Han Solo, known only as Han until being given the surname Solo, was a human male smuggler and hero of the Alliance to Restore the Republic. He rose from an impoverished childhood to become captain of the Millennium Falcon, a leader in the Rebel Alliance and an instrumental figure in the Galactic Civil War during the reign of the Galactic Empire. Although he did not believe in the Force controlling his destiny, Han came to believe in the cause of galactic freedom, joining Jedi Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia Organa in the fight for the Rebellion. Following the war, Han and Leia welcomed a son, Ben Solo, who became the dark knight Kylo Ren after being corrupted by the dark side of the Force. Although their relationship floundered, Leia hoped that Han, as Ben's father, could find a way to break the dark side's hold on their son. Han Solo became legendary across the galaxy as both a smuggler and war hero of the Rebellion.

As a young man fighting for survival on the mean streets of Corellia, Han yearned to fly among the stars with dreams of becoming the galaxy's best pilot. With a fellow scrumrat named Qi'ra, Han lived as a street thief with Corellia's notorious White Worms gang until an important deal with Lady Proxima went bad, causing Han to flee Corellia. He was given the full name "Han Solo" by an Imperial recruitment officer while entering the Imperial Academy. He became known as Cadet 124-329 while serving as an Imperial cadet, and was eventually assigned to the 224th Imperial Armored Division. On Mimban, Han met the thief Tobias Beckett and wound up deserting the Empire and joining his crew to steal unrefined coaxium from Kessel in order to pay a debt to Dryden Vos, a kingpin with the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. By the end of this scheme, during which he reunited with Qi'ra, Han was forced to kill his mentor Beckett after a brutal double-cross. Han also became rivals and close friends with fellow smuggler Lando Calrissian and the Wookiee Chewbacca, the latter who became his best friend. Calrissian owned the Millennium Falcon, a fast ship with which Han made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs and won from Lando in a game of sabacc.

With only Chewbacca remaining at his side, as his trusted copilot who swore a life debt to the Corellian smuggler, Han Solo embarked on a smuggling career under the employ of Jabba the Hutt, a notorious gangster and crime lord of Tatooine. After ditching a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Empire, Solo owed a great deal of money to Jabba, who then placed a bounty on the smuggler's head, as a result. His fortune seemed to have changed when Han and Chewbacca were hired to charter Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO to Alderaan, avoiding Imperial stormtroopers who were searching for Luke's droids. However, as they find Alderaan destroyed by the Empire's new superweapon, the Death Star, Solo became caught up in the rebellion against the Empire, rescuing Princess Leia Organa, delivering the stolen Death Star plans to the hidden Rebel base on Yavin 4, and saved Luke from the Sith Lord Darth Vader in the Battle of Yavin, allowing Skywalker to destroy the Death Star. Solo fought with the Rebellion for a number of years afterward, taking part in numerous operations and battles against the Empire.

After the Battle of Hoth, Solo sought refuge with Organa—with whom he had fallen in love—Chewbacca, and C-3PO on Cloud City, which was operated by his old friend Lando Calrissian. There, they were captured by Darth Vader as part of a trap to bait Skywalker to the city. Solo was frozen in carbonite and taken to Jabba's Palace on Tatooine by the bounty hunter Boba Fett, where he remained encased in carbonite for months until he was rescued by his friends. After returning to the Alliance Fleet, Solo was promoted to the rank of general and was given command of the Pathfinders, a special forces squad, for the Battle of Endor. Solo led the Pathfinders to Endor, where he, Organa, Chewbacca, and the special forces team, with the help of the native Ewoks, destroyed the shield generator protecting the second Death Star that was being constructed in orbit. Their actions allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the superweapon.

The Battle of Endor, which saw the deaths of Emperor Sheev Palpatine and Darth Vader, allowed the Rebellion to form the New Republic. In the early days after Endor, Solo continued to lead the Pathfinders against the Empire. He married Organa, and the two had a son, Ben Solo. The boy struggled with the dark side of the Force—like his mother, who was the daughter of Darth Vader and twin sister of Luke Skywalker, Ben was Force-sensitive—so Organa sent him to be trained as a Jedi by Skywalker. Ben was seduced to the dark side by Snoke, Supreme Leader of the First Order, resulting in the destruction of Skywalker's attempt to rebuild the Jedi Order.

Having lost their son, Solo left and returned to smuggling, and even lost the Millennium Falcon to numerous thieves. He continued to smuggle until he was brought back into the fight by a scavenger named Rey and a defected First Order stormtrooper named Finn, who carried with them a droid, BB-8, that had part of a map to Skywalker's location. Solo, who retrieved the Falcon from Rey and Finn, returned to Organa, who led the Resistance against the First Order, and fought in the battle to destroy the First Order superweapon known as Starkiller Base. During the battle, Solo saw his son, who had taken the name Kylo Ren, and tried to convince him to return home. Instead, Ren stabbed his father with his lightsaber. Mortally wounded, Solo fell to his death in the bowels of the Starkiller weapon. However, Solo's heroic memory survived and his spirit remained alive and appeared in a Force vision a year later to convince Ren to abandon the dark side and defeat the resurrected Darth Sidious, after a duel on the remains of the second Death Star between Rey and Ren, being enough for Ben Solo to return and eventually sacrifice his own life to help Rey end Sidious and the Sith for good.

Biography
Early life
Childhood
"Han, my boy, when you grow up, don't build ships like me. You're meant for better. You're meant to fly them."
―Ovan, to his son, Han[22]
Han as a child
Han as a child

Han was born in a rough-and-tumble favela on the planet Corellia during the waning years of the Galactic Republic in 32 BBY.[2] Sometime after he became famous, it would be rumored by a Snivvian bounty hunter that Han was actually a descendant of the Prince-Admiral Jonashe Solo, a member of the ancient Corellian royalty.[23] During his formative years,[9] his father Ovan[8] worked in the Corellian Engineering Corporation shipyards, building vessels such as YT-1300 light freighters until he was laid off. Solo's father wished he could leave Corellia on such a ship, but was never able to afford to. According to Han, he was never close with his father.[9] At one point his father brought him to the freighter factory where he worked and pointed out to the young Han that the ships being built there were his contributions to the galaxy, but that they ultimately didn't matter. He advised him that he wasn't meant to build ships, but rather to fly them.[24] Eventually, his father abandoned him.[12] At some point he met the Ithorian Pjolan.[25]

Working for the White Worms
"Why did you do that, Han? You could've gotten yourself killed. For nothing."
"You're right, Qi'ra. That's the way it is. No one's ever gonna help anyone unless it gets them something. Hell, I noticed you didn't exactly lend a hand. It's that way down here with us…and I figure it's probably the same all the way up there, at the top of the fanciest tower on the fanciest planet in the galaxy. But today, for a few minutes, for that kid…that's not how it was. Maybe it doesn't always have to be this way, you know? I guess that's what I was thinking. Maybe it could be different. You gotta start somewhere."
―Qi'ra and Han[26]
Han and Qi'ra
Han and Qi'ra

Around 24 BBY, Han joined the White Worms criminal gang as a scrumrat.[13] Here, Han met fellow scrumrat Qi'ra.[9] Despite being in service to the gang, Han showed considerable defiance towards them and their methods. One day, he intervened as a smaller child was attacked by a group of bullies, which led to Han getting beaten as well. Afterwards, Qi'ra asked Han why he helped the child despite not getting anything in return. Han answered that while that might be how the galaxy works, it did not always have to be that way.[26]

When Han was about the age of eighteen, Han and Qi'ra were vying for the position of Head within the White Worms. During their respective assignments, Han and Qi'ra both failed to deliver as promised, leading them to be hunted down by factions such as the White Worms, the Kaldana Syndicate, as well as the Empire. Han had acquired a datacube with plans for a shield generator that was desired by all the factions. Han and Qi'ra had no choice but to partner up to find a resolution to their problems. Eventually, Qi'ra became Head thanks to Han's recommendation to Lady Proxima. As they later ate together, Han asked if he and Qi'ra were on their first date. Qi'ra denied it, but acknowledged the possibility that it could happen someday.[24] Sometime later, Han and Qi'ra began a romantic relationship.[9]

Escaping Corellia
"Han, this... this could work."
"This is gonna work. Qi'ra, you always said one day we're gonna get out of here. This is it."
―Qi'ra and Han[9]
Acting under orders from Lady Proxima, Han set up a deal with some individuals to exchange coaxium for credits. Qi'ra suggested that Han shouldn't go alone, but both Proxima and Han disagreed with her. Upon meeting with the individuals, Han got into a fight with them due to having not abided by their stated terms and proceeded to escape with an extremely valuable vial of coaxium, as well as a speeder. Han fled the criminals on his M-68 landspeeder through the streets of Coronet City. He drove through a bridge and hung his dice on the windscreen.[9]

Han confronts Lady Proxima
Han confronts Lady Proxima

Upon arriving at the Den of the White Worms, he and the other Scrumrats were herded by Lady Proxima's enforcers into her underground chamber. Three children fought over stolen items they had pickpocketed. Han and Qi'ra embraced each other in a tunnel. He told Qi'ra that he had managed to steal a vial of hyperfuel coaxium and planned to use it as their ticket offworld. Moloch, Syke, and Rebolt soon caught up with them and brought Han before Lady Proxima, who asked Han for a progress report. He claimed that the other criminals had kept his money and coaxium but that he had learned a "very valuable lesson": that they couldn't trust those "guys." Lady Proxima was furious that Han had come back with nothing from his errand. Rebolt beat Han with a stick. A defiant Han grabbed Rebolt's stick and said that he would beat those who beat him. Moloch raised his blaster at Han but Qi'ra stopped him. Lady Proxima warned Qi'ra not to disobey her. Han pulled out a rock and claimed to have a thermal detonator but Proxima was not fooled. Han revealed that it was a bluff and hurled the rock through the ceiling, letting in a beam of sunlight. Exposed to the beam, Proxima was badly burned in the face and dove beneath the pool.[9]

Han and Qi'ra escape through Coronet City
Han and Qi'ra escape through Coronet City

Han and Qi'ra escaped in Han's stolen M-68 landspeeder and raced out of the White Worms' den into the streets of Coronet. Han's plan was to drive to Coronet Spaceport with the stolen coaxium and use it to bribe their way offworld. Han vowed to be a pilot and see the galaxy. Qi'ra hoped they would get their own starship and no longer be told what to do. The pair were soon pursued by Moloch's A-A4B truckspeeder, which was also carrying two Corellian hounds. Moloch rammed his truckspeeder against Han's landspeeder. After narrowly avoiding a truck, Han drove through an Imperial checkpoint. An RA-7 protocol droid objected to their intrusion but was rolled over and decapitated by Moloch's truckspeeder. When Qi'ra said that Moloch was fast, Han reassured her that they were faster. Han's landspeeder and Moloch's truckspeeder were pursued by an Imperial patrol trooper riding a C-PH patrol speeder bike. However, the rider crashed into a barrier. Han and Qi'ra drove through a factory with Moloch hot on their tail. Han managed to escape Moloch's truck by driving the landspeeder through a tight corner. With the landspeeder stuck, Moloch dispatched Rebolt and the Corellian hounds after them.[9]

Serving under the Galactic Empire
Recruitment
"This is where I sign up to be a pilot, right?"
"If you apply for the Imperial Navy, but most recruits go into the infantry."
"I'm gonna be a pilot. Best in the galaxy."
―Han, and Drawd Munbrin[9]
Drawd Munbrin gives Han the surname 'Solo'
Drawd Munbrin gives Han the surname 'Solo'

Han and Qi'ra managed to reach the Coronet spaceport on foot. There was a strong Imperial military presence at the spaceport, where there were long queues offworld. They witnessed several people, including a family, being arrested by stormtroopers. Han and Qi'ra joined a queue. Qi'ra was worried about being trafficked by the Crimson Dawn, but Han vowed to protect her. Since they didn't have identification, Han and Qi'ra used the coaxium vial to bribe the Imperial Emigration Officer Falthina Sharest into letting them through the customs booth. After depositing the coaxium, Han managed to cross through.[9]

Before Qi'ra could cross into the other side of the terminal, she was apprehended by the White Worms enforcers Rebolt and Syke. Qi'ra told Han to flee, and he vowed to return for her. Han managed to evade Imperial forces and the White Worms by donning a stolen hat and hiding behind several crates. He witnessed more people being arrested by stormtroopers. Lacking sufficient funds to travel offworld, Han found an Imperial Military recruiting post. Han spoke to the Imperial recruitment officer Drawd Munbrin and volunteered to join the Imperial Navy as a pilot. Since Han lacked a surname and family, he dubbed him "Han Solo" in the absence of a surname. Approving Han's application, he told Han to proceed to Transport ID-83 to the Imperial Flight Academy on Carida, promising Han that he would be flying in no time.[9]

Life as an Imperial cadet
"TIE fighters. Now we're talking--"
―Han Solo when he arrives at the Carida Academy[27]
Han arrives at the Carida Academy.
Han arrives at the Carida Academy.

When Han enlisted, Drawd Munbrin assigned Han to the Imperial academy on the planet Carida. When Han arrived, droids stripped all his clothing off. Right after, different droids gave him his new Imperial cadet suit and also shaved him. Han entered a room filled with many other cadets. Here a female Imperial officer named Triosa Broog was speaking over them. Soon after, he tried to greet a cadet, who told Han to shut up. Han realized that when he said shut up, he used Han's cadet name, and you were only known as numbers at the Imperial Academy. Later, Han was practicing on a battlefield as an Imperial Army trooper and wondered how this was supposed to help him in pilot training. Broog overheard Han. Han then raised his hand, and Broog called him a Corellian worm. Broog asked what his name was. They had a short conversation about his name. Broog then suggested to the other cadets that they show Han how basic training is supposed to help flying by hiking up a mountain twice.[27]

Stormtroopers surround Han after crashing the TIE fighter.
Stormtroopers surround Han after crashing the TIE fighter.

Immediately after, the cadets started to beat Han up. During this, cadet 404-913,[27] named Beilert Valance,[11] began to insult Han before cadet 803-308 told them to let him go. Han thanked her for the help and asked for the name of the cadet but refused to say. Right after, two cadets, Lyttan Dree and Tamu Dree, were talking about why they joined the Empire. They also asked Han why he had signed up, with Solo simply replying that he had to get off Corellia. Lyttan and Tamu said that he would never learn how to fly at the academy and that they might send him to a wretched place like Urthak or Mimban. Han was thinking about what they said and thought that he should do something deeply stupid. Han then snuck into a TIE fighter hanger and stole a fighter. Han eventually crashed the TIE, leading to stormtroopers surrounding Han at the crash site.[27]

After the crash Han was imprisoned. He eventually got out because of his great piloting skills. Fourteen days later, Nico, who was cadet 803-308, was one of the top of the leader board. Suddenly Han came upon Lyttan and Tamu, who were surprised about Nico topping the leader board. Lyttan and Tamu were surprised that Han survived the crash. The cadets had started a bet about Solo's fate, with one of the Dree brothers winning.[28]

Soon after, Han was bullied by 404-913, who started a fight with Han. Eventually Han was beaten, and Valance went to hurt Lyttan and Tamu, but Han kicked Valance in the crotch before he could do so. Han then smashed Valance in his face with a food tray. Valance was about to punch Han in the face, but before he could, Imperial troopers arrived and asked what was going on. but they told a lie instead of what really happened. Han suggested that Valance and Han should start over. Han told Valance his name, but Valance refused to give his. He said to look on the leader board to find out. Han looked and saw that Valance was the top one on the board. Soon after, Han said he could not believe that the academy let Valance actually become the top one. Nico came up behind Han and said she wondered how long he would last. She was also surprised that Han survived the crash. Tamu then told Han that there was no way Han was moving to top of the leader board. Han disagreed.[28]

Han saves Tamu Dree during training.
Han saves Tamu Dree during training.

Later during flight school, Han asked the instructor if there would be flying at any point. It took time, but eventually Han entered the cockpit of a TIE fighter. He made it to third place on the leader board. During a another flight class, the teacher Yurib Nakan, told the class to work in pairs and destroy a cannon's shield. Han and Tamu were partners for this exercise. Tamu's fighter was damaged, and Han saved him. When the training was over, Lyttan thanked Han for saving his brother's life. Soon after, a cadet came to Lyttan and said that he broke off before he could get a shot. Yurib then said that everyone failed the training. Han's actions of saving a cadet could have given Han a chance to become the best pilot the Galactic Empire had ever seen, but Han's fellow cadets might kill Han before he could do so. Solo claimed they should have earned partial credit since the team worked together.[28]

Solo and the other cadets were ordered to make soup for the all the cadets. During the night, Solo snuck out of his bunk and cleaned the floors in the refresher, but logged Valance as having done all the assignments. As a result, the next morning, Solo and the other cadets were assigned to the Quasar Fire-class carrier cruiser 07200823 by Yurib. Their orders were to transport several TIE fighter pilots. During the voyage, Solo was able to modify the cruiser's speed to give him and the cadets a day off. Solo also revealed he had day passes and told them there was a Pantolomin cruiser nearby they could visit and gave them civilian clothes. Despite Nico's objections, Solo was able to convince them to leave the cruiser.[25]

Pjolan pulls a blaster on Solo.
Pjolan pulls a blaster on Solo.

Aboard the cruiser, Solo told his fellow cadets to have some fun. Solo played sabacc with Nico and attempted to learn her reasons for joining the Imperial Navy. Nico refused to tell him why and deduced how Solo pulled off the excursion. She also noticed him eyeing an Ithorian. Solo was soon left to himself and met up with Pjolan. Solo attempted to drink an Ithorian ale to no avail. Han also asked Pjolan about Qi'ra. Pjolan said nothing, indicating that Qi'ra was still alive, but told Solo that Lady Proxima had a 200-credit bounty on him, so he pulled a blaster on Han. He was saved by Nico, and the two of them went to get Lyttan and Tamu. Pjolan attempted to collect Solo's bounty, but Solo was able to inform Black Sun, the cruiser's owners, about Pjolan, and the cartel captured him. Solo and the other cadets were allowed to leave with their thanks. Solo and the others were able to return cruiser 07200823 to Carida's academy. Upon their return, they were reinstated to full flight status. Later, the cadets were told by Yurib to come to the training room the next evening.[25]

After Solo completed his training he was stationed on the[11] planet[29] Qhulosk, where he became part of Carida Squadron and was sent to fight a battle for the Empire at Howlan. During the battle, Valance was shot down by native Qhuloskians, but the skirmish resulted in an Imperial victory. Yurib ordered the squadron to return to base. Solo refused and wanted to help Valance. Yurib responded that Valance was gone and told Solo to abort. Three enemy fighters came and fired at Carida Squadron, killing one of the TIEs. Eventually, the squadron defeated the fighters and fled back to base. When they arrived, Solo spoke to Yurib about why he could not save Valance. Yurib said that TIE bombers would wipe out the entire city soon and there was no time to rescue Valance. Solo became mad and set off to rescue Valance alone. Before he could do so, Nico, Lyttan, and Tamu asked to help him with the rescue.[11]

Han Solo, Imperial Navy cadet
Han Solo, Imperial Navy cadet

Per the plan, Yurib sent a bombing run to the city. One officer recognized that six people had left the base and six speeders were also missing. The officer revealed this to Yurib, but Yurib didn't respond. During the rescue, Solo, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were being shot at by Qhuloskians. The Imperial bombing run sent by Yurib almost killed them all but destroyed one of their speeders. When they reached Valance, Valance almost shot Solo. Valance then said to Solo that he couldn't believe that the Empire sent them to rescue him, but Solo said that they had chosen to rescue him. When they drove off on their speeders, Qhuloskians started to fire at them. Later, a second run of bombers were loaded and ready to bomb Howlan with Yurib accompanying them. Han, Valance, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were captured. Right before they were killed by the Qhuloskians, Ghulars opened fire on the aggressive aliens. The Ghulars were slaves to the Qhuloskians to mine for farium to make the Qhuloskians' ships stronger during battle. Afterwards, the Ghulars escaped the planet by taking escape pods from a crashed Qhuloskian warship. When they left, Nico began crying that her home planet in the Huru system was under mining control and her friend Weegee was a miner there. She became very angry and kicked one of their bikes. Han then realized that one escape pod was left and decided to fake Nico's death. When Nico left, Han, Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan then left for the base, being chased and fired at by Qhuloskian ships. They then were destroyed by Yurib in the lead TIE, and Howlan was completely bombed and destroyed.[29]

Later, Solo had to say goodbye to Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan at the base, and Solo was put into the brig.[29]

At some point his skills at flying at the Imperial academy at Carida became the only thing preventing his superiors from outright expelling him from the academy. Other recruits had tried to emulate his flying moves, but at least one recruit nearly died in a failed attempt. Broog vouched for Han to her commanding officer, Captain Nettic Whain, asking that he be given one more chance to fall into line. Finally, during an attack by raiders on Onyx Squadron, Han disobeyed orders once more in order to save the life of Cadet Lyttan Dree. Solo was able to take out three raiders before crashing into a hangar. Unfortunately, Solo's crash destroyed the hangar and dozens of astromechs. This action led to him being court-martialed and tried by Commodore Almudin.[30] Solo was expelled from the academy,[12] drafted into the 224th Imperial Armored Division as a Corporal,[13] and deployed to an active combat zone on Mimban.[9]

The Mimban campaign
"I saved him, at least that's what he says, the big fuzzy fool, but really, he saved me. I was on a bad path, and Chewie, he put me straight. Saved my shanks more than once too."
―Han Solo on how Chewbacca saved him[31]
Han Solo in his Mudtrooper gear on Mimban
Han Solo in his Mudtrooper gear on Mimban

After three years of Imperial service, Han had been expelled from the Carida Flight Academy for insubordination and was serving as a Mudtrooper Corporal during a battle on the planet Mimban. Solo's 224th Imperial Armored Division was locked in trench warfare against the Mimbanese Liberation Army, enduring heavy casualties in the torrid, muddy weather. Han took part in a ground assault led by Major Staz to capture a ridge. After Han was thrown to the ground, Staz helped him up and told him they were almost there. Solo was confused, but Staz instructed him to head to the last ridge. Unfortunately, Staz was soon killed by an explosion. Han and some surviving troops, including Private Collum Woslo, Corporal Sharlu Greslin, Corporal Danith Nodar, and Corporal Wesger Odry, gathered in a trench with "Captain" Tobias Beckett, who took command as the most senior officer in the group. Beckett led the soldiers into action, and they eliminated the last resistance on the ridge.[9]

Following the skirmish, Han spoke with "Captain" Beckett, expressing gratitude for his help. Beckett advised him to get away from there as fast as he could. Solo soon encountered Beckett's companions, Val and the Ardennian Rio Durant, who were disguised as Imperial Army troopers. They warned him not to follow them. Lieutenant Alayus Bolandin informed Han and his comrades that they would be moving out to the Southern Marshlands in three hours. When Bolandin requested an advance party, Solo questioned why the Empire was destroying and occupying Mimban, earning the enmity of his commanding officer. Disenchanted with the Empire, Han sought out Beckett and his gang, who were planning a heist. Han recognized them as thieves posing as Imperial Army personnel. Val and Beckett initially wanted to kill Han, but he offered his services as a pilot. When Rio asked what a fancy "fly boy" was doing in the mud, Han claimed he had been kicked out for having a mind of his own. Han pointed out that Rio was an Ardennian. Desperate to escape offworld, Solo tried to blackmail them into allowing him to join their gang by threatening to expose them as infiltrators. However, Beckett turned the tables on him and convinced Lieutenant Bolandin that Solo was attempting to desert. Seeking an opportunity to rid his unit of a "trouble-maker," Bolandin had a chained Solo thrown into a pen where he was condemned to battle a "beast" held in captivity.[9]

Han Solo meets Chewbacca in the mud of Mimban
Han Solo meets Chewbacca in the mud of Mimban

The beast was revealed to be a Wookiee named Chewbacca, whose species had been enslaved by the Empire. Thinking he was a threat, Chewbacca attacked Han and hurled him against the girders and mud. Owing to Han's ability to speak Shyriiwook, Solo convinced Chewbacca that he was a friend. Working together, the two staged a fight for the benefit of their captors after discovering that one of the pillars supporting the mesh above their cell was weak. The unsuspecting sentries laughed and thought that Han was doomed. After several attempts, Han pretended to goad Chewbacca into pushing against the main pillar supporting the mesh, causing it to collapse. After jumping out of harm's way, Chewbacca threw Han out of the pit and followed suit. The two found that they were chained together. Chewbacca wanted to flee the camp, but Han convinced him to accompany him to a nearby airfield. He told Chewbacca to trust him, promising that they could go their separate ways if he chose to do so afterward. Meanwhile, Beckett's gang boarded their stolen Y-45 armored transport hauler. Throwing off his Imperial army helmet and uniform, Rio asked how they could breathe in those stuffy suits. The three took off, but Beckett spotted Han and Chewbacca waving to them below. Rio was impressed by Solo's determination and believed that a Wookiee would be helpful as muscle. Val was opposed, but Rio convinced Beckett to bring the ship down so they could pick up Han and Chewbacca. The five then departed Mimban in the stolen hauler.[9]

Life as a scoundrel
Working with Tobias Beckett
Vandor heist
"Look, I waited a long time for a shot like this. I'm not about to screw it up, all right?"
―Han Solo, to Val[9]
Han Solo in his attire worn for the Vandor heist
Han Solo in his attire worn for the Vandor heist

After Han and Chewbacca's escape from Mimban, Beckett took the transport hauler to the snowy, mountainous world of Vandor. While watching over the snowy mountains from the hauler, Han thanked Chewbacca for saving him, acknowledging that he only survived because of the Wookiee. He shared his plan with Chewbacca, explaining that they would do one job with Beckett's gang in exchange for their freedom. Chewbacca accepted the deal. Han asked Chewbacca for his name and settled on "Chewie," finding it easier to say than his full name in Shyriiwook. Upon landing, Beckett enlisted the two of them for a planned heist to steal a shipment of the hyperfuel refined coaxium from a 20-T Railcrawler conveyex transport on Vandor. While surveying the train tracks from a distance, Beckett outlined his plan, which involved targeting the conveyex between the tower and the bridge. Rio dropped them onto the conveyex, allowing them to separate the payload container and lift it up onto the AT hauler. Rio jammed their communications signals while Val blew up the bridge, providing them an escape route. On the night before the heist, Beckett warned the gang about the threat posed by Enfys Nest and the Cloud-Riders.[9]

While resting by the campfire, Val criticized Beckett for involving Han and Chewbacca, considering them amateurs, questioning why they couldn't have simply hired professionals such as the Xan sisters or Bossk. Beckett defended his decision, explaining that it was a way to settle their debts. During the campfire conversation, Beckett and his associates questioned Han about his motives. Han revealed his plans to become a pilot and return to find Qi'ra. Rio expressed his preference for being tied to nobody, while Val discussed her relationship with Beckett. Solo then asked Chewbacca what he would do with his share of the profits, with Chewbacca responding that he would use it to help the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. Beckett promised Han and Chewbacca that if they followed his instructions, they would have more than enough to buy their own ship, before disassembling one of his blaster pistols into a DL-44 pistol and tossing it over to Han, who gazed down upon his new weapon.[9]

While Rio flew the Y-45 hauler, Han, Chewbacca, and Beckett landed on the cargo wagon carrying coaxium, with Val positioning herself on the bridge. The presence of Beckett and his team soon attracted the attention of Imperial range troopers, leading to an exchange of fire. As the conveyex train maneuvered along a narrow cliff face, Han and Chewie narrowly avoided being crushed against rocks. Working together, they managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rear line. Maintaining communication with Beckett, Rio lowered the "witch cables" onto the coaxium wagon. However, before Beckett's gang could escape with the stolen coaxium, they were attacked by the Cloud-Riders, who rode swoop bikes. Enfys Nest, the leader of the Cloud-Riders, ordered her followers to lower their harpoons. Han and the others evaded blaster fire, and one of the swoop bikes crashed against a rock. Two of the Cloud-Riders boarded the Y-45 hauler and fatally wounded Durant. Solo left Chewbacca to uncouple the wagon from the front train while he went to assist Rio.[9]

Han Solo and Chewbacca assist Tobias Beckett's crew in their heist on Vandor
Han Solo and Chewbacca assist Tobias Beckett's crew in their heist on Vandor

Solo managed to climb aboard the transport hauler and take control of the ship, triggering a security sensor in the process. Val warned Han that Viper probe droids were heading his way. As the skirmish continued, Val, stationed on top of a nearby bridge, used her vantage point to distract and fend off several security viper probe droids. With his dying breath, Durant apologized to Solo for mocking his flying abilities and acknowledged that Val was right in her belief that no one should die alone. Beckett fought Enfys Nest on top of the wagon. However, the conveyex train was rapidly approaching the bridge, and Val realized there wasn't enough time for her to abandon her position without allowing the crew to steal the coaxium wagon. After communicating her change of plans to Beckett via comlink, Val professed her love for him before detonating the bomb, sacrificing herself and destroying the bridge. The destruction of the bridge caused the conveyex to plunge into a deep gorge. In a struggle, Chewbacca managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rest of the train. However, the Cloud-Riders had attached grappling hooks to the wagon, dragging it down. Not wanting to risk the lives of Beckett and Chewbacca, Solo made the difficult decision to let go of the coaxium wagon, which plummeted into the ravine below and exploded. Chewbacca grabbed Beckett, and the two survived by clinging to the cable.[9]

Following the failed heist, Beckett erected a hasty memorial to Val and Rio. Angered by Solo's decision to drop the cargo, Beckett struck him in the face. Beckett revealed he had been ordered to steal the coaxium to repay his debt to Dryden Vos, the leader of the Crimson Dawn criminal syndicate. Han proposed deserting, but Beckett countered that Vos would send out enforcers to hunt down those who had crossed him. Beckett said the only thing they could do was go to Vos and make amends. Han agreed to come along to make things right and exacted a promise from Beckett to pay him and Chewbacca for their services. Chewie agreed to come along.[9]

Meeting Dryden Vos
"I don't believe we've been introduced."
"Yeah. This is Han Solo and Chewbacca. They're with me."
―Dryden Vos, meeting Han Solo and Chewbacca through Tobias Beckett[9]
Han Solo, Tobias Beckett, and Chewbacca meet with Dryden Vos to discuss business
Han Solo, Tobias Beckett, and Chewbacca meet with Dryden Vos to discuss business

Beckett, Han, and Chewie traveled to the outskirts of Fort Ypso, where Vos' yacht, First Light, had arrived. After surrendering their weapons to Captain Aemon Gremm, they entered the public gallery. Beckett's team entered the yacht's hallway. Beckett spoke to Vos' concierge, Margo, seeking an audience with Dryden Vos. She told him that Vos was having an audience with Governor Diles Anevi, whom Vos killed. Captain Gremm informed Vos of Beckett's presence. Beckett advised Han and Chewbacca to keep their eyes down because the people there were not their friends, gesturing to the wealthy people around them, eating and drinking the most expensive, tasty, and quality food available. Han soon had an unexpected reunion with Qi'ra, who now worked for Vos. The two drank together while reminiscing about their past and ambitions. Beckett soon arrived with Vos, who introduced himself to Solo and shook his hand, as he then did with Chewie. Vos suggested they go to his office to discuss business privately.[9]

After exchanging pleasantries, Vos chastised Beckett for underestimating Enfys Nest and told Beckett to give him a reason not to kill them. Since the few available stocks of coaxium were in Imperial hands, Han proposed stealing unrefined coaxium from Kessel, where the Pyke Syndicate ran a mining operation. Vos was unwilling to jeopardize his syndicate's business relations with the Pykes, and consequentially gestured for his guards to kill Solo, Beckett, and Chewie. However, Han and Beckett informed him that they had no alliance with the Pykes, and taking on the operation themselves would not implicate Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra was supportive of Han's idea but warned that the unstable coaxium had to be brought to a processing facility quickly before it deteriorated. Chewbacca suggested Savareen since it was not under Imperial control. Vos approved of the plan but sent Qi'ra along with them. Before they left, Vos reminded them that he would be forced to execute them if they were to fail him again. In the turbolift, Beckett said he could provide the gear for the mission, before asking if Qi'ra knew where to find a ship.[9]

Visit to the Lodge
"Captain Lando Calrissian."
"Han Solo. Looks like you're having a good day."
"I'm a lucky guy."
―Lando Calrissian, and Han Solo's first meeting[9]
Lando Calrissian, the captain of the Millennium Falcon.
Lando Calrissian, the captain of the Millennium Falcon.

Knowing that they would need a fast ship for the Kessel heist, Qi'ra took Solo and his companions to the Lodge at nearby Fort Ypso. There, she introduced the team to Lando Calrissian, an accomplished smuggler and pilot who had supposedly won his ship in a game of sabacc. Solo walked past many established scoundrels and bounty hunters, such as Boba Fett and Dengar, unaware that they would become a key part of his life in the future. After walking past two dueling droids, Solo and the rest of the crew eventually found Lando playing sabacc with several alien patrons. Against Qi'ra and Chewbacca's advice, Han challenged Lando to a game of sabacc, seeking to win his ship. Han won the first round and collected several credits. While Han and Lando were playing, the Cloud-Rider Weazel spied on them. Han agreed to a second round and placed a wager on Lando's ship, reputed to be the fastest in the galaxy, whilst Lando did the same for the ship Han claimed to have. Unbeknownst to Han, Lando had a card hidden up his sleeve, which he uses to win the game, ultimately humiliating Han in front of Qi'ra.[9]

Han Solo and Chewbacca see the Millennium Falcon for the first time.
Han Solo and Chewbacca see the Millennium Falcon for the first time.

Following the game, an enraged Solo questioned how Lando could have possibly had a specific card without cheating. Calrissian called out to Han questioning where his ship was, before being interrupted by Qi'ra. Lando complimented her, stating that she looked as beautiful as ever, before speaking further with her regarding their upcoming heist on Kessel. Calrissian requested half the profits, which Solo deemed to be ridiculous, before Beckett arrived and negotiated it down to 25 percent. Lando agreed, knowing that Beckett was responsible for killing the bounty hunter Aurra Sing during a skirmish. Han and his companions soon encountered Lando's droid co-pilot, L3-37, who had a female programming and was an avowed droid rights advocate. L3-37 objected to the droid fighting pits at the Lodge and picked a fight with the owner Ralakili, who objected to her trying to stop his droids from fighting. However, Lando intervened and convinced her to let him go. Despite L3-37's misgivings about the newcomer, Lando and the others set out for Lando's ship, which had been impounded. After L3-37 cut a hole through the gate, Lando showed Han and his companions his ship, the Millennium Falcon. Lando had refurbished the ship, including installing an escape pod and wet bar. Beckett agreed to remove the gravity lock in return for taking five percent off Lando's cut, reducing it to 20 percent. Lando reluctantly agreed to Beckett's deal. As the Falcon disembarked, Weazel informed Enfys Nest that they had planted a homing beacon on the ship. Enfys gambled that if they survived, they would bring the price to them.[9]

Infiltration on Kessel
"This is a precision job. Thermal vault will be on the lowest level. Down where it's warm. The only way we're gonna pull this off, is if everybody plays their part. Stick to the plan. Do not improvise."
―Tobias Beckett, to Han Solo and the rest of the crew[9]
While traveling aboard the Falcon, Han told Lando that he recognized the ship as a YT-1300 light freighter because his father had worked at a CEC plant before he got laid off. Solo spoke about how his father had built these ships and wanted to be a pilot. Lando questioned how close Solo was with his father, though Han remarked that he never really was, which Lando understood, having the same feelings towards his own father. L3-37 soon arrived and ushered Solo out of the co-pilot seat. Han and Qi'ra smiled at one another whilst L3 complained in the background. Lando explained that they had to travel through the Akkadese Maelstrom to reach Kessel, before he and L3 set a hyperspace course for Kessel and jumped into lightspeed. Meanwhile, Beckett played dejarik with Chewbacca. Beckett used one of his pieces to take out one of Chewbacca's pieces, angering the Wookiee who slammed his fists on the hologram set. Beckett schooled Chewbacca that he had to think a few steps ahead. Han asked if they had seen Qi'ra, but Beckett replied that people were predictable.[9]

Han and Qi'ra embrace each other for the first time in years.
Han and Qi'ra embrace each other for the first time in years.

Han walked to Calrissian's cape closet where he found Qi'ra trying on a blue cape. Qi'ra asked Han about his plan for Kessel. Though Han wanted to ask her about her experiences following their separation on Corellia, Qi'ra tried to change the subject. Han gave Qi'ra a passionate kiss, and the two embraced. Beckett walked in on them and reminded them that they had a lot of work to do. In private, Beckett told Han that he was making a big mistake by trusting Qi'ra. He told Han that he and Chewbacca would make a good crew but that it would not work with Qi'ra. Beckett advised Han to trust nobody and to assume that everyone would betray him. Han thought of it as a lonely way to live, though Beckett said it was the only way.[9]

As they approached Kessel, Beckett briefed the team about their plan to reach the thermal vault where the coaxium was stored. He warned everyone to stick to the plan. The Falcon landed in a clearing at the base of the mine where they were greeted by several Pykes, including Capo Quay Tolsite. Qi'ra posed as the slaver Oksana Floren, Deputy Assistant to the Vice Admiral of the Federation of Trade Route Allocation and Monetization. Han and Chewbacca posed as slaves while Beckett posed as a helmeted "security attache." L3-37 posed as a servant droid. "Floren" met with Capo Tolsite and offered to trade the Federation's slaves in return for the Pyke Syndicate's spice. One of the Pyke sentinels forced Chewbacca and Han Solo to their knees with a pike and inspected them. Tolsite sent Han and Chewbacca to be clipped. Before leaving, Qi'ra then punched Han in the gut but discreetly passed him his lucky charm. Qi'ra, L3-37, and Beckett accompanied the Pykes into Tolsite's control room while Han and Chewie were led into the mines. Moments later, Han and Chewie were beaten by their Pyke captors, though they soon turned the tables on their guards as the camera feed faded. Han knocked out his guard, but Chewie ended up pulling the arms off his captors, which Han complained about, stating that the suit would have fit him perfectly.[9]

The actions of Han Solo and Chewbacca inspired an uprising amongst slaves, allowing the pair the perfect opportunity to escape
The actions of Han Solo and Chewbacca inspired an uprising amongst slaves, allowing the pair the perfect opportunity to escape

Han eventually found a new suit and, alongside Chewbacca, mingled among the slaves and guards. L3-37 and Qi'ra directed Han and Chewbacca to the thermal vault. As they approached the vaults, Chewbacca broke off to free a Wookiee slave named Sagwa. Han passed Chewie a pike, which he used to attack the Pyke guards beating Sagwa. Following Beckett's directions, Han reached the vault and incapacitated the guard. After L3-37 unlocked the vault, Han stole 12 unrefined coaxium canisters. Han struggled to push a sled carrying the canisters but was noticed by the Pyke guards. Chewbacca came to the rescue and took out the guards with his pike. Sagwa and Chewie helped Han push out the canisters.[9]

Lando exited the Millennium Falcon to join the battle as Han and the rest of the team fought their way out with the liberated slaves and droids. While Chewbacca and Sagwa loaded the coaxium canisters aboard the Falcon, Han and the others exchanged fire with Pyke sentries, who had brought a sonic cannon. Before they could leave, L3 was fatally damaged by gunfire. A grieving Lando came to the aid of the dying L3-37, who succumbed to systems failure. Lando was hit, and Han came to his aid, driving the sentries away. A slave named Tak led the slaves to safety. Chewbacca embraced Sagwa before leaving with Han and Lando. Chewbacca carried a wounded Lando aboard the Falcon while Qi'ra took out the Pykes' sonic cannon with a grenade, causing an inferno. While a distraught Lando cradled a disintegrating L3, Beckett ordered Han to get them out of Kessel. Han then flew the Falcon out of the mine into the skies of Kessel.[9]

The Kessel Run
"It's an easy equation. We simply don't have enough time to get to Savareen before the canisters explode!"
"Just have to find a faster route."
"There isn't one! You can't make the Kessel Run in less than 20 parsecs."
"Watch me."
―Lando Calrissian and Han Solo[9]
Han Solo during the Kessel Run
Han Solo during the Kessel Run

While Lando mourned the loss of L3-37, Qi'ra volunteered as Han's co-pilot. They were joined by Chewbacca while Beckett sealed the hidden storage compartment containing the coaxium. As they approached the Akkadese Maelstrom, Lando warned them that they had to hurry due to the volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium. The Falcon soon encountered an Imperial Star Destroyer, which had exited hyperspace in response to the rebellion on Kessel. Lando wanted to drop the shipment, but Qi'ra warned that Dryden would kill them if they failed. Seeking to recover the Falcon's stolen coaxium cargo, the Star Destroyer dispatched several TIE fighters and heavy fighters in pursuit of the freighter. Han flew the Falcon around the Star Destroyer, and the Imperial TIE fighters gave chase. Due to the highly volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium, Lando estimated that completion of the Kessel run was impossible before the fuel detonated - the conventional route having never been done in less than twenty parsecs. Han proposed taking a shortcut through the maelstrom, which Lando regarded as suicidal. Han convinced Lando to download L3's neural cords, which contained her navigational data, into the Falcon's systems.[9]

Han took the Falcon and its TIE pursuers through the dangerous storm clouds of the Akkadese Maelstrom while Beckett manned the ship's ventral laser cannon, taking out two TIE fighters. However, a third fighter managed to evade Beckett's laser cannon and inflicted damage on the top of the Falcon's hull, causing Lando to fall. Han rolled the Falcon, striking the TIE fighter with its side and sending it into an asteroid. More TIE fighters continued the pursuit, prompting Han to state they needed to divert power to the rear shield generator. Chewbacca did so, causing Han to ask when he learned to fly. Chewbacca responded that he was 190 years old. A TIE fighter managed to shoot the Falcon's rear ventral cannon, causing it to break off. Han flew the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom with the TIE hot on his tail. Mimicking a move copied from a Corellian street racer, Han got Chewbacca to deploy the landing gear as the Falcon scraped against the surface of an asteroid. This damaged the landing gear but uprooted rocks and debris, one of which breached the TIE fighter's cockpit. Han then took the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom. Meanwhile, Lando and Qi'ra managed to retrieve L3's internal processor. Beckett observed the coaxium vials becoming more unstable and alerted the others. Lando and Qi'ra managed to install L3's processor into the Falcon's systems.[9]

As they reached the Maw Cluster, L3 constructed a model of the Akkadese Maelstrom and warned them that they were approaching a massive summa-verminoth. The Falcon soon found itself face to face with the monster. The crew tried to escape the monster but ended up arriving at a large gravity well, which Lando identified as the Maw. Thinking fast, Han ejected the Falcon's escape pod into the well for the summa-verminoth to follow, which took the bait. Guiding the ship's systems, L3 found a way out 90 degrees to the left. However, the Falcon was trapped in the gravity well. Qi'ra and Lando convinced the rest of the team to inject a drop of coaxium into the fusion core to give them the kick needed to escape the gravity well. Carrying out their plan, Beckett retrieved a drop of coaxium. Meanwhile, the verminoth was pulled into the Maw and ripped apart. At Solo's command, Beckett boosted the ship's fusion core with a drop of coaxium, which briefly supercharged the engines. Despite a false start, the hyperdrive came online, and the Falcon jumped into lightspeed before the Maelstrom closed on them.[9]

Savareen
"You were wrong about one thing, I was paying attention. You told Chewie people are predictable. You're no exception."
―Han Solo to Tobias Beckett[9]
Dryden accuses Han of giving him fake coaxium.
Dryden accuses Han of giving him fake coaxium.

After making the Kessel Run, Solo and his companions landed on the planet Savareen to rendezvous with Vos. As the Falcon approached the Bis Refinery, Solo radioed the air traffic controller Dhowar Repareed, warning that he was coming with a cargo of coaxium that needed to be offloaded immediately. The damaged Falcon circled the coastal refinery before landing on a landing pad. Due to its damaged landing gear, the Falcon was lopsided. As the coaxium was offloaded, Solo quipped that he had made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs with some generous rounding. Han put his arm around an un-amused Lando, who was grieving over the loss of L-3 and was furious at the damage to his ship. He told Han that he would be waiting aboard his quarters for his share of the money and vowed not to see him again.[9]

Han found Qi'ra at a bar in the nearby Pnakotic Coast village and asked when Vos was coming. Qi'ra reassured him that he would get paid for doing his job. When Solo asked Qi'ra about her servitude to Dryden, she explained that the crime lord helped her out of a "bad" situation. He asked how long it would take her to pay off her debt. Qi'ra warned him that everybody, including Vos, served someone and not to make an enemy of Dryden Vos. Han said he could take care of himself and was no longer the "kid" she knew on Corellia. When Qi'ra asked who he was, Han said he was an outlaw. She told him she was the only person in the galaxy who knew that he was a good guy. Han disagreed and said he was a terrible person. Beckett reminded the two about the coaxium.[9]

While walking through the village, Han and his companions noticed that much of it lay in ruins and that the inhabitants were impoverished. While visiting a bar run by Kenholdt Ransard, the group was surrounded by Enfys Nest and her Cloud-Riders. Han tried to lift his blaster out of his holster, but Beckett counseled him not to. Solo attempted to intimidate the Cloud-Riders by claiming to have a complement of armed mercenaries aboard the Millennium Falcon. However, Lando took off aboard the Falcon, leaving Han and his companions behind. Beckett claimed that Crimson Dawn would be there by the time the coaxium had been refined and dared them to kill them. Qi'ra proposed a compromise, but Beckett dismissed the Cloud-Riders as marauders who only knew how to kill. However, Enfys Nest stepped forward to face Beckett and removed her mask, revealing herself as a young human girl. She walked past a shocked Beckett and told them that she needed a drink.[9]

Inside the bar, Enfys told Han and his companions how the Crimson Dawn originated from a band of mercenaries who plundered a planet. When the inhabitants rebelled, the mercenaries responded by cutting off the tongues of every last man, woman, and child. Enfys explained that she and the Cloud-Riders were from populations who had been terrorized by the Crimson Dawn and the other Five Crime Syndicates. She warned Han and his companions that the Crimson Dawn would use the stolen coaxium to plunder more systems. When Han asked what the Cloud-Riders would use the coaxium for, she told them that they needed the coaxium for their rebel cause.[9]

Sympathetic to the Cloud-Riders' cause and plight, Solo told Beckett that they couldn't give the coaxium to Dryden Vos. Beckett didn't care and asked Solo if he had a plan. Solo said he had a plan to get their money without giving up the coaxium. Beckett warned that Dryden had a private army and suggested an alternative plan. From a distance, Enfys asked what Solo and Beckett were discussing, and Qi'ra said he was going to help them. After their meeting, Beckett invited Solo to come with him, but Han declined the offer. Before leaving, Beckett told Han that he was going to Tatooine, where a big-shot gangster was recruiting a crew for a job. Beckett saw it as an opportunity to pay off his debts.[9]

Dealing with Dryden
When Dryden Vos landed on his yacht First Light by the Pnakotic Coast, Han, along with Qi'ra and Chewbacca, went to deliver the purportedly "fake" coaxium canisters to the Crimson Dawn crime lord. Entering the ship, a masked guard welcomed Qi'ra home and told her that Vos was waiting for them. When he asked about Han and Chewie's weapons, Qi'ra vouched for them. The trio traveled up the turbolift. Han was confident of winning, but Qi'ra said that the trick was surviving rather than winning. Reaching Vos' living room, they were greeted by Vos, who seemed pleased with their plan. Qi'ra claimed that Beckett did not survive while Han claimed that Beckett died saving his life on Kessel. Vos expressed admiration for Beckett's principles and thanked Han and his team for following his example. Qi'ra claimed Han and Chewbacca would make good mercenaries with their own ship. Vos was pleased that his top lieutenant Qi'ra survived.[9]

When Han asked for payment, Vos asked to see the coaxium. Han opened the storage vial and brought out a sample of the processed coaxium. When Vos asked to see one, Han claimed it was volatile but complied when Vos insisted. Vos surprised Solo's team by announcing that the coaxium was fake and revealed that he was aware of Han's plan to sell the real shipment to the Cloud-Riders. Han thought Qi'ra betrayed him, but Vos responded that Qi'ra had a weak spot for Solo. Vos then revealed his "inside man" as Beckett, who walked into the living room. After "apologizing" to Han, Beckett reminded him about his "lesson" not to trust anybody. Beckett ordered Han to surrender while a guard checked the lid. A defiant Han responded that it was too late because Enfys Nest had it. Beckett responded that they had figured that as Captain Aemon Gremm and his Hylobon Enforcers stormed the nearby village, captured the masked "Cloud-Riders," and seized the coaxium containers. Vos asked Qi'ra what to do with the "traitor" Han. Qi'ra responded that she would want to know why and to prove their loyalty by sacrificing something they loved.[9]

One of Vos' guards raised a sword. Beckett said that he tried to warn Han about her. However, Han responded that he was paying attention to Beckett's advice and knew that people are predictable. Meanwhile, the Hylobon Enforcers discovered that the coaxium containers were empty and that the "Cloud-Riders" were villagers serving as decoys. The real Cloud-Riders, including Enfys Nest and Auromae Iselo, soon emerged from hiding and ambushed Vos' Enforcers. Han mockingly asked Vos if he sent all his enforcers. Beckett realized that the real coaxium was with Solo. Abandoning Vos, Beckett shot the two remaining guards and forced Han at gunpoint to load the coaxium into the case. He also took Chewbacca hostage and left with the coaxium containers. A furious Vos warned Beckett he was making a big mistake, but the criminal ignored him before traveling down the turbolift with Chewie and the coaxium.[9]

Once Beckett had left, Han grabbed his blaster and fired at Vos, who retrieved a pair of custom Kyuzo petars. Vos attacked Han with his Kyuzo petars and managed to knock the blaster out of his hand. Vos chased Han around the room, hurling his daggers. While Han was distracted with Vos, Qi'ra drew a sword and managed to pin Solo to the ground, knocking the blaster out of his hand. Qi'ra apologized while Vos said that Qi'ra was loyal to Crimson Dawn. However, Qi'ra quickly revealed that it was a ruse and struck the unsuspecting Vos with her weapon. Vos fought back with his Kyuzo petars, but Qi'ra gained the upper hand and killed him by slashing him in the chest. Qi'ra told Han to go after Chewbacca and Beckett, telling him that if they gave their coaxium to Enfys, they would need something else to buy a new ship. Before parting company, Qi'ra embraced Han and reminded him to look after Chewbacca and to smile. She told him that she would be right behind him.[9]

Solo and Chewbacca watch Qi'ra leave Savareen.
Solo and Chewbacca watch Qi'ra leave Savareen.

After Han left, Qi'ra removed Dryden Vos' signet ring and used it to seal the living room. Alone aboard Vos' yacht, Qi'ra contacted Vos' superior, the former Sith apprentice Maul. She informed him of the coaxium mission's failure and assumed Vos' position but carefully avoided telling him about Han's involvement, instead pinning the blame on Beckett. Using the Force to draw his dagger, Maul ordered Qi'ra to bring the yacht to the planet Dathomir and told her that together they would deal with the traitors, before stating that she would be working more closely with him in the future.[9]

Choosing allegiances
Meanwhile, Han caught up with Beckett and Chewbacca along the Pnakotic Coast. Beckett said that Han was relentless while Han told Chewie that he came as fast as he could. Han confirmed that Dryden was dead and that Qi'ra killed him. Beckett said that Han still didn't understand that Qi'ra was a survivor. Han responded that Beckett's problem was that he thought that everyone was like him. Beckett responded that Han was not like him. He tried to trick Han into lowering his guard by offering to tell something while reaching for his blaster.[9]

Before Beckett could shoot him, Han shot first, fatally wounding the gangster. Han helped up the dying Beckett who complimented Han for his quick thinking, admitting that he would have killed him had Han not reacted. Beckett praised Han for his courage on the Vandor mountain before breathing his last. Han watched as Qi'ra departed on the yacht First Light, having given Solo a clean break from his debts to the Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra watched Han and Chewbacca from the viewport. Chewie put a comforting hand on Han.[9]

Following the deaths of Vos and Beckett, Han and Chewbacca delivered the refined coaxium to Nest, who revealed her plans to use the coaxium, which was worth 60 million credits, to aid the rebellion against the Empire. She offered Han the chance to join her, but he declined. In response, Nest stated that someday he might feel more sympathetic to the rebels' cause. Out of gratitude for his help, Nest gave Solo a vial of coaxium, enough to buy a ship for himself.[9]

Further adventures
"You thinking what I'm thinking?"
―Solo to Chewbacca on Savareen[32]
Following their departure from Savareen, Chewie and Solo paired up on various jobs, including one where they were riding a 74-Z speeder bike under fire and another where Solo was tied up. Eventually, they found their way to Numidian Prime.[32]

Winning the Falcon
"Fair and square, baby. Fair and square."
―Han Solo[9]
Han used his coaxium as a buy-in to play sabacc with Lando and win the Millennium Falcon.
Han used his coaxium as a buy-in to play sabacc with Lando and win the Millennium Falcon.

Elsewhere, Han and Chewbacca soon tracked down Lando to a jungle outpost on Numidian Prime, where Lando was regaling patrons about his adventures in StarCave Nebula. Han chided Lando for leaving them on Savareen before embracing him. When Lando asked for his cut, Han replied he was not getting any since they barely survived their last adventure. After exchanging pleasantries, Han again challenged Lando to a sabacc game for possession of the Falcon. Han had previously subtly relieved Lando of the cards stashed up his sleeve and therefore won the game.[9]

After acquiring the Falcon, Han told Chewbacca that he planned to go to Tatooine, where Beckett told him that a gangster was putting together an organization. The Falcon then jumped into hyperspace.[9]

Captain of the Millennium Falcon
New adventures
Han and Chewie in the cockpit of their newly acquired Millennium Falcon
Han and Chewie in the cockpit of their newly acquired Millennium Falcon

The Falcon instantly became Solo's most prized possession. With their newly acquired ship and confidence, Solo and Chewbacca began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers.[33] Around the same time, Chewbacca hung Han's pair of chance cubes above the freighter's piloting console.[34] At some point during their travels, the two met Dash Rendar.[23]

Solo and Chewbacca also became acquainted with the infamous Tonnika sisters, but the many events that occurred between both parties left their relationship soured.[35] On one occasion, Solo and Calrissian attended a party aboard a casino starship, aboard which they met up with the sisters, on the Hydian Way.[36] One event—remembered by the sisters as the "Lando ordeal"—was Solo's idea, but he blamed them for what happened.[35] Calrissian's business partner Lobot also became familiar with Solo.[37]

Chewie's day off
"Tell you what. You need a break."
―Han Solo, to Chewbacca[38]
Solo piloted the Falcon through an asteroid field during a run to sell marked sabacc decks to the casino on Marquinn. He told Chewbacca to take the day off while he sold marked sabacc decks to the casino's owner Zefin Tuzo. During Chewbacca's day off, he countered a criminal named Vullen Candroon which wanted to kill Chewbacca. Chewbacca escaped Candroon but ran into Zefin Tuzo, who was working with Vullen. Later, Chewbacca managed to escape Candroon and Tuzo. Meanwhile Han was talking to patrons in the casino. Chewbacca immediately ran into the casino to get Han because he was getting chased by Candroon and Tuzo. Later, Han and Chewbacca managed to escape aboard the Millennium Falcon.[38]

Chased by Kallus
"You've made quite a name for yourself."
―Alexsandr Kallus to Han Solo[39]
Solo confronted by ISB Agent Kallus
Solo confronted by ISB Agent Kallus

Imperial Security Bureau agent Alexsandr Kallus hired the bounty hunter IG-88 to assist in tracking down Solo, with the intention of bringing the smuggler to justice for defecting from the Empire and assisting Enfys Nest. Solo and Chewbacca fled the two, and escaped capture by flying the Falcon between two Imperial Star Destroyers.[39]

The Cordaxian Sea
"Kill you...kill you both for this..."
―Frax to Han Solo[40]
Frax points his gun at Han Solo.
Frax points his gun at Han Solo.

Some time after escaping Kallus,[39] Solo and Chewbacca were transporting two tons of Cordaxian ore on the planet Odona, with the help of Frax, a Kajain'sa'Nikto. They were pursued by the Empire, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Imperial prison, pulled a blaster on Han. Chewbacca did a barrel roll with the Millennium Falcon, knocking Frax off the ship into the Cordaxian Sea. Han and Chewbacca escaped the Empire and Odona, but they left Frax behind.[40]

Stenness