Han Solo, known only as Han until being given the surname Solo, was a human male smuggler and hero of the Alliance to Restore the Republic. He rose from an impoverished childhood to become captain of the Millennium Falcon, a leader in the Rebel Alliance and an instrumental figure in the Galactic Civil War during the reign of the Galactic Empire. Although he did not believe in the Force controlling his destiny, Han came to believe in the cause of galactic freedom, joining Jedi Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia Organa in the fight for the Rebellion. Following the war, Han and Leia welcomed a son, Ben Solo, who became the dark knight Kylo Ren after being corrupted by the dark side of the Force. Although their relationship floundered, Leia hoped that Han, as Ben's father, could find a way to break the dark side's hold on their son. Han Solo became legendary across the galaxy as both a smuggler and war hero of the Rebellion.

As a young man fighting for survival on the mean streets of Corellia, Han yearned to fly among the stars with dreams of becoming the galaxy's best pilot. With a fellow scrumrat named Qi'ra, Han lived as a street thief with Corellia's notorious White Worms gang until an important deal with Lady Proxima went bad, causing Han to flee Corellia. He was given the full name "Han Solo" by an Imperial recruitment officer while entering the Imperial Academy. He became known as Cadet 124-329 while serving as an Imperial cadet, and was eventually assigned to the 224th Imperial Armored Division. On Mimban, Han met the thief Tobias Beckett and wound up deserting the Empire and joining his crew to steal unrefined coaxium from Kessel in order to pay a debt to Dryden Vos, a kingpin with the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. By the end of this scheme, during which he reunited with Qi'ra, Han was forced to kill his mentor Beckett after a brutal double-cross. Han also became rivals and close friends with fellow smuggler Lando Calrissian and the Wookiee Chewbacca, the latter who became his best friend. Calrissian owned the Millennium Falcon, a fast ship with which Han made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs and won from Lando in a game of sabacc.

With only Chewbacca remaining at his side, as his trusted copilot who swore a life debt to the Corellian smuggler, Han Solo embarked on a smuggling career under the employ of Jabba the Hutt, a notorious gangster and crime lord of Tatooine. After ditching a shipment of spice to avoid trouble with the Empire, Solo owed a great deal of money to Jabba, who then placed a bounty on the smuggler's head, as a result. His fortune seemed to have changed when Han and Chewbacca were hired to charter Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO to Alderaan, avoiding Imperial stormtroopers who were searching for Luke's droids. However, as they find Alderaan destroyed by the Empire's new superweapon, the Death Star, Solo became caught up in the rebellion against the Empire, rescuing Princess Leia Organa, delivering the stolen Death Star plans to the hidden Rebel base on Yavin 4, and saved Luke from the Sith Lord Darth Vader in the Battle of Yavin, allowing Skywalker to destroy the Death Star. Solo fought with the Rebellion for a number of years afterward, taking part in numerous operations and battles against the Empire.

After the Battle of Hoth, Solo sought refuge with Organa—with whom he had fallen in love—Chewbacca, and C-3PO on Cloud City, which was operated by his old friend Lando Calrissian. There, they were captured by Darth Vader as part of a trap to bait Skywalker to the city. Solo was frozen in carbonite and taken to Jabba's Palace on Tatooine by the bounty hunter Boba Fett, where he remained encased in carbonite for months until he was rescued by his friends. After returning to the Alliance Fleet, Solo was promoted to the rank of general and was given command of the Pathfinders, a special forces squad, for the Battle of Endor. Solo led the Pathfinders to Endor, where he, Organa, Chewbacca, and the special forces team, with the help of the native Ewoks, destroyed the shield generator protecting the second Death Star that was being constructed in orbit. Their actions allowed the Alliance Fleet to destroy the superweapon.

The Battle of Endor, which saw the deaths of Emperor Sheev Palpatine and Darth Vader, allowed the Rebellion to form the New Republic. In the early days after Endor, Solo continued to lead the Pathfinders against the Empire. He married Organa, and the two had a son, Ben Solo. The boy struggled with the dark side of the Force—like his mother, who was the daughter of Darth Vader and twin sister of Luke Skywalker, Ben was Force-sensitive—so Organa sent him to be trained as a Jedi by Skywalker. Ben was seduced to the dark side by Snoke, Supreme Leader of the First Order, resulting in the destruction of Skywalker's attempt to rebuild the Jedi Order.

Having lost their son, Solo left and returned to smuggling, and even lost the Millennium Falcon to numerous thieves. He continued to smuggle until he was brought back into the fight by a scavenger named Rey and a defected First Order stormtrooper named Finn, who carried with them a droid, BB-8, that had part of a map to Skywalker's location. Solo, who retrieved the Falcon from Rey and Finn, returned to Organa, who led the Resistance against the First Order, and fought in the battle to destroy the First Order superweapon known as Starkiller Base. During the battle, Solo saw his son, who had taken the name Kylo Ren, and tried to convince him to return home. Instead, Ren stabbed his father with his lightsaber. Mortally wounded, Solo fell to his death in the bowels of the Starkiller weapon. However, Solo's heroic memory survived and his spirit remained alive and appeared in a Force vision a year later to convince Ren to abandon the dark side and defeat the resurrected Darth Sidious, after a duel on the remains of the second Death Star between Rey and Ren, being enough for Ben Solo to return and eventually sacrifice his own life to help Rey end Sidious and the Sith for good.

Biography
Early life
Childhood
"Han, my boy, when you grow up, don't build ships like me. You're meant for better. You're meant to fly them."
―Ovan, to his son, Han[22]
Han as a child
Han as a child

Han was born in a rough-and-tumble favela on the planet Corellia during the waning years of the Galactic Republic in 32 BBY.[2] Sometime after he became famous, it would be rumored by a Snivvian bounty hunter that Han was actually a descendant of the Prince-Admiral Jonashe Solo, a member of the ancient Corellian royalty.[23] During his formative years,[9] his father Ovan[8] worked in the Corellian Engineering Corporation shipyards, building vessels such as YT-1300 light freighters until he was laid off. Solo's father wished he could leave Corellia on such a ship, but was never able to afford to. According to Han, he was never close with his father.[9] At one point his father brought him to the freighter factory where he worked and pointed out to the young Han that the ships being built there were his contributions to the galaxy, but that they ultimately didn't matter. He advised him that he wasn't meant to build ships, but rather to fly them.[24] Eventually, his father abandoned him.[12] At some point he met the Ithorian Pjolan.[25]

Working for the White Worms
"Why did you do that, Han? You could've gotten yourself killed. For nothing."
"You're right, Qi'ra. That's the way it is. No one's ever gonna help anyone unless it gets them something. Hell, I noticed you didn't exactly lend a hand. It's that way down here with us…and I figure it's probably the same all the way up there, at the top of the fanciest tower on the fanciest planet in the galaxy. But today, for a few minutes, for that kid…that's not how it was. Maybe it doesn't always have to be this way, you know? I guess that's what I was thinking. Maybe it could be different. You gotta start somewhere."
―Qi'ra and Han[26]
Han and Qi'ra
Han and Qi'ra

Around 24 BBY, Han joined the White Worms criminal gang as a scrumrat.[13] Here, Han met fellow scrumrat Qi'ra.[9] Despite being in service to the gang, Han showed considerable defiance towards them and their methods. One day, he intervened as a smaller child was attacked by a group of bullies, which led to Han getting beaten as well. Afterwards, Qi'ra asked Han why he helped the child despite not getting anything in return. Han answered that while that might be how the galaxy works, it did not always have to be that way.[26]

When Han was about the age of eighteen, Han and Qi'ra were vying for the position of Head within the White Worms. During their respective assignments, Han and Qi'ra both failed to deliver as promised, leading them to be hunted down by factions such as the White Worms, the Kaldana Syndicate, as well as the Empire. Han had acquired a datacube with plans for a shield generator that was desired by all the factions. Han and Qi'ra had no choice but to partner up to find a resolution to their problems. Eventually, Qi'ra became Head thanks to Han's recommendation to Lady Proxima. As they later ate together, Han asked if he and Qi'ra were on their first date. Qi'ra denied it, but acknowledged the possibility that it could happen someday.[24] Sometime later, Han and Qi'ra began a romantic relationship.[9]

Escaping Corellia
"Han, this... this could work."
"This is gonna work. Qi'ra, you always said one day we're gonna get out of here. This is it."
―Qi'ra and Han[9]
Acting under orders from Lady Proxima, Han set up a deal with some individuals to exchange coaxium for credits. Qi'ra suggested that Han shouldn't go alone, but both Proxima and Han disagreed with her. Upon meeting with the individuals, Han got into a fight with them due to having not abided by their stated terms and proceeded to escape with an extremely valuable vial of coaxium, as well as a speeder. Han fled the criminals on his M-68 landspeeder through the streets of Coronet City. He drove through a bridge and hung his dice on the windscreen.[9]

Han confronts Lady Proxima
Han confronts Lady Proxima

Upon arriving at the Den of the White Worms, he and the other Scrumrats were herded by Lady Proxima's enforcers into her underground chamber. Three children fought over stolen items they had pickpocketed. Han and Qi'ra embraced each other in a tunnel. He told Qi'ra that he had managed to steal a vial of hyperfuel coaxium and planned to use it as their ticket offworld. Moloch, Syke, and Rebolt soon caught up with them and brought Han before Lady Proxima, who asked Han for a progress report. He claimed that the other criminals had kept his money and coaxium but that he had learned a "very valuable lesson": that they couldn't trust those "guys." Lady Proxima was furious that Han had come back with nothing from his errand. Rebolt beat Han with a stick. A defiant Han grabbed Rebolt's stick and said that he would beat those who beat him. Moloch raised his blaster at Han but Qi'ra stopped him. Lady Proxima warned Qi'ra not to disobey her. Han pulled out a rock and claimed to have a thermal detonator but Proxima was not fooled. Han revealed that it was a bluff and hurled the rock through the ceiling, letting in a beam of sunlight. Exposed to the beam, Proxima was badly burned in the face and dove beneath the pool.[9]

Han and Qi'ra escape through Coronet City
Han and Qi'ra escape through Coronet City

Han and Qi'ra escaped in Han's stolen M-68 landspeeder and raced out of the White Worms' den into the streets of Coronet. Han's plan was to drive to Coronet Spaceport with the stolen coaxium and use it to bribe their way offworld. Han vowed to be a pilot and see the galaxy. Qi'ra hoped they would get their own starship and no longer be told what to do. The pair were soon pursued by Moloch's A-A4B truckspeeder, which was also carrying two Corellian hounds. Moloch rammed his truckspeeder against Han's landspeeder. After narrowly avoiding a truck, Han drove through an Imperial checkpoint. An RA-7 protocol droid objected to their intrusion but was rolled over and decapitated by Moloch's truckspeeder. When Qi'ra said that Moloch was fast, Han reassured her that they were faster. Han's landspeeder and Moloch's truckspeeder were pursued by an Imperial patrol trooper riding a C-PH patrol speeder bike. However, the rider crashed into a barrier. Han and Qi'ra drove through a factory with Moloch hot on their tail. Han managed to escape Moloch's truck by driving the landspeeder through a tight corner. With the landspeeder stuck, Moloch dispatched Rebolt and the Corellian hounds after them.[9]

Serving under the Galactic Empire
Recruitment
"This is where I sign up to be a pilot, right?"
"If you apply for the Imperial Navy, but most recruits go into the infantry."
"I'm gonna be a pilot. Best in the galaxy."
―Han, and Drawd Munbrin[9]
Drawd Munbrin gives Han the surname 'Solo'
Drawd Munbrin gives Han the surname 'Solo'

Han and Qi'ra managed to reach the Coronet spaceport on foot. There was a strong Imperial military presence at the spaceport, where there were long queues offworld. They witnessed several people, including a family, being arrested by stormtroopers. Han and Qi'ra joined a queue. Qi'ra was worried about being trafficked by the Crimson Dawn, but Han vowed to protect her. Since they didn't have identification, Han and Qi'ra used the coaxium vial to bribe the Imperial Emigration Officer Falthina Sharest into letting them through the customs booth. After depositing the coaxium, Han managed to cross through.[9]

Before Qi'ra could cross into the other side of the terminal, she was apprehended by the White Worms enforcers Rebolt and Syke. Qi'ra told Han to flee, and he vowed to return for her. Han managed to evade Imperial forces and the White Worms by donning a stolen hat and hiding behind several crates. He witnessed more people being arrested by stormtroopers. Lacking sufficient funds to travel offworld, Han found an Imperial Military recruiting post. Han spoke to the Imperial recruitment officer Drawd Munbrin and volunteered to join the Imperial Navy as a pilot. Since Han lacked a surname and family, he dubbed him "Han Solo" in the absence of a surname. Approving Han's application, he told Han to proceed to Transport ID-83 to the Imperial Flight Academy on Carida, promising Han that he would be flying in no time.[9]

Life as an Imperial cadet
"TIE fighters. Now we're talking--"
―Han Solo when he arrives at the Carida Academy[27]
Han arrives at the Carida Academy.
Han arrives at the Carida Academy.

When Han enlisted, Drawd Munbrin assigned Han to the Imperial academy on the planet Carida. When Han arrived, droids stripped all his clothing off. Right after, different droids gave him his new Imperial cadet suit and also shaved him. Han entered a room filled with many other cadets. Here a female Imperial officer named Triosa Broog was speaking over them. Soon after, he tried to greet a cadet, who told Han to shut up. Han realized that when he said shut up, he used Han's cadet name, and you were only known as numbers at the Imperial Academy. Later, Han was practicing on a battlefield as an Imperial Army trooper and wondered how this was supposed to help him in pilot training. Broog overheard Han. Han then raised his hand, and Broog called him a Corellian worm. Broog asked what his name was. They had a short conversation about his name. Broog then suggested to the other cadets that they show Han how basic training is supposed to help flying by hiking up a mountain twice.[27]

Stormtroopers surround Han after crashing the TIE fighter.
Stormtroopers surround Han after crashing the TIE fighter.

Immediately after, the cadets started to beat Han up. During this, cadet 404-913,[27] named Beilert Valance,[11] began to insult Han before cadet 803-308 told them to let him go. Han thanked her for the help and asked for the name of the cadet but refused to say. Right after, two cadets, Lyttan Dree and Tamu Dree, were talking about why they joined the Empire. They also asked Han why he had signed up, with Solo simply replying that he had to get off Corellia. Lyttan and Tamu said that he would never learn how to fly at the academy and that they might send him to a wretched place like Urthak or Mimban. Han was thinking about what they said and thought that he should do something deeply stupid. Han then snuck into a TIE fighter hanger and stole a fighter. Han eventually crashed the TIE, leading to stormtroopers surrounding Han at the crash site.[27]

After the crash Han was imprisoned. He eventually got out because of his great piloting skills. Fourteen days later, Nico, who was cadet 803-308, was one of the top of the leader board. Suddenly Han came upon Lyttan and Tamu, who were surprised about Nico topping the leader board. Lyttan and Tamu were surprised that Han survived the crash. The cadets had started a bet about Solo's fate, with one of the Dree brothers winning.[28]

Soon after, Han was bullied by 404-913, who started a fight with Han. Eventually Han was beaten, and Valance went to hurt Lyttan and Tamu, but Han kicked Valance in the crotch before he could do so. Han then smashed Valance in his face with a food tray. Valance was about to punch Han in the face, but before he could, Imperial troopers arrived and asked what was going on. but they told a lie instead of what really happened. Han suggested that Valance and Han should start over. Han told Valance his name, but Valance refused to give his. He said to look on the leader board to find out. Han looked and saw that Valance was the top one on the board. Soon after, Han said he could not believe that the academy let Valance actually become the top one. Nico came up behind Han and said she wondered how long he would last. She was also surprised that Han survived the crash. Tamu then told Han that there was no way Han was moving to top of the leader board. Han disagreed.[28]

Han saves Tamu Dree during training.
Han saves Tamu Dree during training.

Later during flight school, Han asked the instructor if there would be flying at any point. It took time, but eventually Han entered the cockpit of a TIE fighter. He made it to third place on the leader board. During a another flight class, the teacher Yurib Nakan, told the class to work in pairs and destroy a cannon's shield. Han and Tamu were partners for this exercise. Tamu's fighter was damaged, and Han saved him. When the training was over, Lyttan thanked Han for saving his brother's life. Soon after, a cadet came to Lyttan and said that he broke off before he could get a shot. Yurib then said that everyone failed the training. Han's actions of saving a cadet could have given Han a chance to become the best pilot the Galactic Empire had ever seen, but Han's fellow cadets might kill Han before he could do so. Solo claimed they should have earned partial credit since the team worked together.[28]

Solo and the other cadets were ordered to make soup for the all the cadets. During the night, Solo snuck out of his bunk and cleaned the floors in the refresher, but logged Valance as having done all the assignments. As a result, the next morning, Solo and the other cadets were assigned to the Quasar Fire-class carrier cruiser 07200823 by Yurib. Their orders were to transport several TIE fighter pilots. During the voyage, Solo was able to modify the cruiser's speed to give him and the cadets a day off. Solo also revealed he had day passes and told them there was a Pantolomin cruiser nearby they could visit and gave them civilian clothes. Despite Nico's objections, Solo was able to convince them to leave the cruiser.[25]

Pjolan pulls a blaster on Solo.
Pjolan pulls a blaster on Solo.

Aboard the cruiser, Solo told his fellow cadets to have some fun. Solo played sabacc with Nico and attempted to learn her reasons for joining the Imperial Navy. Nico refused to tell him why and deduced how Solo pulled off the excursion. She also noticed him eyeing an Ithorian. Solo was soon left to himself and met up with Pjolan. Solo attempted to drink an Ithorian ale to no avail. Han also asked Pjolan about Qi'ra. Pjolan said nothing, indicating that Qi'ra was still alive, but told Solo that Lady Proxima had a 200-credit bounty on him, so he pulled a blaster on Han. He was saved by Nico, and the two of them went to get Lyttan and Tamu. Pjolan attempted to collect Solo's bounty, but Solo was able to inform Black Sun, the cruiser's owners, about Pjolan, and the cartel captured him. Solo and the other cadets were allowed to leave with their thanks. Solo and the others were able to return cruiser 07200823 to Carida's academy. Upon their return, they were reinstated to full flight status. Later, the cadets were told by Yurib to come to the training room the next evening.[25]

After Solo completed his training he was stationed on the[11] planet[29] Qhulosk, where he became part of Carida Squadron and was sent to fight a battle for the Empire at Howlan. During the battle, Valance was shot down by native Qhuloskians, but the skirmish resulted in an Imperial victory. Yurib ordered the squadron to return to base. Solo refused and wanted to help Valance. Yurib responded that Valance was gone and told Solo to abort. Three enemy fighters came and fired at Carida Squadron, killing one of the TIEs. Eventually, the squadron defeated the fighters and fled back to base. When they arrived, Solo spoke to Yurib about why he could not save Valance. Yurib said that TIE bombers would wipe out the entire city soon and there was no time to rescue Valance. Solo became mad and set off to rescue Valance alone. Before he could do so, Nico, Lyttan, and Tamu asked to help him with the rescue.[11]

Han Solo, Imperial Navy cadet
Han Solo, Imperial Navy cadet

Per the plan, Yurib sent a bombing run to the city. One officer recognized that six people had left the base and six speeders were also missing. The officer revealed this to Yurib, but Yurib didn't respond. During the rescue, Solo, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were being shot at by Qhuloskians. The Imperial bombing run sent by Yurib almost killed them all but destroyed one of their speeders. When they reached Valance, Valance almost shot Solo. Valance then said to Solo that he couldn't believe that the Empire sent them to rescue him, but Solo said that they had chosen to rescue him. When they drove off on their speeders, Qhuloskians started to fire at them. Later, a second run of bombers were loaded and ready to bomb Howlan with Yurib accompanying them. Han, Valance, Nico, Tamu, and Lyttan were captured. Right before they were killed by the Qhuloskians, Ghulars opened fire on the aggressive aliens. The Ghulars were slaves to the Qhuloskians to mine for farium to make the Qhuloskians' ships stronger during battle. Afterwards, the Ghulars escaped the planet by taking escape pods from a crashed Qhuloskian warship. When they left, Nico began crying that her home planet in the Huru system was under mining control and her friend Weegee was a miner there. She became very angry and kicked one of their bikes. Han then realized that one escape pod was left and decided to fake Nico's death. When Nico left, Han, Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan then left for the base, being chased and fired at by Qhuloskian ships. They then were destroyed by Yurib in the lead TIE, and Howlan was completely bombed and destroyed.[29]

Later, Solo had to say goodbye to Valance, Tamu, and Lyttan at the base, and Solo was put into the brig.[29]

At some point his skills at flying at the Imperial academy at Carida became the only thing preventing his superiors from outright expelling him from the academy. Other recruits had tried to emulate his flying moves, but at least one recruit nearly died in a failed attempt. Broog vouched for Han to her commanding officer, Captain Nettic Whain, asking that he be given one more chance to fall into line. Finally, during an attack by raiders on Onyx Squadron, Han disobeyed orders once more in order to save the life of Cadet Lyttan Dree. Solo was able to take out three raiders before crashing into a hangar. Unfortunately, Solo's crash destroyed the hangar and dozens of astromechs. This action led to him being court-martialed and tried by Commodore Almudin.[30] Solo was expelled from the academy,[12] drafted into the 224th Imperial Armored Division as a Corporal,[13] and deployed to an active combat zone on Mimban.[9]

The Mimban campaign
"I saved him, at least that's what he says, the big fuzzy fool, but really, he saved me. I was on a bad path, and Chewie, he put me straight. Saved my shanks more than once too."
―Han Solo on how Chewbacca saved him[31]
Han Solo in his Mudtrooper gear on Mimban
Han Solo in his Mudtrooper gear on Mimban

After three years of Imperial service, Han had been expelled from the Carida Flight Academy for insubordination and was serving as a Mudtrooper Corporal during a battle on the planet Mimban. Solo's 224th Imperial Armored Division was locked in trench warfare against the Mimbanese Liberation Army, enduring heavy casualties in the torrid, muddy weather. Han took part in a ground assault led by Major Staz to capture a ridge. After Han was thrown to the ground, Staz helped him up and told him they were almost there. Solo was confused, but Staz instructed him to head to the last ridge. Unfortunately, Staz was soon killed by an explosion. Han and some surviving troops, including Private Collum Woslo, Corporal Sharlu Greslin, Corporal Danith Nodar, and Corporal Wesger Odry, gathered in a trench with "Captain" Tobias Beckett, who took command as the most senior officer in the group. Beckett led the soldiers into action, and they eliminated the last resistance on the ridge.[9]

Following the skirmish, Han spoke with "Captain" Beckett, expressing gratitude for his help. Beckett advised him to get away from there as fast as he could. Solo soon encountered Beckett's companions, Val and the Ardennian Rio Durant, who were disguised as Imperial Army troopers. They warned him not to follow them. Lieutenant Alayus Bolandin informed Han and his comrades that they would be moving out to the Southern Marshlands in three hours. When Bolandin requested an advance party, Solo questioned why the Empire was destroying and occupying Mimban, earning the enmity of his commanding officer. Disenchanted with the Empire, Han sought out Beckett and his gang, who were planning a heist. Han recognized them as thieves posing as Imperial Army personnel. Val and Beckett initially wanted to kill Han, but he offered his services as a pilot. When Rio asked what a fancy "fly boy" was doing in the mud, Han claimed he had been kicked out for having a mind of his own. Han pointed out that Rio was an Ardennian. Desperate to escape offworld, Solo tried to blackmail them into allowing him to join their gang by threatening to expose them as infiltrators. However, Beckett turned the tables on him and convinced Lieutenant Bolandin that Solo was attempting to desert. Seeking an opportunity to rid his unit of a "trouble-maker," Bolandin had a chained Solo thrown into a pen where he was condemned to battle a "beast" held in captivity.[9]

Han Solo meets Chewbacca in the mud of Mimban
Han Solo meets Chewbacca in the mud of Mimban

The beast was revealed to be a Wookiee named Chewbacca, whose species had been enslaved by the Empire. Thinking he was a threat, Chewbacca attacked Han and hurled him against the girders and mud. Owing to Han's ability to speak Shyriiwook, Solo convinced Chewbacca that he was a friend. Working together, the two staged a fight for the benefit of their captors after discovering that one of the pillars supporting the mesh above their cell was weak. The unsuspecting sentries laughed and thought that Han was doomed. After several attempts, Han pretended to goad Chewbacca into pushing against the main pillar supporting the mesh, causing it to collapse. After jumping out of harm's way, Chewbacca threw Han out of the pit and followed suit. The two found that they were chained together. Chewbacca wanted to flee the camp, but Han convinced him to accompany him to a nearby airfield. He told Chewbacca to trust him, promising that they could go their separate ways if he chose to do so afterward. Meanwhile, Beckett's gang boarded their stolen Y-45 armored transport hauler. Throwing off his Imperial army helmet and uniform, Rio asked how they could breathe in those stuffy suits. The three took off, but Beckett spotted Han and Chewbacca waving to them below. Rio was impressed by Solo's determination and believed that a Wookiee would be helpful as muscle. Val was opposed, but Rio convinced Beckett to bring the ship down so they could pick up Han and Chewbacca. The five then departed Mimban in the stolen hauler.[9]

Life as a scoundrel
Working with Tobias Beckett
Vandor heist
"Look, I waited a long time for a shot like this. I'm not about to screw it up, all right?"
―Han Solo, to Val[9]
Han Solo in his attire worn for the Vandor heist
Han Solo in his attire worn for the Vandor heist

After Han and Chewbacca's escape from Mimban, Beckett took the transport hauler to the snowy, mountainous world of Vandor. While watching over the snowy mountains from the hauler, Han thanked Chewbacca for saving him, acknowledging that he only survived because of the Wookiee. He shared his plan with Chewbacca, explaining that they would do one job with Beckett's gang in exchange for their freedom. Chewbacca accepted the deal. Han asked Chewbacca for his name and settled on "Chewie," finding it easier to say than his full name in Shyriiwook. Upon landing, Beckett enlisted the two of them for a planned heist to steal a shipment of the hyperfuel refined coaxium from a 20-T Railcrawler conveyex transport on Vandor. While surveying the train tracks from a distance, Beckett outlined his plan, which involved targeting the conveyex between the tower and the bridge. Rio dropped them onto the conveyex, allowing them to separate the payload container and lift it up onto the AT hauler. Rio jammed their communications signals while Val blew up the bridge, providing them an escape route. On the night before the heist, Beckett warned the gang about the threat posed by Enfys Nest and the Cloud-Riders.[9]

While resting by the campfire, Val criticized Beckett for involving Han and Chewbacca, considering them amateurs, questioning why they couldn't have simply hired professionals such as the Xan sisters or Bossk. Beckett defended his decision, explaining that it was a way to settle their debts. During the campfire conversation, Beckett and his associates questioned Han about his motives. Han revealed his plans to become a pilot and return to find Qi'ra. Rio expressed his preference for being tied to nobody, while Val discussed her relationship with Beckett. Solo then asked Chewbacca what he would do with his share of the profits, with Chewbacca responding that he would use it to help the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. Beckett promised Han and Chewbacca that if they followed his instructions, they would have more than enough to buy their own ship, before disassembling one of his blaster pistols into a DL-44 pistol and tossing it over to Han, who gazed down upon his new weapon.[9]

While Rio flew the Y-45 hauler, Han, Chewbacca, and Beckett landed on the cargo wagon carrying coaxium, with Val positioning herself on the bridge. The presence of Beckett and his team soon attracted the attention of Imperial range troopers, leading to an exchange of fire. As the conveyex train maneuvered along a narrow cliff face, Han and Chewie narrowly avoided being crushed against rocks. Working together, they managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rear line. Maintaining communication with Beckett, Rio lowered the "witch cables" onto the coaxium wagon. However, before Beckett's gang could escape with the stolen coaxium, they were attacked by the Cloud-Riders, who rode swoop bikes. Enfys Nest, the leader of the Cloud-Riders, ordered her followers to lower their harpoons. Han and the others evaded blaster fire, and one of the swoop bikes crashed against a rock. Two of the Cloud-Riders boarded the Y-45 hauler and fatally wounded Durant. Solo left Chewbacca to uncouple the wagon from the front train while he went to assist Rio.[9]

Han Solo and Chewbacca assist Tobias Beckett's crew in their heist on Vandor
Han Solo and Chewbacca assist Tobias Beckett's crew in their heist on Vandor

Solo managed to climb aboard the transport hauler and take control of the ship, triggering a security sensor in the process. Val warned Han that Viper probe droids were heading his way. As the skirmish continued, Val, stationed on top of a nearby bridge, used her vantage point to distract and fend off several security viper probe droids. With his dying breath, Durant apologized to Solo for mocking his flying abilities and acknowledged that Val was right in her belief that no one should die alone. Beckett fought Enfys Nest on top of the wagon. However, the conveyex train was rapidly approaching the bridge, and Val realized there wasn't enough time for her to abandon her position without allowing the crew to steal the coaxium wagon. After communicating her change of plans to Beckett via comlink, Val professed her love for him before detonating the bomb, sacrificing herself and destroying the bridge. The destruction of the bridge caused the conveyex to plunge into a deep gorge. In a struggle, Chewbacca managed to detach the coaxium wagon from the rest of the train. However, the Cloud-Riders had attached grappling hooks to the wagon, dragging it down. Not wanting to risk the lives of Beckett and Chewbacca, Solo made the difficult decision to let go of the coaxium wagon, which plummeted into the ravine below and exploded. Chewbacca grabbed Beckett, and the two survived by clinging to the cable.[9]

Following the failed heist, Beckett erected a hasty memorial to Val and Rio. Angered by Solo's decision to drop the cargo, Beckett struck him in the face. Beckett revealed he had been ordered to steal the coaxium to repay his debt to Dryden Vos, the leader of the Crimson Dawn criminal syndicate. Han proposed deserting, but Beckett countered that Vos would send out enforcers to hunt down those who had crossed him. Beckett said the only thing they could do was go to Vos and make amends. Han agreed to come along to make things right and exacted a promise from Beckett to pay him and Chewbacca for their services. Chewie agreed to come along.[9]

Meeting Dryden Vos
"I don't believe we've been introduced."
"Yeah. This is Han Solo and Chewbacca. They're with me."
―Dryden Vos, meeting Han Solo and Chewbacca through Tobias Beckett[9]
Han Solo, Tobias Beckett, and Chewbacca meet with Dryden Vos to discuss business
Han Solo, Tobias Beckett, and Chewbacca meet with Dryden Vos to discuss business

Beckett, Han, and Chewie traveled to the outskirts of Fort Ypso, where Vos' yacht, First Light, had arrived. After surrendering their weapons to Captain Aemon Gremm, they entered the public gallery. Beckett's team entered the yacht's hallway. Beckett spoke to Vos' concierge, Margo, seeking an audience with Dryden Vos. She told him that Vos was having an audience with Governor Diles Anevi, whom Vos killed. Captain Gremm informed Vos of Beckett's presence. Beckett advised Han and Chewbacca to keep their eyes down because the people there were not their friends, gesturing to the wealthy people around them, eating and drinking the most expensive, tasty, and quality food available. Han soon had an unexpected reunion with Qi'ra, who now worked for Vos. The two drank together while reminiscing about their past and ambitions. Beckett soon arrived with Vos, who introduced himself to Solo and shook his hand, as he then did with Chewie. Vos suggested they go to his office to discuss business privately.[9]

After exchanging pleasantries, Vos chastised Beckett for underestimating Enfys Nest and told Beckett to give him a reason not to kill them. Since the few available stocks of coaxium were in Imperial hands, Han proposed stealing unrefined coaxium from Kessel, where the Pyke Syndicate ran a mining operation. Vos was unwilling to jeopardize his syndicate's business relations with the Pykes, and consequentially gestured for his guards to kill Solo, Beckett, and Chewie. However, Han and Beckett informed him that they had no alliance with the Pykes, and taking on the operation themselves would not implicate Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra was supportive of Han's idea but warned that the unstable coaxium had to be brought to a processing facility quickly before it deteriorated. Chewbacca suggested Savareen since it was not under Imperial control. Vos approved of the plan but sent Qi'ra along with them. Before they left, Vos reminded them that he would be forced to execute them if they were to fail him again. In the turbolift, Beckett said he could provide the gear for the mission, before asking if Qi'ra knew where to find a ship.[9]

Visit to the Lodge
"Captain Lando Calrissian."
"Han Solo. Looks like you're having a good day."
"I'm a lucky guy."
―Lando Calrissian, and Han Solo's first meeting[9]
Lando Calrissian, the captain of the Millennium Falcon.
Lando Calrissian, the captain of the Millennium Falcon.

Knowing that they would need a fast ship for the Kessel heist, Qi'ra took Solo and his companions to the Lodge at nearby Fort Ypso. There, she introduced the team to Lando Calrissian, an accomplished smuggler and pilot who had supposedly won his ship in a game of sabacc. Solo walked past many established scoundrels and bounty hunters, such as Boba Fett and Dengar, unaware that they would become a key part of his life in the future. After walking past two dueling droids, Solo and the rest of the crew eventually found Lando playing sabacc with several alien patrons. Against Qi'ra and Chewbacca's advice, Han challenged Lando to a game of sabacc, seeking to win his ship. Han won the first round and collected several credits. While Han and Lando were playing, the Cloud-Rider Weazel spied on them. Han agreed to a second round and placed a wager on Lando's ship, reputed to be the fastest in the galaxy, whilst Lando did the same for the ship Han claimed to have. Unbeknownst to Han, Lando had a card hidden up his sleeve, which he uses to win the game, ultimately humiliating Han in front of Qi'ra.[9]

Han Solo and Chewbacca see the Millennium Falcon for the first time.
Han Solo and Chewbacca see the Millennium Falcon for the first time.

Following the game, an enraged Solo questioned how Lando could have possibly had a specific card without cheating. Calrissian called out to Han questioning where his ship was, before being interrupted by Qi'ra. Lando complimented her, stating that she looked as beautiful as ever, before speaking further with her regarding their upcoming heist on Kessel. Calrissian requested half the profits, which Solo deemed to be ridiculous, before Beckett arrived and negotiated it down to 25 percent. Lando agreed, knowing that Beckett was responsible for killing the bounty hunter Aurra Sing during a skirmish. Han and his companions soon encountered Lando's droid co-pilot, L3-37, who had a female programming and was an avowed droid rights advocate. L3-37 objected to the droid fighting pits at the Lodge and picked a fight with the owner Ralakili, who objected to her trying to stop his droids from fighting. However, Lando intervened and convinced her to let him go. Despite L3-37's misgivings about the newcomer, Lando and the others set out for Lando's ship, which had been impounded. After L3-37 cut a hole through the gate, Lando showed Han and his companions his ship, the Millennium Falcon. Lando had refurbished the ship, including installing an escape pod and wet bar. Beckett agreed to remove the gravity lock in return for taking five percent off Lando's cut, reducing it to 20 percent. Lando reluctantly agreed to Beckett's deal. As the Falcon disembarked, Weazel informed Enfys Nest that they had planted a homing beacon on the ship. Enfys gambled that if they survived, they would bring the price to them.[9]

Infiltration on Kessel
"This is a precision job. Thermal vault will be on the lowest level. Down where it's warm. The only way we're gonna pull this off, is if everybody plays their part. Stick to the plan. Do not improvise."
―Tobias Beckett, to Han Solo and the rest of the crew[9]
While traveling aboard the Falcon, Han told Lando that he recognized the ship as a YT-1300 light freighter because his father had worked at a CEC plant before he got laid off. Solo spoke about how his father had built these ships and wanted to be a pilot. Lando questioned how close Solo was with his father, though Han remarked that he never really was, which Lando understood, having the same feelings towards his own father. L3-37 soon arrived and ushered Solo out of the co-pilot seat. Han and Qi'ra smiled at one another whilst L3 complained in the background. Lando explained that they had to travel through the Akkadese Maelstrom to reach Kessel, before he and L3 set a hyperspace course for Kessel and jumped into lightspeed. Meanwhile, Beckett played dejarik with Chewbacca. Beckett used one of his pieces to take out one of Chewbacca's pieces, angering the Wookiee who slammed his fists on the hologram set. Beckett schooled Chewbacca that he had to think a few steps ahead. Han asked if they had seen Qi'ra, but Beckett replied that people were predictable.[9]

Han and Qi'ra embrace each other for the first time in years.
Han and Qi'ra embrace each other for the first time in years.

Han walked to Calrissian's cape closet where he found Qi'ra trying on a blue cape. Qi'ra asked Han about his plan for Kessel. Though Han wanted to ask her about her experiences following their separation on Corellia, Qi'ra tried to change the subject. Han gave Qi'ra a passionate kiss, and the two embraced. Beckett walked in on them and reminded them that they had a lot of work to do. In private, Beckett told Han that he was making a big mistake by trusting Qi'ra. He told Han that he and Chewbacca would make a good crew but that it would not work with Qi'ra. Beckett advised Han to trust nobody and to assume that everyone would betray him. Han thought of it as a lonely way to live, though Beckett said it was the only way.[9]

As they approached Kessel, Beckett briefed the team about their plan to reach the thermal vault where the coaxium was stored. He warned everyone to stick to the plan. The Falcon landed in a clearing at the base of the mine where they were greeted by several Pykes, including Capo Quay Tolsite. Qi'ra posed as the slaver Oksana Floren, Deputy Assistant to the Vice Admiral of the Federation of Trade Route Allocation and Monetization. Han and Chewbacca posed as slaves while Beckett posed as a helmeted "security attache." L3-37 posed as a servant droid. "Floren" met with Capo Tolsite and offered to trade the Federation's slaves in return for the Pyke Syndicate's spice. One of the Pyke sentinels forced Chewbacca and Han Solo to their knees with a pike and inspected them. Tolsite sent Han and Chewbacca to be clipped. Before leaving, Qi'ra then punched Han in the gut but discreetly passed him his lucky charm. Qi'ra, L3-37, and Beckett accompanied the Pykes into Tolsite's control room while Han and Chewie were led into the mines. Moments later, Han and Chewie were beaten by their Pyke captors, though they soon turned the tables on their guards as the camera feed faded. Han knocked out his guard, but Chewie ended up pulling the arms off his captors, which Han complained about, stating that the suit would have fit him perfectly.[9]

The actions of Han Solo and Chewbacca inspired an uprising amongst slaves, allowing the pair the perfect opportunity to escape
The actions of Han Solo and Chewbacca inspired an uprising amongst slaves, allowing the pair the perfect opportunity to escape

Han eventually found a new suit and, alongside Chewbacca, mingled among the slaves and guards. L3-37 and Qi'ra directed Han and Chewbacca to the thermal vault. As they approached the vaults, Chewbacca broke off to free a Wookiee slave named Sagwa. Han passed Chewie a pike, which he used to attack the Pyke guards beating Sagwa. Following Beckett's directions, Han reached the vault and incapacitated the guard. After L3-37 unlocked the vault, Han stole 12 unrefined coaxium canisters. Han struggled to push a sled carrying the canisters but was noticed by the Pyke guards. Chewbacca came to the rescue and took out the guards with his pike. Sagwa and Chewie helped Han push out the canisters.[9]

Lando exited the Millennium Falcon to join the battle as Han and the rest of the team fought their way out with the liberated slaves and droids. While Chewbacca and Sagwa loaded the coaxium canisters aboard the Falcon, Han and the others exchanged fire with Pyke sentries, who had brought a sonic cannon. Before they could leave, L3 was fatally damaged by gunfire. A grieving Lando came to the aid of the dying L3-37, who succumbed to systems failure. Lando was hit, and Han came to his aid, driving the sentries away. A slave named Tak led the slaves to safety. Chewbacca embraced Sagwa before leaving with Han and Lando. Chewbacca carried a wounded Lando aboard the Falcon while Qi'ra took out the Pykes' sonic cannon with a grenade, causing an inferno. While a distraught Lando cradled a disintegrating L3, Beckett ordered Han to get them out of Kessel. Han then flew the Falcon out of the mine into the skies of Kessel.[9]

The Kessel Run
"It's an easy equation. We simply don't have enough time to get to Savareen before the canisters explode!"
"Just have to find a faster route."
"There isn't one! You can't make the Kessel Run in less than 20 parsecs."
"Watch me."
―Lando Calrissian and Han Solo[9]
Han Solo during the Kessel Run
Han Solo during the Kessel Run

While Lando mourned the loss of L3-37, Qi'ra volunteered as Han's co-pilot. They were joined by Chewbacca while Beckett sealed the hidden storage compartment containing the coaxium. As they approached the Akkadese Maelstrom, Lando warned them that they had to hurry due to the volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium. The Falcon soon encountered an Imperial Star Destroyer, which had exited hyperspace in response to the rebellion on Kessel. Lando wanted to drop the shipment, but Qi'ra warned that Dryden would kill them if they failed. Seeking to recover the Falcon's stolen coaxium cargo, the Star Destroyer dispatched several TIE fighters and heavy fighters in pursuit of the freighter. Han flew the Falcon around the Star Destroyer, and the Imperial TIE fighters gave chase. Due to the highly volatile nature of the unrefined coaxium, Lando estimated that completion of the Kessel run was impossible before the fuel detonated - the conventional route having never been done in less than twenty parsecs. Han proposed taking a shortcut through the maelstrom, which Lando regarded as suicidal. Han convinced Lando to download L3's neural cords, which contained her navigational data, into the Falcon's systems.[9]

Han took the Falcon and its TIE pursuers through the dangerous storm clouds of the Akkadese Maelstrom while Beckett manned the ship's ventral laser cannon, taking out two TIE fighters. However, a third fighter managed to evade Beckett's laser cannon and inflicted damage on the top of the Falcon's hull, causing Lando to fall. Han rolled the Falcon, striking the TIE fighter with its side and sending it into an asteroid. More TIE fighters continued the pursuit, prompting Han to state they needed to divert power to the rear shield generator. Chewbacca did so, causing Han to ask when he learned to fly. Chewbacca responded that he was 190 years old. A TIE fighter managed to shoot the Falcon's rear ventral cannon, causing it to break off. Han flew the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom with the TIE hot on his tail. Mimicking a move copied from a Corellian street racer, Han got Chewbacca to deploy the landing gear as the Falcon scraped against the surface of an asteroid. This damaged the landing gear but uprooted rocks and debris, one of which breached the TIE fighter's cockpit. Han then took the Falcon deeper into the Maelstrom. Meanwhile, Lando and Qi'ra managed to retrieve L3's internal processor. Beckett observed the coaxium vials becoming more unstable and alerted the others. Lando and Qi'ra managed to install L3's processor into the Falcon's systems.[9]

As they reached the Maw Cluster, L3 constructed a model of the Akkadese Maelstrom and warned them that they were approaching a massive summa-verminoth. The Falcon soon found itself face to face with the monster. The crew tried to escape the monster but ended up arriving at a large gravity well, which Lando identified as the Maw. Thinking fast, Han ejected the Falcon's escape pod into the well for the summa-verminoth to follow, which took the bait. Guiding the ship's systems, L3 found a way out 90 degrees to the left. However, the Falcon was trapped in the gravity well. Qi'ra and Lando convinced the rest of the team to inject a drop of coaxium into the fusion core to give them the kick needed to escape the gravity well. Carrying out their plan, Beckett retrieved a drop of coaxium. Meanwhile, the verminoth was pulled into the Maw and ripped apart. At Solo's command, Beckett boosted the ship's fusion core with a drop of coaxium, which briefly supercharged the engines. Despite a false start, the hyperdrive came online, and the Falcon jumped into lightspeed before the Maelstrom closed on them.[9]

Savareen
"You were wrong about one thing, I was paying attention. You told Chewie people are predictable. You're no exception."
―Han Solo to Tobias Beckett[9]
Dryden accuses Han of giving him fake coaxium.
Dryden accuses Han of giving him fake coaxium.

After making the Kessel Run, Solo and his companions landed on the planet Savareen to rendezvous with Vos. As the Falcon approached the Bis Refinery, Solo radioed the air traffic controller Dhowar Repareed, warning that he was coming with a cargo of coaxium that needed to be offloaded immediately. The damaged Falcon circled the coastal refinery before landing on a landing pad. Due to its damaged landing gear, the Falcon was lopsided. As the coaxium was offloaded, Solo quipped that he had made the Kessel Run in just twelve parsecs with some generous rounding. Han put his arm around an un-amused Lando, who was grieving over the loss of L-3 and was furious at the damage to his ship. He told Han that he would be waiting aboard his quarters for his share of the money and vowed not to see him again.[9]

Han found Qi'ra at a bar in the nearby Pnakotic Coast village and asked when Vos was coming. Qi'ra reassured him that he would get paid for doing his job. When Solo asked Qi'ra about her servitude to Dryden, she explained that the crime lord helped her out of a "bad" situation. He asked how long it would take her to pay off her debt. Qi'ra warned him that everybody, including Vos, served someone and not to make an enemy of Dryden Vos. Han said he could take care of himself and was no longer the "kid" she knew on Corellia. When Qi'ra asked who he was, Han said he was an outlaw. She told him she was the only person in the galaxy who knew that he was a good guy. Han disagreed and said he was a terrible person. Beckett reminded the two about the coaxium.[9]

While walking through the village, Han and his companions noticed that much of it lay in ruins and that the inhabitants were impoverished. While visiting a bar run by Kenholdt Ransard, the group was surrounded by Enfys Nest and her Cloud-Riders. Han tried to lift his blaster out of his holster, but Beckett counseled him not to. Solo attempted to intimidate the Cloud-Riders by claiming to have a complement of armed mercenaries aboard the Millennium Falcon. However, Lando took off aboard the Falcon, leaving Han and his companions behind. Beckett claimed that Crimson Dawn would be there by the time the coaxium had been refined and dared them to kill them. Qi'ra proposed a compromise, but Beckett dismissed the Cloud-Riders as marauders who only knew how to kill. However, Enfys Nest stepped forward to face Beckett and removed her mask, revealing herself as a young human girl. She walked past a shocked Beckett and told them that she needed a drink.[9]

Inside the bar, Enfys told Han and his companions how the Crimson Dawn originated from a band of mercenaries who plundered a planet. When the inhabitants rebelled, the mercenaries responded by cutting off the tongues of every last man, woman, and child. Enfys explained that she and the Cloud-Riders were from populations who had been terrorized by the Crimson Dawn and the other Five Crime Syndicates. She warned Han and his companions that the Crimson Dawn would use the stolen coaxium to plunder more systems. When Han asked what the Cloud-Riders would use the coaxium for, she told them that they needed the coaxium for their rebel cause.[9]

Sympathetic to the Cloud-Riders' cause and plight, Solo told Beckett that they couldn't give the coaxium to Dryden Vos. Beckett didn't care and asked Solo if he had a plan. Solo said he had a plan to get their money without giving up the coaxium. Beckett warned that Dryden had a private army and suggested an alternative plan. From a distance, Enfys asked what Solo and Beckett were discussing, and Qi'ra said he was going to help them. After their meeting, Beckett invited Solo to come with him, but Han declined the offer. Before leaving, Beckett told Han that he was going to Tatooine, where a big-shot gangster was recruiting a crew for a job. Beckett saw it as an opportunity to pay off his debts.[9]

Dealing with Dryden
When Dryden Vos landed on his yacht First Light by the Pnakotic Coast, Han, along with Qi'ra and Chewbacca, went to deliver the purportedly "fake" coaxium canisters to the Crimson Dawn crime lord. Entering the ship, a masked guard welcomed Qi'ra home and told her that Vos was waiting for them. When he asked about Han and Chewie's weapons, Qi'ra vouched for them. The trio traveled up the turbolift. Han was confident of winning, but Qi'ra said that the trick was surviving rather than winning. Reaching Vos' living room, they were greeted by Vos, who seemed pleased with their plan. Qi'ra claimed that Beckett did not survive while Han claimed that Beckett died saving his life on Kessel. Vos expressed admiration for Beckett's principles and thanked Han and his team for following his example. Qi'ra claimed Han and Chewbacca would make good mercenaries with their own ship. Vos was pleased that his top lieutenant Qi'ra survived.[9]

When Han asked for payment, Vos asked to see the coaxium. Han opened the storage vial and brought out a sample of the processed coaxium. When Vos asked to see one, Han claimed it was volatile but complied when Vos insisted. Vos surprised Solo's team by announcing that the coaxium was fake and revealed that he was aware of Han's plan to sell the real shipment to the Cloud-Riders. Han thought Qi'ra betrayed him, but Vos responded that Qi'ra had a weak spot for Solo. Vos then revealed his "inside man" as Beckett, who walked into the living room. After "apologizing" to Han, Beckett reminded him about his "lesson" not to trust anybody. Beckett ordered Han to surrender while a guard checked the lid. A defiant Han responded that it was too late because Enfys Nest had it. Beckett responded that they had figured that as Captain Aemon Gremm and his Hylobon Enforcers stormed the nearby village, captured the masked "Cloud-Riders," and seized the coaxium containers. Vos asked Qi'ra what to do with the "traitor" Han. Qi'ra responded that she would want to know why and to prove their loyalty by sacrificing something they loved.[9]

One of Vos' guards raised a sword. Beckett said that he tried to warn Han about her. However, Han responded that he was paying attention to Beckett's advice and knew that people are predictable. Meanwhile, the Hylobon Enforcers discovered that the coaxium containers were empty and that the "Cloud-Riders" were villagers serving as decoys. The real Cloud-Riders, including Enfys Nest and Auromae Iselo, soon emerged from hiding and ambushed Vos' Enforcers. Han mockingly asked Vos if he sent all his enforcers. Beckett realized that the real coaxium was with Solo. Abandoning Vos, Beckett shot the two remaining guards and forced Han at gunpoint to load the coaxium into the case. He also took Chewbacca hostage and left with the coaxium containers. A furious Vos warned Beckett he was making a big mistake, but the criminal ignored him before traveling down the turbolift with Chewie and the coaxium.[9]

Once Beckett had left, Han grabbed his blaster and fired at Vos, who retrieved a pair of custom Kyuzo petars. Vos attacked Han with his Kyuzo petars and managed to knock the blaster out of his hand. Vos chased Han around the room, hurling his daggers. While Han was distracted with Vos, Qi'ra drew a sword and managed to pin Solo to the ground, knocking the blaster out of his hand. Qi'ra apologized while Vos said that Qi'ra was loyal to Crimson Dawn. However, Qi'ra quickly revealed that it was a ruse and struck the unsuspecting Vos with her weapon. Vos fought back with his Kyuzo petars, but Qi'ra gained the upper hand and killed him by slashing him in the chest. Qi'ra told Han to go after Chewbacca and Beckett, telling him that if they gave their coaxium to Enfys, they would need something else to buy a new ship. Before parting company, Qi'ra embraced Han and reminded him to look after Chewbacca and to smile. She told him that she would be right behind him.[9]

Solo and Chewbacca watch Qi'ra leave Savareen.
Solo and Chewbacca watch Qi'ra leave Savareen.

After Han left, Qi'ra removed Dryden Vos' signet ring and used it to seal the living room. Alone aboard Vos' yacht, Qi'ra contacted Vos' superior, the former Sith apprentice Maul. She informed him of the coaxium mission's failure and assumed Vos' position but carefully avoided telling him about Han's involvement, instead pinning the blame on Beckett. Using the Force to draw his dagger, Maul ordered Qi'ra to bring the yacht to the planet Dathomir and told her that together they would deal with the traitors, before stating that she would be working more closely with him in the future.[9]

Choosing allegiances
Meanwhile, Han caught up with Beckett and Chewbacca along the Pnakotic Coast. Beckett said that Han was relentless while Han told Chewie that he came as fast as he could. Han confirmed that Dryden was dead and that Qi'ra killed him. Beckett said that Han still didn't understand that Qi'ra was a survivor. Han responded that Beckett's problem was that he thought that everyone was like him. Beckett responded that Han was not like him. He tried to trick Han into lowering his guard by offering to tell something while reaching for his blaster.[9]

Before Beckett could shoot him, Han shot first, fatally wounding the gangster. Han helped up the dying Beckett who complimented Han for his quick thinking, admitting that he would have killed him had Han not reacted. Beckett praised Han for his courage on the Vandor mountain before breathing his last. Han watched as Qi'ra departed on the yacht First Light, having given Solo a clean break from his debts to the Crimson Dawn. Qi'ra watched Han and Chewbacca from the viewport. Chewie put a comforting hand on Han.[9]

Following the deaths of Vos and Beckett, Han and Chewbacca delivered the refined coaxium to Nest, who revealed her plans to use the coaxium, which was worth 60 million credits, to aid the rebellion against the Empire. She offered Han the chance to join her, but he declined. In response, Nest stated that someday he might feel more sympathetic to the rebels' cause. Out of gratitude for his help, Nest gave Solo a vial of coaxium, enough to buy a ship for himself.[9]

Further adventures
"You thinking what I'm thinking?"
―Solo to Chewbacca on Savareen[32]
Following their departure from Savareen, Chewie and Solo paired up on various jobs, including one where they were riding a 74-Z speeder bike under fire and another where Solo was tied up. Eventually, they found their way to Numidian Prime.[32]

Winning the Falcon
"Fair and square, baby. Fair and square."
―Han Solo[9]
Han used his coaxium as a buy-in to play sabacc with Lando and win the Millennium Falcon.
Han used his coaxium as a buy-in to play sabacc with Lando and win the Millennium Falcon.

Elsewhere, Han and Chewbacca soon tracked down Lando to a jungle outpost on Numidian Prime, where Lando was regaling patrons about his adventures in StarCave Nebula. Han chided Lando for leaving them on Savareen before embracing him. When Lando asked for his cut, Han replied he was not getting any since they barely survived their last adventure. After exchanging pleasantries, Han again challenged Lando to a sabacc game for possession of the Falcon. Han had previously subtly relieved Lando of the cards stashed up his sleeve and therefore won the game.[9]

After acquiring the Falcon, Han told Chewbacca that he planned to go to Tatooine, where Beckett told him that a gangster was putting together an organization. The Falcon then jumped into hyperspace.[9]

Captain of the Millennium Falcon
New adventures
Han and Chewie in the cockpit of their newly acquired Millennium Falcon
Han and Chewie in the cockpit of their newly acquired Millennium Falcon

The Falcon instantly became Solo's most prized possession. With their newly acquired ship and confidence, Solo and Chewbacca began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers.[33] Around the same time, Chewbacca hung Han's pair of chance cubes above the freighter's piloting console.[34] At some point during their travels, the two met Dash Rendar.[23]

Solo and Chewbacca also became acquainted with the infamous Tonnika sisters, but the many events that occurred between both parties left their relationship soured.[35] On one occasion, Solo and Calrissian attended a party aboard a casino starship, aboard which they met up with the sisters, on the Hydian Way.[36] One event—remembered by the sisters as the "Lando ordeal"—was Solo's idea, but he blamed them for what happened.[35] Calrissian's business partner Lobot also became familiar with Solo.[37]

Chewie's day off
"Tell you what. You need a break."
―Han Solo, to Chewbacca[38]
Solo piloted the Falcon through an asteroid field during a run to sell marked sabacc decks to the casino on Marquinn. He told Chewbacca to take the day off while he sold marked sabacc decks to the casino's owner Zefin Tuzo. During Chewbacca's day off, he countered a criminal named Vullen Candroon which wanted to kill Chewbacca. Chewbacca escaped Candroon but ran into Zefin Tuzo, who was working with Vullen. Later, Chewbacca managed to escape Candroon and Tuzo. Meanwhile Han was talking to patrons in the casino. Chewbacca immediately ran into the casino to get Han because he was getting chased by Candroon and Tuzo. Later, Han and Chewbacca managed to escape aboard the Millennium Falcon.[38]

Chased by Kallus
"You've made quite a name for yourself."
―Alexsandr Kallus to Han Solo[39]
Solo confronted by ISB Agent Kallus
Solo confronted by ISB Agent Kallus

Imperial Security Bureau agent Alexsandr Kallus hired the bounty hunter IG-88 to assist in tracking down Solo, with the intention of bringing the smuggler to justice for defecting from the Empire and assisting Enfys Nest. Solo and Chewbacca fled the two, and escaped capture by flying the Falcon between two Imperial Star Destroyers.[39]

The Cordaxian Sea
"Kill you...kill you both for this..."
―Frax to Han Solo[40]
Frax points his gun at Han Solo.
Frax points his gun at Han Solo.

Some time after escaping Kallus,[39] Solo and Chewbacca were transporting two tons of Cordaxian ore on the planet Odona, with the help of Frax, a Kajain'sa'Nikto. They were pursued by the Empire, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Imperial prison, pulled a blaster on Han. Chewbacca did a barrel roll with the Millennium Falcon, knocking Frax off the ship into the Cordaxian Sea. Han and Chewbacca escaped the Empire and Odona, but they left Frax behind.[40]

StennessSermon One
He was born in the ash among the Velothi, anon Chimer, before the war with the northern men. Ayem came first to the village of the netchimen, and her shadow was that of Boethiah, who was the Prince of Plots, and things unknown and known would fold themselves around her until they were like stars or the messages of stars. Ayem took a netchiman's wife and said:

'I am the Face-Snaked Queen of the Three in One. In you is an image and a seven-syllable spell, AYEM AE SEHTI AE VEHK, which you will repeat to it until mystery comes.'
Then Ayem threw the netchiman's wife into the ocean water where dreughs took her into castles of glass and coral. They gifted the netchiman's wife with gills and milk fingers, changing her sex so that she might give birth to the image as an egg. There she stayed for seven or eight months.

Then Seht came to the netchiman's wife and said:

'I am the Clockwork King of the Three in One. In you is an egg of my brother-sister, who possesses invisible knowledge of words and swords, which you shall nurture until the Hortator comes.'
And Seht then extended his hands and multitudes of homunculi came forth, each like a glimmering rope through the water, and they raised the netchiman's wife back to the surface world and set her down on the shoals of Azura's coast. There she lay for seven or eight more months, caring for the egg-knowledge by whispering to it the Codes of Mephala and the prophecies of Veloth and even the forbidden teachings of Trinimac.

Seven Daedra came to her one night and each one gave to the egg new motions that could be achieved by certain movements of the bones. These are called the Barons of Move Like This. Then an eighth Daedroth came, and he was a Demiprince, called Fa-Nuit-Hen, or the Multiplier of Motions Known. And Fa-Nuit-Hen said:

'Whom do you wait for?'
To which the netchiman's wife said the Hortator.

'Go to the land of the Indoril in three months' time, for that is when war comes. I return now to haunt the warriors who fell and still wonder why. But first I show you this.'
Then the Barons and the Demiprince joined together into a pillar of fighting styles terrible to behold and they danced before the egg and its learning image.

'Look, little Vehk, and find the face behind the splendor of my bladed carriage, for in it is delivered the unmixed conflict path, perfect in every way. What is its number?'
It is said the number is the number of birds that can nest in an ancient tibrol tree, less three grams of honest work, but Vivec in his later years found a better one and so gave this secret to his people.

'For I have crushed a world with my left hand,' he will say, 'but in my right hand is how it could have won against me. Love is under my will only.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Two
The netchiman's wife who carried the egg of Vivec within her went looking for the lands of the Indoril. Along the journey many spirits came to see her and offer instructions to her son-daughter, the future glorious invisible warrior-poet of Vvardenfell, Vivec.

The first spirit threw his arms about her and hugged his knowledge in tight. The netchiman's wife became soaked in the Incalculable Effort. The egg was delighted and did somersaults inside her, bowing to the five corners of the world and saying:

'Thus whoever performs this holy act shall be proud and mighty among the rest!'
The second spirit was too aloof and acted above his station so much that he was driven off by a headache spell. The third spirit, At-Hatoor, came down to the netchiman's wife while she relaxed for a while under an Emperor Parasol. His garments were made from implications of meaning, and the egg looked at them three times. The first time Vivec said:

'Ha, it means nothing!'
After looking a second time he said:

'Hmm, there might be something there after all.'
Finally, giving At-Hatoor's garments a sidelong glance, he said:

'Amazing, the ability to infer significance in something devoid of detail!'
'There is a proverb,' At-Hatoor said, and then he left.
The fourth spirit came with the fifth, for they were cousins. They could ghost touch and probed inside the egg to find its core. Some say Vivec at this point was shaped like a star with its penumbra broken off; others, that it looked like a revival of vanished forms.

'From my side of the family,' the first cousin said, 'I bring you a series of calamities that will bring about the end of the universe.'
'And from my side,' the second cousin said, 'I bring you all the primordial marriages that must happen within them, each one.'
At this the egg laughed. 'I am given too much to bear so young. I must have been born before.'

And then the sixth spirit appeared, the Black Hands Mephala, who taught the Velothi at the beginning of days all the arts of sex and murder. Its burning heart melted the eyes of the netchiman's wife and took the egg from her belly with six cutting strokes. The egg-image, however, could see into what it had been before in ancient times, when the earth still cooled, and was not blinded.

It joined with the Daedroth and took its former secrets, leaving a few behind to keep the web of the world from disentangling. Then the Black Hands Mephala put the egg back into the netchiman's wife and blew on her with magic breath until the hole closed up. But the Daedroth did not give her back her eyes, saying:

'God hath three keys; of birth, of machines, and of the words between.'
Within this Sermon the wise may find one half of these keys.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Three
Being blind the netchiman's wife wandered into a cave on her way to the domains of House Indoril. It so happened that this cave was a Dwemeri stronghold. The Dwemer spied the egg and captured the netchiman's wife. They bound her head to foot and brought her deep within the earth.

She heard one say, 'Go and make a simulacrum of her and place it back on the surface, for she has something akin to what we have and so the Velothi will covet it and notice if she is too long away.'

In the darkness, the netchiman's wife felt great knives try to cut her open. When the knives did not work, the Dwemer used solid sounds. When those did not work, great heat was brought to bear. Nothing was of any use, and the egg of Vivec remained safe within her.

A Dwemer said, 'Nothing is of any use. We must go and misinterpret this.'

Vivec felt that his mother was afraid, and so consoled her.

'The fire is mine: let it consume thee,
And make a secret door
At the altar of Padhome,
In the House of Boet-hi-Ah
Where we become safe
And looked after.'
This old prayer made the netchiman's wife smile and begin such a deep sleep that when Dwemeri atronachs returned with cornered spheres and cut her apart she did not awake and died peacefully. Vivec was removed from her womb and placed within a magical glass for further study. To confound his captors, he channeled his essence into love, an emotion the Dwemer knew nothing about.

The egg said: 'Love is used not only as a constituent in moods and affairs, but also as the raw material from which relationships produce hour-later exasperations, regrettably fashioned restrictions, riddles laced with affections known only to the loving couple, and looks that linger too long. Love is also an often-used ingredient in some transparent verbal and nonverbal transactions where, eventually, it can sometimes be converted to a variety of true devotions, some of which yield tough, insoluble, and infusible unions. In its basic form, love supplies approximately thirteen draughts of all energy that is derived from relationships. Its role and value in society at large are controversial.'

The Dwemer were vexed at these words and tried to hide behind their power symbols. They sent their atronachs to remove the egg-image from their cave and place it within the simulacrum they had made of Vivec's mother.

A Dwemer said, 'We Dwemer are only aspirants to this that the Velothi have. They shall be our doom in this and the eight known worlds, NIRN, LHKAN, RKHET, THENDR, KYNRT, AKHAT, MHARA, and JHUNAL.'
The secret to doom is within this Sermon.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Four
The simulacrum of the netchiman's wife who carried the egg of Vivec within it went back to looking for the lands of the Indoril. Along the journey many more spirits came to see it and offer instructions to its son-daughter, the future glorious invisible warrior-poet of Vvardenfell, Vivec.

A troupe of spirits called the Lobbyists for the Coincidence Guild appeared. Vivec understood the challenge immediately and said:

'The popular notion of God kills happenstance.'

The head of the Lobbyists, whose name is forgotten, tried to defend the concept's existence. He said, 'Saying something at the same time can be magical.'

Vivec knew that to retain his divinity that he must make a strong argument against luck. He said:

'Is not the sudden revelation of corresponding conditions and disparate elements that gel at the moment of the coincidence one of the prerequisites to being, in fact, coincidental? Synchronicity comes out of repeated coincidences at the lowest level. Further examination shows it is the utter power of the sheer number of coincidences that leads one to the idea that synchronicity is guided by something more than chance. Therefore, synchronicity ends up invalidating the concept of the coincidental, even though they are the symptomatic signs that bring it to the surface.'

Thus was coincidence destroyed in the land of the Velothi.

Then an Old Bone of the earth rose up before the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife and said, 'If you are to be born a ruling king of the world you must confuse it with new words. Set me into pondering.'

'Very well,' Vivec said, 'Let me talk to you of the world, which I share with mystery and love. Who is her capital? Have you taken the scenic route of her cameo? I have-- lightly, in secret, missing candles because they're on the untrue side, and run my hand along the edge of a shadow made from one hundred and three divisions of warmth, and left no proof.'

At this the Old Bone folded unto itself twenty times until it became akin to milk, which Vivec drank, becoming a ruling king of the world.

Finally the Chancellor of Exactitude appeared, and he was perfect to look upon from every angle. Vivec understood the challenge immediately and said:

'Certitude is for the puzzle-box logicians and girls of white glamour who harbor it on their own time. I am a letter written in uncertainty.'

The Chancellor bowed his head and smiled fifty different and perfect ways all at once. He pulled the astrolabe of the universe from his robe and broke it in half, handing both halves to the egg-image of Vivec.

Vivec laughed and said, 'Yes, I know. The slave labor of the senses is as selfish as polar ice, and worsens when energies are spent on a life others regard as fortunate. To be a ruling king I will have to suffer much that cannot be suffered, and to weigh matters that no astrolabe or compass can measure.'

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Five
Finally the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife became unstable. The Dwemer in their haste had built it shoddily and the ashes of Red Mountain slowed its golden tendons. Before long it fell on its knees beside the road to the lands of the Indoril and pitched over, to be discovered eighty days later by a merchant caravan on its way to the capital of Veloth, anon Almalexia.

Vivec had not been among his people all the days of his pre-life so he stayed silent and let the Chimer in the caravan think that the simulacrum was broken and empty.
A Chimeri warrior, who was protecting the caravan, said, 'Look here how the Dwemer try to fool us as ever, crafting our likenesses out of their flesh-metals. We should take this to the capital and show our mother Ayem. She will want to see this new strategy of our enemies.'

But the merchant captain said, 'I doubt that we shall be paid well for the effort. We can make more money if we stop at Noormoc and sell it to the Red Wives of Dagon, who pay well for the wonders made by the Deep Folk.'

But another Chimer, who was wise in the ways of prophecy, looked on the simulacrum with disquietude. 'Was I not hired on to help you seek the best of fortunes? I say you should listen to your warrior, then, and take this thing to Ayem, for though manufactured by our enemies there is something in it that will become sacred, or has been already.'

The merchant captain took pause then and looked on the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife and, though he heeded always the advice of his seers, could do no more than think of the profits to be made at Noormoc. He thought mainly of the Red Wives' form of recompense, which was four-cornered and good wounded, a belly-magic known nowhere else under the moons. His lust made him deny Ayem his mother. He gave order to change course for Noormoc.

Before the caravan could get underway again, the Chimeri warrior who had counseled a passage to the capital threw his money to the merchant captain and said, 'I will pay you thus for the simulacrum and warn you: war is coming with the shaggy men of the north and I will not have my mother Ayem at uneven odds with one enemy while tending to another.'

'Nerevar,' the merchant captain said, 'this is not enough. I am Triune in my own way, but I follow the road of my body and demand more.'
Then Vivec could not remain silent anymore and said into Nerevar's head these words:

'You can hear the words, so run away
Come, Hortator, unfold into a clear unknown,
Stay quiet until you've slept in the yesterday,
And say no elegies for the melting stone'
So Nerevar slew the merchant captain and took the caravan for his own.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Six
You have discovered the sixth Sermon of Vivec, which was hidden in the words that came next to the Hortator.

There is an eon within itself that when unraveled becomes the first sentence of the world.

Mephala and Azura are the twin gates of tradition and Boethiah is the secret flame.

The Sun shall be eaten by lions, which cannot be found yet in Veloth.

Six are the vests and garments worn by the suppositions of men.

Proceed only with the simplest terms, for all others are enemies and will confuse you.

Six are the formulas to heaven by violence, one that you have learned by studying these words.

The Father is a machine and the mouth of a machine. His only mystery is an invitation to elaborate further.

The Mother is active and clawed like a nix-hound, yet she is the holiest of those that reclaim their days.

The Son is myself, Vehk, and I am unto three, six, nine, and the rest that come after, glorious and sympathetic, without borders, utmost in the perfections of this world and the others, sword and symbol, pale like gold.

There is a fourth kind of philosophy that uses nothing but disbelief.

For by the sword I mean the sensible.

For by the word I mean the dead.

I am Vehk, your protector and the protector of Red Mountain until the end of days, which are numbered 3333.

Below me is the savage, which we needed to remove ourselves from the Altmer.

Above me is a challenge, which bathes itself in fire and the essence of a god.

Through me you are desired, unlike the prophets that have borne your name before.

Six are the walking ways, from enigma to enemy to teacher.

Boethiah and Azura are the principles of the universal plot, which is begetting, which is creation, and Mephala makes of it an art form.

For by the sword I mean the first night.

For by the word I mean the dead.

There will be a splendor in your name when it is said to be true.

Six are the guardians of Veloth, three before and they are born again, and they will test you until you have the proper tendencies of the hero.

There is a world that is sleeping and you must guard against it.

For by the sword I mean the dual nature.

For by the word I mean animal life.

For by the sword I mean preceded by a sigh.

For by the word I mean preceded by a wolf.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Seven
As the caravan of Nerevar now made for the capital of Veloth, anon Almalexia, there came great rumblings from the oblivion. A duke among scamps wandered into the House of Troubles, pausing before each scripture door to pay his respects, until finally he was met by the major domo of Mehrunes Dagon.

The Duke of Scamps said, 'I was summoned by Lord Dagon, master of the foul waters and fire, and I have brought the pennants of my seven legions.'

The major domo, whose head was a bubble of foul water and fire, bowed low, so that the head of the Duke of Scamps became enclosed in his own.

He saw the first pennant, which commanded a legion of grim warriors who could die at least twice.

He saw the second pennant, which commanded a legion of winged bulls and the emperor of color that rode upon each.

He saw the third pennant, which commanded a legion of inverted gorgons, great snakes whose scales were the faces of men.

He saw the fourth pennant, which commanded a legion of double-crossed lovers.

He saw the fifth pennant, which commanded a legion of jumping wounds looking to hop onto a victim.

He saw the sixth pennant, which commanded a legion of abridged planets.

He saw the seventh pennant, which commanded a legion of armored winning moves.

To which the major domo said, 'Duke Kh-Utta, your legions while mighty are not enough to destroy Nerevar or the Triune way. Look upon the Hortator and see the wisdom he takes to wife.'

And they looked into the middle world and saw:

Evaporating in a throng of thunder
Of red war and chitin men,
Where destines
Take him further from our ways
The heat that we have wanted
And pray they still remember,
Where destines
Clothe the distance,
Glad in the golden east that we saw it now,
Instead of the war and repair
Of the oblivious fracture
A curse on the Hortator
And two more on his hands
And the Duke of Scamps saw the palms of the Hortator, upon which the egg had written these words of power: GHARTOK PADHOME GHARTOK PADHOME.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Eight
And presently Nerevar and Vivec were within sight of the capital and the Four Corners of the House of Troubles knew that it was not time to contest them. The caravan musicians made a great song of entrance and the eleven gates of the Mourning Hold were thrown wide.

Ayem was accompanied by her husband-state, a flickering image that was channeled to her ever-changing female need. Around her were the Shouts, a guild now forgotten, who carried with them the whims of the people, for the Velothi then were still mostly good at heart. The Shouts were the counselors of Ayem and the country, though they sometimes quarreled and needed Seht to wring them into usefulness. Ayem approached Nerevar, who was by now adorned in the flags of House Indoril. He gifted her with the simulacrum of the netchiman's wife and the egg of Vivec inside.

Ayem said to Nerevar, 'Seht who is Azura has revealed that war is come and that the Hortator that shall deliver us will approach with a solution walking at his side.'

Nerevar said, 'I have traveled out of my way to warn you of the deceit of our enemies, the Dwemer, but I have learned much on the journey and have changed my mind. This netchiman's wife you see at my side is a sword and a symbol and there is prophecy inside. It tells me that, like it, we must for awhile be like he is and, as a people, cloaked in our former enemies, and to use their machines without shame.'

At which Vivec spoke aloud, 'Boethiah-who-is-you wore the skin of Trinimac to cleanse the faults of Veloth, my Queen, and so it should be again. This is the walking way of the glorious.'
Seht appeared out of a cloud of iron vapor and his minions made of their blood a chair. He sat beside Ayem and looked on the rebirth of mastery.
Vivec said to them, his Triune:

'My rituals and ordeals and all the rhymes within,
Use no other motive than the revelation of my skin.'
Ayem said, 'AYEM AE SEHTI AE VEHK. We are delivered and made whole, the diamond of the Black Hands is uncovered.'
Seht said, 'Wherever so he treads, there is invisible scripture.'
To which the Shouts were silent in sudden reading.

Vivec then reached out from the egg all his limbs and features, merging with the simulacrum of his mother, gilled and blended in all the arts of the star-wounded East, under water and in fire and in metal and in ash, six times the wise, and he became the union of male and female, the magic hermaphrodite, the martial axiom, the sex-death of language and unique in all the middle world.
He said, 'Let us now guide the hands of the Hortator in war and its aftermath. For we go different, and in thunder. This is our destiny.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Nine
Then came the war with the northern men, where Vivec did guide the Hortator into swift and tricky union with the Dwemer. The greatest demon chieftains of the frigid west were those listed below, five in unholy number.

HOAGA, the Mouth of Mud, who appeared as a great bearded king, had the powers of Marshalling and breathing the earth. On the battlefields, this demon would often be seen on the sidelines, eating the soil voraciously. When his men fell, Hoaga would fill their bodies back with it, whereupon they would rise again and fight, albeit slower. He had a Secret Name, Fenja, and destroyed seventeen Chimeri villages and two Dwemeri strongholds before being turned away.

CHEMUA, the Running Hunger, who appeared as a mounted soldier with full helm, had the powers of Heart Roaring and of sky sickening. He ate the Chimeri hero, Dres Khizumet-e, sending the spirit back to the Hortator as an assassin. Sometimes called First Blighter, Chemua could give clouds stomach aches and turn the rain of Veloth into bile. He destroyed six Chimeri villages before he was slain by Vivec and the Hortator.

BHAG, the Two-Tongued, who appeared as a great bearded king, had the powers of Surety and Form Change. His raiders were small in number, but ran amok in the west hinterlands, killing many Velothi trappers and scouts. He fell in a great debate with Vivec, for the warrior-poet alone could understand the northern man's two-layered speech, though ALMSIVI had to remain invisible during the argument.

BARFOK, Maid of Planes, who appeared as a winged human with lick-encrusted spear, had the powers of Event Denouement. Battles fought against her would always end in victory for Barfok, because she could shape outcomes by singing. Four Chimeri villages and two more Dwemeri strongholds were destroyed by her decision enforcement. Vivec had to stuff her mouth with his milk finger to keep her from singing Veloth into ruin.

YSMIR, the Dragon of the North, who always appears as a great bearded king, had powers innumerable and echoing. He was grim and dark and the most silent of the invading chieftains, though when he spoke villages were uplifted and thrown into the sea. The Hortator fought him unarmed, grabbing the Dragon's roars by hand until Ysmir's power throat bled. These roars were given to Vivec to bind into an ebony listening frame, which the warrior-poet placed on Ysmir's face and ears to drive him mad and drive him away.

'The coming forth and the driving away brings all things around. What I shall say next is unpleasant to record: HERMA-MORA-ALTADOON! AE ALTADOON!'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Ten
You have discovered the tenth Sermon of Vivec, which was hidden in the words that came in the aftermath to the Hortator.

The evoker shall raise his left hand empty and open, to indicate he needs no weapons of his own. The coming forth is always hidden, so the evoker is always invisible or, better, in the skin of his enemies.

'The eyelid of the kingdom shall fill thirty and six folios, but the eye shall read the world.' By this the Hortator needs me to understand.
The sword is an impatient signature. Write no contracts on the dead.
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Boet-hi-ah:
We pledge ourselves to you, the Frame-maker, the Scarab: a world for us to love you in, a cloak of dirt to cherish. Betrayed by your ancestors when you were not even looking. Hoary Magnus and his ventured opinions cannot sway the understated, a trick worthy of the always satisfied. A short season of towers, a rundown absolution, and what is this, what is this but fire under your eyelid?

Shift ye in your skin, I say to the Trinimac-eaters. Pitch your voices into the color of bruise. Divide ye like your enemies, in Houses, and lay your laws in set sequence from the center, again like the enemy Corners of the House of Troubles, and see yourself thence as timber, or mud-slats, or sheets of resin. Then do not divide, for yet is the stride of SITHISIT quicker than the rush of enemies, and He will sunder the whole for the sake of a shingle.

For we go different, and in thunder. SITHISIT is the start of all true Houses, built against stasis and lazy slaves. Turn from your predilections, broken like false maps. Move and move like this. Quicken against false fathers, mothers left in corners weeping for glass and rain. Stasis asks merely for nothing, for itself, which is nothing, as you were in the eight everlasting imperfections.

Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
UNDERSTAND THAT SITHISIT STILL TRAVELS
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
IN A PHOSPHORESCENT MIRROR OF THE SKY
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
DROWNED AND SMILING
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
INTERMITTENT HOPES ENOUGH
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
TO ANSWER ALL THE THINGS
Vivec says unto the Hortator remember the words of Vivec.
NOT YET QUERIED
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Eleven
These were the days of Resdaynia, when Chimer and Dwemer lived under the wise and benevolent rule of the AMLSIVI and their champion the Hortator. When the gods of Veloth would retreat unto their own, to mold the cosmos and other matters, the Hortator would at times become confused. Vivec would always be there to advise him, and this is the first of the three lessons of ruling kings:

'The waking world is the amnesia of dream. All motifs can be mortally wounded. Once slain, themes turn into the structure of future nostalgia. Do not abuse your powers or they will lead you astray. They will leave you like rebellious daughters. They will lose their virtue. They will become lost and resentful and finally become pregnant with the seed of folly. Soon you will be the grandparent of a broken state. You will be mocked. It will fall apart like a stone that recalls that it is really water.
"Keep nothing in your house that is neither needed or beautiful.
"Ordeals you should face unimpeded by the world of restriction. The splendor of stars is Ayem's domain. The selfishness of the sea is Seht's. I rule the middle air. All else is earth and under your temporal command. There is no bone that cannot be broken, except for the heart bone. You will see it twice in your lifetimes. Take what you can the first time and let us do the rest.
"There is no true symbolism of the center. The Sharmat will believe there is. He will feel that he can cause years of exuberance from sitting in the sacred, when really no one can leave that state and cause anything more but strife.
"There is once more the case of the symbolic and barren. The true prince that is cursed and demonized will be adored at last with full hearts. According to the Codes of Mephala there can be no official art, only fixation points of complexity that will erase from the awe of the people given enough time. This is a secret that hides another. An impersonal survival is not the way of the ruling king. Embrace the art of the people and marry it and by that I mean secretly have it murdered.
"The ruling king that sees in another his equivalent rules nothing.
"The secret of weapons is this: they are the mercy seat.
"The secret of language is this: it is immobile.
"The ruling king is armored head to toe in brilliant flame. He is redeemed by each act he undertakes. His death is only a diagram back to the waking world. He sleeps the second way. The Sharmat is his double, and therefore you wonder if you rule nothing.
"Hortator and Sharmat, one and one, eleven, an inelegant number. Which of the ones is the more important? Could you ever tell if they switched places? I can and that is why you will need me.
"According to the Codes of Mephala, there is no difference between the theorist and the terrorist. Even the most cherished desire disappears in their hands. This is why Mephala has black hands. Bring both of yours to every argument. The one-handed king finds no remedy. When you approach God, however, cut both of them off. God has no need of theory and he is armored head to toe in terror."
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twelve
As the Hortator pondered the first lesson of ruling kings, Vivec wandered into the Mourning Hold and found that Ayem was with a pair of lovers. Seht had divided himself again. Vivec then leapt through into their likenesses to observe, but he gained no secrets that he did not already know. He left a few of his own behind to make the journey worthwhile.

Then Vivec left the capital of Veloth and wandered far into the ash. He found a span of badlands to practice his giant-form. He made of his feet a less dense material than the divine to keep from falling waist-deep into the earth. At this point the First Corner of the House of Troubles, the Prince Molag Bal, made his presence known.

Vivec looked on the King of Rape and said:

'How very beautiful you are, that you do not join us.'
And Molag Bal crushed the warrior-poet's feet, which were not invulnerable, and had legions cleave them off. Mighty fires from the Beginning Place were brought like nets to hold Vivec and he let them.

'I would prefer,' he said, 'some kind of ceremony if we are to be married.'
And the legions that took the feet were summoned again and ordered to begin a banquet. Pomegranates sprang from the badlands and tents were raised. A throng of Velothi mystics came, reading the passages of the severed feet on the ground and weeping until the scriptures were wet.

'We must love each other briefly,' Vivec said, 'if at all. I am needed to counsel the Hortator in more important matters because the Dwemeri high priests stir up trouble. You may have my head for an hour.'
Molag Bal rose up and extended six arms to show his worth. They were decorated in runes of seduction and its reverse. They were decorated in the annotated calendars of longer worlds. When he spoke, mating monsters fell out.

'Where must it go?' he said.
'I told you,' Vivec said, 'I am meant to be the teacher of the king of the earth. AE ALTADOON GHARTOK PADHOME.'
With these magic words, the King of Rape added another: 'CHIM,' which is the secret syllable of royalty.

Vivec had what he needed from the Daedroth and so married him that day. In the hour that Bal had his head, the King of Rape asked for proof of love.

Vivec spoke two poems to show him such, but only the first is known.

I'm not sure just how much glass it took to make your hair
Twice as much, I am sure, as the oceans have to share
Hell, my sweet, is a fiction written by those who tell the truth
My mouth is skilled at lying and its alibi a tooth
The sons and daughters of Vivec and Molag Bal number in the thousands. The name of the mightiest is a string of power: GULGA MOR JIL HYAET AE HOOM.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirteen
These were the days of Resdaynia, when Chimer and Dwemer lived under the wise and benevolent rule of the AMLSIVI and their champion the Hortator. When the gods of Veloth would retreat unto their own, to mold the cosmos and other matters, the Hortator would at times become confused. Vivec would always be there to advise him, and this is the second of the three lessons of ruling kings:

'The secret syllable of royalty is this: (You must learn this elsewhere.)
'The temporal myth is man.
'The magical cross is an integration of the worth of mortals at the expense of their spirits. Surround it with the triangle and you begin to see the Triune house. It becomes divided into corners, which are ruled by our brethren, the Four Corners: BAL DAGON MALAC SHEOG. Rotate the triangle and you pierce the heart of the Beginning Place, the foul lie, the testament of the irrefutable-for-a-span. Above them all is the horizon where only one stands, though no one stands there yet. It is proof of the new. It is the promise of the wise. Unfold the whole and what you have is a star, which is not my domain, but not entirely outside my judgment. The grand design takes flight; it is transformed not only into a star but a hornet. The center cannot hold. It becomes devoid of lines and points. It becomes devoid of anything and so becomes a receptacle. This is its usefulness at the end. This is its promise.
'The sword is the cross and ALMSIVI is the Triune house around it. If there is to be an end I must be removed. The ruling king must know this, and I will test him. I will murder him time and again until he knows this. I am the defender of the last and the last. To remove me is to refill the heart that lay dormant at the center that cannot hold. I am the sword, Ayem the star, Seht the mechanism that allows the transformation of the world. Ours is the duty to keep the compromise from being filled with black sea.
'The Sharmat sleeps at the center. He cannot bear to see it removed, the world of reference. This is the folly of the false dreamer. This is the amnesia of dream, or its power, or its circumvention. This is the weaker magic and it is barbed in venom.
'This is why I say the secret to swords is the mercy seat. It is my throne. I am become the voice of ALMSIVI. The world will know me more than my sister and brother. I am the psychopomp. I am the killer of the weeds of Veloth. Veloth is the center that cannot hold. Ayem is the plot. Seht is the ending. I am the enigma that must be removed. These are why my words are armed to the teeth.
'The ruling king is to stand against me and then before me. He is to learn from my punishment. I will mark him to know. He is to come as male or female. I am the form he must acquire.
'Because a ruling king that sees in another his equivalent rules nothing.'
This is what was said to the Hortator when Vivec was not whole.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Fourteen
Vivec lay with Molag Bal for eighty days and eight, though headless. In that time, the Prince placed the warrior-poet's feet back and filled them with the blood of Daedra. In this way Vivec's giant-form remained forever harmless to good earth. The Pomegranate Banquet brought many spirits back from the dead so that the sons and daughters of the union had much to eat besides fruit.

The Duke of Scamps came while the banquet was still underway, and Molag Bal looked on the seven pennants with anger. The King of Rape had become necessary and therefore troubled for the rest of time. His legions and Kh-Utta's fell into open war, but the children of Molag Bal and Vivec were too elaborate in power and form.

The Duke of Scamps therefore became a lesser thing, as did all his own children. Molag Bal said to them: 'You are the sons of liars, dogs, and wolf-headed women.' They have been useless to summon ever since.

The holy one returned at last, Vehk, golden with wisdom. His head found its body had been tenderly used. He mentioned this to Molag Bal, who told him that he should thank the Barons of Move Like This, 'For I have yet to learn how to refine my rapture. My love is accidentally shaped like a spear.'

So Vivec, who had a grain of Ayem's mercy, set about to teach Molag Bal in the ways of belly-magic. They took their spears out and compared them. Vivec bit new words onto the King of Rape's so that it might give more than ruin to the uninitiated. This has since become a forbidden ritual, though people still practice it in secret.

Here is why: The Velothi and demons and monsters that were watching all took out their own spears. There was much biting and the earth became wet. And this was the last laugh of Molag Bal:

'Watch as the earth shall crack, heavy with so much power, that should have been forever unalike!'
Then that stretch of badlands that had been the site of the marriage fragmented and threw fire. And a race that is no more but that was terrible at the time to behold came forth. Born of the biters, that is all they did, and they ran amok across the lands of Veloth and even to the shores of Red Mountain.

But Vivec made of his spear a more terrible thing, from a secret he had bitten off from the King of Rape. And so he sent Molag Bal tumbling into the crack of the biters and swore forever that he would not deem the King beautiful ever again.

Vivec wept as he slew all those around him with his terrible new spear. He named it MUATRA, which is Milk Taker, and even the Chimeri mystics knew his fury. Anyone struck by Vivec at this time turned barren and withered into bone shapes. The path of bones became a sentence for the stars to read, and the heavens have never known children since. Vivec hunted down the biters one by one, and all their progeny, and he killed them all by means of the Nine Apertures, and the wise still hide theirs from Muatra.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Fifteen
These were the days of Resdaynia, when Chimer and Dwemer lived under the wise and benevolent rule of the AMLSIVI and their champion the Hortator. When the gods of Veloth would retreat unto their own, to mold the cosmos and other matters, the Hortator would at times become confused. Vivec would always be there to advise him, and this is the third of the three lessons of ruling kings:

'The ruling king will remove me, his maker. This is the way of all children. His greatest enemy is the Sharmat, who is the false dreamer. You or he is the shingle, Hortator. Beware the wrong walking path. Beware the crime of benevolence. Behold him by his words.'

I AM THE SHARMAT
I AM OLDER THAN MUSIC
WHAT I BRING IS LIGHT
WHAT I BRING IS A STAR
WHAT I BRING IS
AN ANCIENT SEA
WHEN YOU SLEEP YOU SEE ME
DANCING AT THE CORE
IT IS NOT A BLIGHT
IT IS MY HOUSE
I PUT A STAR
INTO THE WORLD'S MOUTH
TO MURDER IT
TEAR DOWN THE PYLONS
MY BLIND FISH
SWIM IN THE NEW
PHLOGISTON
TEAR DOWN THE PYLONS
MY DEAF MOONS
SING AND BURN
AND ORBIT ME
I AM OLDER THAN MUSIC
WHAT I BRING IS LIGHT
WHAT I BRING IS A STAR
WHAT I BRING IS
AN ANCIENT SEA
'You alone, though you come again and again, can unmake him. Whether I allow it is within my wisdom. Go unarmed into his den with these words of power: AE GHARTOK PADHOME [CHIM] AE ALTADOON. Or do not. The temporal myth is man. Reach heaven by violence. This magic I give to you: the world you will rule is only an intermittent hope and you must be the letter written in uncertainty.'

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Sixteen
The Hortator wandered through the Mourning Hold, wrestling with the lessons he had learned. They were slippery in his mind. He could not always keep the words straight and knew that this was a danger. He wandered to find Vivec, his lord and master, the glory of the image of Veloth, and found him of all places in the Temple of False Thinking. There, clockwork shears were taking off Vivec's hair. A beggar king had brought his loom and was making of the hair an incomplete map of adulthood and death.

Nerevar said, 'Why are you doing this, milord?'

Vivec said, 'To make room for the fire.'

And the Hortator could see that Vivec was out of sorts, though not because of the impending new power to come. The golden warrior-poet had been exercising his Water Face as well, learned from the dreughs before he was born.

Nerevar said, 'Is this to keep you from the fire?'

Vivec said, 'It is so that I may see with truth. It, and my place here at the altar of Padhome in the house of False Thinking, serve so that I may see beyond my own secrets. The Water Face cannot lie. It comes from the ocean, which is too busy to think, much less lie. Moving water resembles truth by its trembling.'

Nerevar said, 'I am afraid to become slipshod in my thinking.'

Vivec said, 'Reach heaven by violence then.'

So to quiet his mind the Hortator chose from the Fight Racks an axe. He named it and moved on to the first moon.

There, Nerevar was greeted by the Parliament of Craters, who knew him by title and resented his presence, for he was to be a ruling king of earth and this was the lunar realm. They shifted around him in a pattern of entrapment.

'The moon does not recognize crowns or scepters,' they said, 'nor the representatives of kingdoms below, lion or serpent or mathematician. We are the graves of those that have migrated and become ancient countries. We seek no Queens or thrones. Your appearance is decidedly solar, which is to say a library of stolen ideas. We are neither tear nor sorrow. Our revolution succeeded in the manner that is was written. You are the Hortator and unwelcome here.'
And so Nerevar carved at the grave ghosts until he was out of breath and their Parliament could make no new laws.

He said, 'I am not of the slaves that perish.'

Of the members of Parliament only a few survived the Hortator's attack.

A surviving Crater said, 'Appropriation is nothing new. Everything happens of itself. This motif is by no means unassociated with hero myths. You have not acted with the creative impulse; you fall below the weight of destiny. We are graves but not coffins. Know the difference. You have only dug more and supplied no ghosts to reside within. Central to your claim is the predominance of frail events. To be judged by the earth is to sit on a throne of wonder why. Damage us more and you will find naught but the absence of our dead.'

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Seventeen
'I am an atlas of smoke.'
With this, Vivec become greater than he had been. These were the days of Resdaynia, when Chimer and Dwemer lived under the wise and benevolent rule of the AMLSIVI and their champion the Hortator.

'Seek me without effort for I take many shapes.'
The Hortator was still trying to subdue the heavens with an axe. He was thrown out of the library of the sun by the power of Magnus. Vivec found him in a grub field outside of the swamps of the Deshaan Plain. They walked for a span in silence, for Nerevar had been humbled and Vivec still had mercy in his hand.

Soon they were walking across the eastern sea to the land of snakes and snow demons. Vivec wanted to show the Hortator the fighting styles of foreign tongues. They learned the idiom stroke from the pillow book of the Tsaesci king. It is shaped like the insight of this page. The Tsaesci serpents vowed to have their vengeance on the west at least three times.

They walked farther and saw the spiked waters at the edge of the map. Here the spirit of limitation gifted them with a spoke and bade them find the rest of the wheel.

The Hortator said, 'The edge of the world is made of swords.'

Vivec corrected him. 'They are the bottom row of the world's teeth.'

They walked to the north to the Elder Wood and found nothing but frozen bearded kings.

They came to the west where the black men dwelt. For a year they studied under their sword saints and then for another Vivec taught them the virtue of the little reward. Vivec chose a king for a wife and made another race of monsters which ended up destroying the west completely. To a warrior chief Vivec said:

'We must not act and speak as if asleep.'
Nerevar wondered if there was anything to learn in the south but Vivec remained silent and only led them back to Red Mountain.

'Here,' Vivec said, 'is the last of the last. Within it the Sharmat waits.'
But they both knew that the time was not ready to contest the Sharmat and so they engaged in combat with each other. Vivec marked the Hortator in this way for all of the Velothi to see. He sealed the wound with the blessing of Ayem-Azura. At the end of the battle, the Hortator found that he had gathered seven more spokes. He attempted to attach them and form a staff but Vivec would not let him, saying, 'It is not the time for that.'

Nerevar said, 'Where did I find these?'

Vivec said that they had collected them from around the world, though some had come invisibly. 'I am the wheel,' he said, and took that shape. Before the emptiness at the center could live too long, Nerevar put in the spokes.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Eighteen
Now Vivec felt that he had taught the Hortator as much as he could before the war with the Dwemer came. The warrior-poet decided he had to begin his Book of Hours at that point, because the world was about to bend with its age.

Vivec entered the Mourning Hold and announced to Ayem that he was going to fight nine monsters that had escaped the Muatra.

'I will return,' he said, 'to deal the last blow to the grand architect of the Dwemer.'
Ayem said, 'Out of nine you will find only eight, though they be mighty. The last is already destroyed by your decision to create the Book of Hours.'

Vivec understood that Ayem meant himself.

'Why,' she asked, 'are you in doubt?'
Vivec knew that his doubt made him the sword of the Triune and so he did not feel shame or fear. Instead, he explained and these are the words:

'Can a member of the Invisible Gate become so archaic that its successor is not so much an improvement of the exact model, but rather a related model that is just needed more because of the currency of the world's condition? As the Mother, you do not have to worry, unless things in the future are so strange that even Seht cannot understand. Neither does the Executioner or the Fool, but I am neither.
'These ideals are not going to change in nature, even though they may change in representation. But, even in the west, the Rainmaker vanishes. No one needs him anymore.
'Can one oust the model not because the model is set according to an ideal but because it is tied to an ever-changing unconscious mortal agenda?'
This is what was said to Ayem when Vivec was whole. The wise shall not mistake this.

Ayem said, 'This is why you were born of a netchiman's wife and destined to merge with the simulacrum of your mother, gilled and blended in all the arts of the star-wounded East, under water and in fire and in metal and in ash, six times the wise, to became the union of male and female, the magic hermaphrodite, the martial axiom, the sex-death of language and unique in all the middle world.'

Vivec knew then why he would record his Book of Hours.

This sermon is forbidden.

In this world and others EIGHTEEN less one (the victor) is the magical disk, hurled to reach heaven by violence.

This sermon is untrue.

The ending of the world is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Nineteen
Vivec put on his armor and stepped into a non-spatial space filling to capacity with mortal interaction and information, a canvas-less cartography of every single mind it has ever known, an event that had developed some semblance of a divine spark. He said, 'From here I shall launch my attack on the eight monsters.'

Vivec then saw the moths that would come from the starry heart, bringing with them dust more horrible than the ash of Red Mountain. He saw the twin head of a ruling king who had no equivalent. And eight imperfections rubbed into precious stones, set into a crown that looked like shackles, which he understood to be the twin crowns of the two-headed king. And a river that fed into the mouth of the two-headed king, because he contained multitudes.

Vivec then built the Provisional House at the Center of the Secret Door. From here he could watch the age to come. Of the House is written:

Cornerstone one has a finger
Buried under, pointing through
Dirt, slow low in the ground
North cannot be guessed,
And yet it is spirit-free

Cornerstone two has a tongue,
And even dust can be talkative,
Listen and you will see the love
The ancient libraries need

Cornerstone three has a bit of string,
Shaped like your favorite color,
A girl remembers who left it there
But she is afraid to dig it out,
And see what it is attached to

Cornerstone four has nine bones,
Removed carefully from a black cat,
Arranged in the fashion of this word,
Protecting us from our enemies

Your house is safe now
So why is it--
Your house is safe now
So why is it--

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty
The first monster was actually two, having been born twice like his mother-father, Vivec. He was not the mightiest of the eight to escape Muatra, but his actions were the most worrisome. He was known as Moon Axle, and he harvested the leftovers foibles of nature. This he did twice, as was said, and the second harvest always brought ruin or unwritten law. His aspect was faceted like a polyhedron.

No perils are mentioned in the finding of Moon Axle, but it was known that he was immune to spears, so Vivec had to use the sword not held against him. Before he took issue with the monster, the warrior-poet asked:

'How came you to be immune to spears?'
To which Moon Axle replied, 'Mine is a dual nature, and protean. I am in fact made of many straight lines, though none last too long. In this way I have learned to ignore all true segments.'

Luckily, the sword not held was curved and therefore could cut into Moon Axle, and before the sun was up he was bleeding from many wounds. Vivec did not slay him outright for to do so would to [sic] keep the foibles of nature within him and not back where they belonged. Soon Vivec had traced geography right again, and Moon Axle was ready to be slain.

Vivec rose up in his giant-form, to be terrible to look upon. He reached into the west and pulled out a canyon, holding it like a horn. He reached east and ate a handful of nix hounds. Blowing their spirits through the canyon made a terrible wail, not unlike an unsolved woman. He said:

'Let this overtake you,' and Moon Axle was overtaken by the curvatures of stolen souls. They wrapped about the monster like resin, until finally he could not move, nor could his dual nature.
Vivec said, 'Now you are solved,' and pierced his child with Muatra. Moon Axle had been reduced to something static, and therefore shattered.

The lines of Moon Axle were collected by Velothi philosophers and taken into caves. There, and for a year, Vivec taught the philosophers how to turn the lines of his son into the spokes of mystery wheels. This was the birth of the first Whirling School. Before, there had only been the surface thought of fire.

Vivec looked at his first wheeling students and observed:

'Alike the egg-layered universe is this morbid possession of three-distant coverage, soul-wrecked and alive, like my name is alive. In this cloister you have discovered one walking path, hilled like a sword but more coarsened. So edged it is that it has to be whispered to keep the tongue from bleeding, where its signs evacuate their former meanings, like empires that tarry too long.
'The sword is estrangement from statesmanship.
'Look on the estimable lines of my son, now crafted star-wise, his every limb equidistant from the center. Is he solved because I will it so? There cannot be a second stage. Think on the theory that my existence promulgates the five elements and alike the egg-layered universe I am cause for great density. Here is a thought that can break the wagon's axle; here is another that can soar.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-One
The Scripture of the Wheel, First:

'The Spokes are the eight components of chaos, as yet solidified by the law of time: static change, if you will, something the lizard gods refer to as the Striking. That is the reptile wheel, coiled potential, ever-preamble to the never-action.'
Second:

'They are the lent bones of the Aedra, the Eight gift-limbs to SITHISIT, the wet earth of the new star our home. Outside them is the Aurbis, and not within. Like most things inexplicable, it is a circle. Circles are confused serpents, striking and striking and never given leave to bite. The Aedra would have you believe different, but they were givers before liars. Lies have turned them into biters. Their teeth are the proselytizers; to convert is to place oneself in the mouth of falsehood; even to propitiate is to be swallowed.'
Third:

'The enlightened are those uneaten by the world.'
Fourth:

'The spaces between the gift-limbs number sixteen, the signal shapes of the Demon Princedoms. It is the key and the lock, series and manticore.'
Fifth:

'Look at the majesty sideways and all you see is the Tower, which our ancestors made idols from. Look at its center and all you see is the begotten hole, second serpent, womb-ready for the Right Reaching, exact and without enchantment.'
Sixth:

'The heart of the second serpent holds the secret triangular gate.'
Seventh:

'Look at the secret triangular gate sideways and you see the secret Tower.'
Eighth:

'The secret Tower within the Tower is the shape of the only name of God, I.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Two
Then Vivec left the first Whirling School and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the second monster, which was called the Treasure Wood Sword. Within years of the Pomegranate Banquet, it had become a lessoning tune to the lower Velothi houses. They preached of its power:

'The Treasure Wood Sword, splinter scintilla of the high and glorious! He who wields it becomes self-known!'
The warrior-poet appeared as a visitation in the ancestor alcove of House Mora, whose rose-worn prince of garlands was a hero against the northern demons. Vivec congregated with the bones. He said:

'A scavenger cannot acquire a silk sash and expect to discover the greater systems of its predecessor: perfect happiness is embraced only by the weeping. Give me back (and do so freely) what is barren of my marriage and I will not erase you from the thought realm of God. Your line has a notable enchantress that my sister Ayem is fond of and from her murky wisdom alone do I condescend to ask.'
A bone-walker emerged from a wall. It had three precious stones set in its lower jaw, a magical practice of old. One was opal, the color of opal. The bone-walker bowed to the prince of the middle air and said:

'The Treasure Wood Sword will not leave our house. Bargains were made with the Black Hands Mephala, the greater shade.'
Vivec kissed the first precious stone and said:

'Animal picture, rude-walker, go back to the lamp that stays lit in water and store no more messages of useless noise. Down.'
He kissed the second precious stone and said:

'Proud residue, soon dispersed, serve no guarantees made in my fore-image and demand nothing of its under-skin. I am master evermore. Down.'
He kissed the opal and said:

'Down I take thee.'
And then Vivec withdrew into the hidden places and found the darkest mothers of the Morag Tong, taking them all to wife and filling them with undusted loyalty that tasted of summer salt. They became as black queens, screaming live with a hundred murderous sons, a thousand murderous arms, and a hundred thousand murderous hands, one vast moving event of thrusting-kill-laughter in alleys, palaces, workshops, cities and secret halls. Their movements among the holdings of the Ra'athim were as rippled endings, heaving between times, with all fates leading to swallowed knives, murder as moaning, God's holy rape-erasure of wet death.

The King of Assassins presented to Vivec the Treasure Wood Sword.

'Milord,' the King of Assassins said. 'The prince of House Mora is now fond of you, as well. I placed him in the Corner of Dagon. His eyes I set into a fire prayer for the wicked. His mouth I stuffed with birds.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Three
The Scripture of the Sword, First:

'The sword, treated as a delicate meal, is the Symbolic Collage. It serves you well in the first half of life. Name one dynasty that knows this not.'
Second:

'The unity of my approach is understood by the immobile warrior. True eyes are acquired. Rejoice as my own subjects and realms. I build for you a city of swords, by which I mean laws that cut the people who live there into better shapes.'
Third:

'Girls burn their dresses on my arrival if I am armored. They crawl to me as bled pilgrims. Minor spirits die without trace. Follow me of all the ALMSIVI if you are to mark your days with killing. AE ALTADOON, the third law of weaponry.'
Fourth:

'The immobile warrior is never fatigued. He cuts sleep holes in the middle of a battle to regain his strength.'
Fifth:

'Instinct is not reflex action, but mini-miracles held in reserve. I am the welfare that decides which warrior will emerge. Beg not for luck. Serve me to win.'
Sixth:

'The span of the apparently inactivated is your love of the absolute. The birth of God from the netchiman's wife is the abortion of kindness from love.'
Seventh:

'The true sword is able to cut chains of generations, which is to say, the creation myths of your enemies. Look on me as the exiled garden. All else is uncut weed.'
Eighth:

'I give you an ancient road tempered by the second walking way. Your hands must be huge to wield any sword the size of an ancient road, and yet he who is of right stature may irritate the sun with only a stick.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Four
Then Vivec left the house of assassins and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the third monster, called Horde Mountain. It was made of modular warriors running free but spaced according to pattern, and from the highest warrior who could cut clouds they spread out beneath him like a tree, a skirt whose bottom circle was an army that ran through the ash.

Vivec admired the cone-shape of his child and remembered with joy the whirlwind of fighting styles that instructed him during the days before life.

Vivec moved into Veloth, saying, 'Onus.'

But before he could even get within sword-span of the monster, a trio of lower houses had trapped Horde Mountain in a net of doubtful doctrine. When they saw their lord, the Velothi cheered.

'We are happy to serve you and win!' they said.
Vivec smiled at those brave souls around him and summoned celebration demons to cleave unto the victors. There was a great display of love and duty around the netted monster, and Vivec was at the center with a headdress made of mating bones. He laughed and told mystical jokes and made the heads of the three houses marry and become a new order.

'You shall forever be now my Buoyant Armigers,' he said.
Then Vivec pierced Horde Mountain with Muatra and made of it all a big bag of bones. At the touch of his right hand the net became right scripture and he threw it all northeasterly. The contents spread out like sugar-glows and Vivec and the Buoyant Armigers ran under it laughing.

Finally the bones of Horde Mountain landed and became the foundation stones for the City of Swords, which Vivec named after his own sigil, and the net fell across it all and between, or became as bridges between bones, and since its segments had been touched by his holy wisdom they became the most perfect of all city streets in the known worlds.

Throngs of Velothi came to the new city and Ayem and Seht gave it their blessing. The streets were filled with laughter and love and the strength of tree-shaped enemy children.

Ayem said:

'To my sister-brother's city I give the holy protection of House Indoril, whose powers and thrones know no equal under heaven, wherefrom came the Hortator.'
Seht said:

'To my sister-brother's city I give safe passage through the dark corners still left of Molag Bal, and I give it this spell as well: SO-T-HA SIL, which is my name to the mighty. It will protect the lost unless their flight is on purpose and fill all the roads and alleys with the mystery paths of civilization, and give the city a mind and make of it a conduit to the full concentrate of the ALMSIVI.'
Thus was founded the city of Vivec in the days of Resdaynia.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Five
The Scripture of the City:

'All cities are born of solid light. Such is my city, his city.
'But then the light subsides, revealing the bright and terrible angel of Veloth. He is in his pre-chimerical form, demonic VEHK, gaunt and pale and beautiful, skin stretched painfully thin on bird's bones, feathered serpents encircling his arms. His wings are spread out behind him, their red and yellow ends like razors in the sun. The wispy mass of his fire hair floats as if underwater, milky in the nimbus of light that crowns his head. His presence is undeniable, the awe too much to bear.
'This is God's city, different from others. Cities from foreign countries put their denizens to sleep and walk to the star-wounded East to pay homage to me. The capital of the northern men, crusty with eon's ice, bows before Vivec the city, me it together.
'Self-thought streets rush through tunnel blood. I have rebuilt myself. Hyper eyed signposts along my traffic arm, soon to be an inner sea. My body is crawling with all gathered to see me rising up like a monolithic instrument of pleasure. My spine is the main road to the city that I am. Countless transactions are taking place in veins and catwalks and the roaming, roaming, roaming, as they roam over and through and add to me. There are temples erected along the hollow of my skull and I will ever wear them as a crown. Walk across the lips of God.
'They add new doors to me and I become effortlessly trans-immortal with the comings and goings and the stride-heat of the market where I am traded for, yell of the children hear them play, scoffed at, amused, desired, paid for in native coin, new minted with my face on one side and my city-body on the other. I stare with each new window. Soon I am a million-eyed insect dreaming.
'Red-sparking war trumpets sound like cattle in the ribcage of shuffling transit. The heretics are destroyed on the plaza knees. I flood over into the hills, houses rising like a rash, and I never scratch. Cities are the antidotes to hunting.
'I raise lanterns to light my hollows, lend wax to the thousands the candlesticks that bear my name again and again, the name innumerable, shutting in, mantra and priest, god-city, filling every corner with the naming name, wheeled, circling, running river language giggling with footfalls mating, selling, stealing, searching, and worry not ye who walk with me. This is the flowering scheme of the Aurbis. This is the promise of the PSJJJ: egg, image, man, god, city, state. I serve and am served. I am made of wire and string and mortar and I accede my own precedent, world without am.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Six
Then Vivec left his architectural rapture and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the fourth monster, called The Pocket Cabal.

The monster hid itself in the spell-lists of the great Chimeri wizards of the extreme east, where the Emperor Parasols grow wild. Vivec disguised himself as a simple traveler, but radiated a tenuous sense-fabric so that the wizards would seek him out. Of Muatra he made a simple walking dwarf.

Before long the invisible one was among the libraries of the east, feeding the essential words of The Pocket Cabal to his walking dwarf and then running when the magic would fail. After a year or two of this thievery, Muatra was sick to its stomach, and the walking dwarf exploded near the slave pens of a wizard's tower. The Pocket Cabal then slipped itself into the mouths of the slaves and hid again.

Vivec then watched as the slaves erupted into babble and breaking magic. They rattled their cages and sung out half-hymns that formed into forbidden and arcane knowledge. Litany fiends appeared and drank from the excess. Grabbers from the Adjacent Place came into the world sideways, the slave talking having disrupted the normal non-cardinal points.

So of course a giant bug appeared, with the greatest eastern wizard inside it. He could see past Vivec's disguise and knew of the warrior-poet's divinity but he thought himself so powerful that he talked harshly:

'See what you have wrought, silly Triune! Columns of nonsense and litany fiends! I cannot believe how reason or temperance can be made whole again due to your eating, eating, eating! Consort with more demons, why don't you?'
Vivec stabbed the wizard through his soul.

The giant bug harness fell on the slave cages and the slaves ran about free and reckless, too reckless more with pregnant words. Colors bent into the earth. Vivec created a dome-head demon to contain it all.

'The Pocket Cabal is therefore interred here forever. Let this be a cursed land where sorcery is broken and maligned.'
Then he picked up Muatra by the beard and left the ghostly hemisphere of the dome-head demon. On its boundaries, Vivec placed a warning and a song of entrance that contained errors in it. With mock bones of half-dead Muatra he created the tent poles of a fortress-theory and fatal languages were imprisoned for all time.

Seht appeared and looked on what his brother-sister had created. The Clockwork King said:

'Of the eight monsters, this is the most confusing. May I treasure it?'
Vivec gave Seht leave to do so, but told him never to release The Pocket Cabal into the middle world. He said:

'I have hidden secrets in my travels here and made a likeness of Muatra to ward against the unwise. Under this dome, the temporal myth is no longer man.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Seven
The Scripture of the Word, First:

'All language is based on meat. Do not let the sophists fool you.'
Second:

'The third walking path explores hysteria without fear. The efforts of madmen are a society of itself, but only if they are written. The wise may substitute one law for another, even into incoherence, and still say he is working within a method. This is true of speech and extends to all scripture.'
Third:

'Do not go to the realm of apology for absolution. Beyond articulation, there is no fault. The Adjacent Place, where the Grabbers live, is the illusion of the vocal or the middle realms of thought, by which I mean the constructed. This is how I stole the certainty of the Chancellor of Exactitude, perfect to look upon from every angle. When you come out of the vocal, you can never be certain.'
Fourth:

'The truest body of work is made up of silence: as in the silence that results from no reference. By the word I mean the dead.'
Fifth:

'The first meaning is always hidden.'
Sixth:

'The realm of apology is perfection and impossible to attack. Thus, the wise avoid it. Trinity in unity is the world and word of action: the third walking path.'
Seventh:

'The sage who suppresses his best aphorism: cut off his hands, for he is a thief.'
Eighth:

'The clothes of the broken map are worn only by fools and heretics. The map is an exit for laziness. It is the dusty tongue, which is to say the given chart that most take as a story that is complete. No word is true until it is eaten.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Eight
Then Vivec left Seht to look after the dome-head demon and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the fifth monster, called The Ruddy Man.

When the dreughs ruled the world, the Daedroth Prince Molag Bal had been their chief. He took a different shape then, spiny and armored and made for the sea. Vivec, in giving birth to the many spawn of his marriage, had dropped an old image of Molag Bal into the world: a dead carapace of memory. It would not have been a monster if a Velothi child had not wanted to impress his village by wearing it.

The Ruddy Man, of the eight monsters, was the least complicated. He made those who wore him into mighty killers and nothing more. He existed in the physical. Only geography makes him special.

When Vivec found him near the boy's village, anon Gnisis, there was a violent clash of arms and an upheaval of the earth. Their battle created the West Gash. Wanderers that still go there hear still the sounds of it: sword across the crust, the grunt of God, the snapping of his monster child's splintered legs.

After his victory, Vivec took the shell of The Ruddy Man to the dreughs that had modified his mother. The Queen of Dreughs, whose name is not easy to spell, was in a period of self-incubation. Her wardens took the gift from Vivec and promised to guard it from the surface world. This is the first account of dreughs being liars.

In ten years, The Ruddy Man appeared again, this time near Tear, worn by a wayward shaman who followed the House of Troubles. Instead of guarding it, the dreughs had imbued the living armor with mythic inflexibility. It molted soon after skill-draping the shaman and stretched his bones to the five corners.

When Vivec met the monster in battle again he saw the remains of three villages dripping from its feet. He took on his giant form and slew The Ruddy Man by way of the Symbolic Collage. Since he no longer trusted the Altmer of the sea, Vivec gave the carapace of the monster to the devout and loyal mystics of the Number Room. He told them:

'You may make of The Ruddy Man a philosopher's armor.'
The mystics began by wrapping one of their sages in the shells, a series of flourishes by two supra numerates, one hormonally tall and the other just under his arms. They ran around the carapace and through each other, applying holy resin drawn from the carcasses of the now-useless numbers between twelve and thirteen. Golden straws were quickly stuck through the mythic epidermal so the sage could breathe. After the ceremonial etchings were drawn into hardening resin, long lists of dead names and equations whose solutions were to be found in the mouth of the Chimer inside, there came the illuminations, inscribed by the bright, terrible fingernail of Vivec. From the nail's tip flowed a searing liquid, filling the grooves of the ceremonial etchings. They bled out to form veined patterns about the sage-shell that theologians would decipher forever after.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Twenty-Nine
The Scripture of the Numbers:

1. The Dragon Break, or the Tower. 1

2. The Enantiomorph. 68

3. The Invisible Gate, ALMSIVI. 112

4. The Corners of House of Troubles. 242

5. The Corners of the World. 100

6. The Walking Ways. 266

7. The Sword at the Center. 39

8. The Wheel, or the Eight Givers. 484

9. The Missing. 11

10. The Tribes of the Altmer. 140

11. The Number of the Master. 102

12. The Heavens. 379

13. The Serpent. 36

14. The King's Cough. 32

15. The Redeeming Force. 110

16. The Acceptable Blasphemes. 12

17. The Hurling Disk. 283

18. The Egg, or Six Times the Wise.

19. The Provisional House. 258

20. The Lunar Lattice. 425

21. The Womb. 13

22. Unknown. 453

23. The Hollow Prophet. 54

24. The Star Wound. 44

25. The Emperor. 239

26. The Rogue Plane. 81

27. The Secret Fire. 120

28. The Drowned Lamp. 8

29. The Captive Sage. 217

30. The Scarab. 10

31. The Listening Frame. 473

32. The False Call. 7

33. The Anticipations. 234

34. The Lawless Grammar. 2

35. The Prison-Shirt. 191

36. The Hours. 364

'The presence of deaf witness, this is what the numbers are. They hang onto the Aurbis as the last nostalgia of their godhood. The effigies of numbers are their current applications; this is folly, as above. To be affixed to a symbol is too, too certain.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty
Then Vivec left the mystics of the Number Room and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the sixth monster, called City-Face. He was vexed when he could not find it and went back to the Mourning Hold in secret anger, killing a mystic that asked about higher order.

Nerevar, the Hortator, witnessed this and said, 'Why do this, milord? The mystics look to you for guidance. They work to make your temple better stoned.'

Vivec said, 'No one knows what I am.'

The Hortator nodded and went back to his studies.

Here is how City-Face hid from his mother-father: it had been born named as Ha-Note, a bare urge of power, an esoteric wind nerve tuned to the frequency of huddled masses. It found root in villages and multiplied, finding in the minds of the settled a veiled astrology, the star charts of culture, and this resonance made its head swim. Ha-Note moved sideways into the Adjacent Place, growing and unbeknownst. Above the vocal, it trembled with new emotions, immortal ones, absorbing more than the thirty known to exist in the middle world. When Ha-Note became gravely homesick, the Grabbers took it.

A Grabber said, 'New emotions to the lonely occur only of madness. This thing is gone. It is ours now.'

Grabbers had never made a city of their own, and their glimpse of Vivec's, which shone with holiness through all the spheres, had taken their attention.

'Under this reason did the issue of Vehk slide into our realm, drawn by our coveting, hidden in loss. We shall build our tower-hope upon its face.'
Now many years had passed in Resdaynia, and the high priests of the Dwemer were building something alike as Vivec and alike as the new Ha-Note of the Grabbers. The Hortator was engaged with an army of theirs that had become too brave, talking foolish words, and Nerevar helped destroy them with the help of the orphan legion of Ayem. When he went to give trophy to Vivec, he saw his lord under attack by the City-Face. The monster was saying this:

'Here we are to replace your city, Vehk and Vehk. We are from the place of the more-than-known emotions, and our citizenry has died from it. Two things we came for, but can stay for only one. Either we ask you to correct our error of culture, or merely take yours by dint of force. The second is easiest, we think.'
Vivec sighed.

'You would replace my direction,' he said. 'I weary of this, though I wanted to kill you an age before. Resdaynia is fallen ill, and I have no time for one more imaginary analogy of an unknown incident. Here, take this.'
At which he touched the tower-hope of the City-Face and corrected the error of the Grabbers.

'And this.'
At which he stabbed the heart of the City-Face with the Ethos Knife, which is to say RKHT AI AE ALTADOON AI, the short blade of proper commerce.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-One
Many more years passed in Resdaynia, and the high priests of the Dwemer were almost ready to make war on the rulers of Veloth. The Hortator had become the husband of Ayem during this time, and the first saint of the Triune way. Vivec had tired of fighting his sons and daughters, and so took a respite from trying to find them.

The Hortator said to his wife, 'Where is Vivec, my teacher? I love him still, though he grows cold. His lamentations, if I may call them that, have changed the skin of the whole country. He is hardly to be found anywhere in Veloth of late. The people grow dark because of it.'

And Ayem took mercy on her troubled husband and told him that the sword of the Triune had been fighting minor monsters stirred up by the Dwemer as they worked on their brass siege machines. She took the Hortator inside her and showed him where his master was.

ALMSIVI, or at least that aspect that chose to be Vivec, sat in the Litany Hall of the False Thinking Temple after his battle with the Flute-and-Pipe Ogres of the West Gash. He began writing, again, in his Book of Hours. He had to put on his Water Face first. That way he could separate the bronze of the Old Temple from the blue of the New and write with happiness. Second, he had to take another feather from the Big Moon, further rendering it dead. That way he could write about mortals with truth. Third, he recalled the Pomegranate Banquet, where he was forced to marry to Molag Bal with wet scriptures to cement his likeness as Mephala and write with black hands. He wrote:

The last time I heard his voice, showing the slightest sign of impatience, I learned to control myself and submit to the will of others. Afterwards, I dared to take on the sacred fire and realized there was no equilibrium with the ET'ADA. They were liars, lost roots, and the most I can do is to be an interpreter into the rational. Even that fails the needs of the people. I sit on the mercy seat and pass judgment, the waking state, and the phase aspect of the innate urge. Only here can I doubt, in this book, written in water, broadened to include evil.

Then Vivec threw his ink on this passage to cover it up (for the lay reader) and wrote instead:

Find me in the blackened paper, unarmored, in final scenery. Truth is like my husband: instructed to smash, filled with procedure and noise, hammering, weighty, heaviness made schematic, lessons learned only by a mace. Let those that hear me then be buffeted, and let some die in the ash from the striking. Let those that find him find him murdered by illumination, pummeled like a traitorous house, because, if an hour is golden, then immortal I am a secret code. I am the partaker of the Doom Drum, chosen of all those that dwell in the middle world to wear this crown, which reverberates with truth, and I am the mangling messiah.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-Two
The Scripture of the Mace, First:

'The pleasure of annihilation is the pleasure of disappearing into the unreal. All those that would challenge the sleeping world will seek membership in this movement. I denounce the alienation of the Cloven Duality with a hammer.'
Second:

'Take from me the lessons as a punishment for being mortal. To be made of dirt is to be treated as such by your jailers. This is the key and the lock of the Daedra. Why do you think they escaped the compromise?'
Third:

'Velothi, your skin has become the pregnant darkness. My brooding has brought this on. Remember that Boethiah asked you to become the color of bruise. How else to show yourselves people of the exodus into the vital: pain?'
Fourth:

'The sage who is not an anvil: a conventional sentence and nothing more. By which I mean dead, the fourth walking way.'
Fifth:

'A proper comprehension of the virtues: stage-managed and to be murdered.'
Sixth:

'In the end, rejoice as a hostage released from drumming torment but that savors his wound. The drum breaks and you find it to be a nest of hornets, which is to say: your sleep is over.'
Seventh:

'The suspicious is spectacle and the lie is only a theoretical inspiration.'
Eighth:

'But then why, you ask, do the Daedra wish to meddle with the Aurbis? It is because they are the radical critique, essential as all martyrs. That some are more evil than others in [sic] not an illusion. Or rather, it is a necessary illusion.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-Three
Then Vivec left the Litany Hall of the False Thinking Temple, where he had brooded for so long creating the scripture of the pounding light, and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the seventh monster, called Lie Rock.

Lie Rock was born of Vivec's Second Aperture and was thrown out of the Pomegranate Banquet by a member of the Sweeps, another forgotten guild. The Sweep did not take it for the monster that it was and so he did not expect it to fly from his hand and into the heavens.

'I am born of golden wisdom and powers that should have forever been unalike! With this nature I am invited into the Hidden Heaven!'
By which he meant the Scaled Blanket, made of not-stars, whose number is thirteen. Lie Rock became full of foolishness, haggling with the Void Ghost who hides in the religions of all men. The Void Ghost said:

'Stay with me a full hundred years and I will give you a power that no divinity will dare disobey.'
But before the hundred years was up, Vivec was already looking for Lie Rock and found him.

'Stupid stone,' Vivec said. 'To hide in the Scaled Blanket is to make a mark on nothing. His bargains are only for ruling kings!'
So Vivec sent the Hortator to the heavens to shave Lie Rock asunder by the named axe. Nerevar made peace with the south-pole-star of thieving and the north-pole-star of warriors and the third-pole-star, which existed only in the ether, which was governed by the apprentice of Magnus the sun. They gave him leave to wander among their charges and gave him red sight by which to find Lie Rock in the Hidden Heaven.

By chance, Nerevar met the Void Ghost first, who told him that he was in the wrong place to which the Hortator said, 'Me or you?' and the Void Ghost said both. This sermon does not tell what else was said between these masters.

Lie Rock, however, used the confusion to launch his own attack on the city-god, Vivec. He was hastened by all three of the black guardians, who wanted him swiftly gone, though they meant no hostility to the lord of the middle air.

The citizenry of Vivec screamed as they saw a shooting star come down out of the sky hole like a toll-road of hell. But Vivec merely raised his hand and froze Lie Rock just above the city and then he pierced the monster with Muatra.

(The practice of piercing the Second Aperture is now forbidden.)

When Nerevar returned, he saw the frozen comet above his lord's city. He asked whether or not Vivec wanted it removed.

'I would have done so myself if I wanted, silly Hortator. I shall keep it there with its last intention intact, so that if the love of the people of this city for me ever disappear, so shall the power that holds back their destruction.'
Nerevar said, 'Love is under your will only.'

Vivec smiled and told the Hortator that he had become a Minister of Truth.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-Four
Then Vivec left the Ministry of Truth and went back to the space that was not a space. From the Provisional House he looked into the middle world to find the eighth and final and mightiest monster, called GULGA MOR JIL and more. The wise must look elsewhere for this string of power.

Vivec called to his side the Hortator and this was the first time that Nerevar had ever been to the Provisional House. He had the same vision that Vivec had so many years ago: that of the two-headed ruling king.

'Who is that?' he wondered.
Vivec said, 'The red jewel of conquest.'

Nerevar, perhaps because he was frightened, became vexed at his lord's answer. 'Why are you always so evasive?'

Vivec told the Hortator that to be otherwise was to betray his nature.

Together they moved into the middle world, to a village near where Vivec had been found by Ayem and Seht. The eighth monster was there, but he did not act much like a monster. He sat with his legs in the ocean and with a troubled look on his face. When he saw his mother-father, he asked why he should have to die and return to oblivion.

Vivec told the eighth monster that to be otherwise was to betray his nature. Since this did not seem to satisfy the monster and Vivec still had a touch of Ayem's mercy he said:



'The fire is mine: let it consume thee,
And make a secret door
At the altar of Padhome,
In the House of Boet-hi-Ah
Where we become safe
And looked after.'


The monster accepted Muatra with a peaceful look and his bones became the foundation for the City of the Dead, anon Narsis [sic].

Nerevar put away his axe, which he had at the ready, and frowned.

'Why,' he said, 'did you ask me to come if you knew the eighth monster would give in so easily?'
Vivec looked at the Hortator for a long time.

Nerevar understood. 'Do not betray your nature. Answer as you will.'

Vivec said, 'I brought you here because I knew the mightiest of my issue would succumb to Muatra without argument, if only I gave him consolation first.'

Nerevar looked at Vivec for a long time.

Vivec understood. 'Say the words, Hortator.'

Nerevar said, 'Now I am the mightiest of your children.'

Let this sermon be consolation to those who read it that are destined to die.

The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-Five
The Scripture of Love:

'The formulas of proper Velothi magic continue in ancient tradition, but that virility is dead, by which I mean at least replaced. Truth owes its medicinal nature to the establishment of the myth of justice. Its curative properties it likewise owes to the concept of sacrifice. Princes, chiefs, and angels all subscribe to the same notion. This is a view primarily based on a prolific abolition of an implied profanity, seen in ceremonies, knife fighting, hunting, and the exploration of the poetic. On the ritual of occasions, which comes to us from the days of the cave glow, I can say nothing more than to loosen your equation of moods to lunar currency. Later, and by that I mean much, much later, my reign will be seen as an act of the highest love, which is a return from the astral destiny and the marriages between. By that I mean the catastrophes, which will come from all five corners. Subsequent are the revisions, differentiated between hope and the distraught, situations that are only required by the periodic death of the immutable. Cosmic time is repeated: I wrote of this in an earlier life. An imitation of submersion is love's premonition, its folly into the underworld, by which I mean the day you will read about outside of yourself in an age of gold. For on that day, which is a shadow of the sacrificial concept, all history is obliged to see me for what you are: in love with evil. To keep one's powers intact at such a stage is to allow for the existence of what can only be called a continual spirit. Make of your love a defense against the horizon. Pure existence is only granted to the holy, which comes in a myriad of forms, half of them frightening and the other half divided into equal parts purposeless and assured. Late is the lover that comes to this by any other walking way than the fifth, which is the number of the limit of this world. The lover is the highest country and a series of beliefs. He is the sacred city bereft of a double. The uncultivated land of monsters is the rule. This is clearly attested by ANU and his double, which love knows never really happened. Similarly, all the other symbols of absolute reality are ancient ideas ready for their graves, or at least the essence of such. This scripture is directly ordered by the codes of Mephala, the origin of sex and murder, defeated only by those who take up those ideas without my intervention. The religious elite is not a tendency or a correlation. They are dogma complemented by the influence of the untrustworthy sea and the governance of the stars, dominated at the center by the sword, which is nothing without a victim to cleave unto. This is the love of God and he would show you more: predatory but at the same time instrumental to the will of critical harvest, a scenario by which one becomes as he is, of male and female, the magic hermaphrodite. Mark the norms of violence and it barely registers, suspended as it is by treaties written between the original spirits. This should be seen as an opportunity, and in no way tedious, though some will give up for it is easier to kiss the lover than become one. The lower regions crawl with these souls, caves of shallow treasures, meeting in places to testify by way of extension, when love is only satisfied by a considerable (incalculable) effort.'
The ending of the words is ALMSIVI.

Sermon Thirty-Six
For these were the days of Resdaynia, when Chimer and Dwemer lived under the wise and benevolent rule of the ALMSIVI and their champion the Hortator, though the Dwemer had become foolish and challenged their masters.

Out of their fortresses they came with golden ballistae that walked and mighty atronachs and things that spat flame and things that made killing songs. Their king was Dumac Dwarf-Orc, but their high priest was Kagrenac the Blighter.

Under mountains and over them the war with the Dwemer was raged, and then came the northern men to help Kagrenac and they brought Ysmir again.

Leading the armies of the Chimer was the slave that would not perish, the Hortator Nerevar, who had traded his axe for the Ethos Knife. He slew Dumac at Red Mountain and saw the heart bone for the first time.

Men of brass destroyed the eleven gates of the Mourning Hold and behind them came the Dwemeri architects of tone. Ayem threw down her cloak and became the Face-Snaked Queen of the Three in One. Those that looked upon her were overcome by the meanings of the stars.

Under the sea, Seht stirred and brought the army he had been working on in the castles of glass and coral. Clockwork dreughs, mockeries of the Dwemeri war machines, rose up from the seas and took their counterparts back beneath, where they were swallowed forever by the sea.

Red Mountain exploded as the Hortator went too far inside, seeking the Sharmat.

Dwemeri high priest Kagrenac then revealed that which he had built in the image of Vivec. It was a walking star, which burnt the armies of the Triune and destroyed the heartland of Veloth, creating the Inner Sea.

Each of the aspects of the ALMSIVI then rose up together, combining as one, and showed the world the sixth path. Ayem took from the star its fire, Seht took from it its mystery, and Vehk took from it its feet, which had been constructed before the gift of Molag Bal and destroyed in the manner of truth: by a great hammering. When the soul of the Dwemer could walk no more, they were removed from this world.

Resdaynia was no more. It had been redeemed of all the iniquities of the foolish. The ALMSIVI drew nets from the Beginning Place and captured the ash of Red Mountain, which they knew was the Blight of the Dwemer and that would serve only to infect the whole of the middle world, and ate it. ALTADOON DUNMERI!

The beginning of the words is ALMSIVI. I give you this as Vivec.