The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, the fifth game in the Elder Scrolls series, takes place in the province of Skyrim 200 years after the Oblivion Crisis. Dragon Shouts play an integral role in the story as you discover your fate as the Last Dragonborn. Skyrim is available on PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, and Nintendo Switch.

Skyrim Legendary Edition is a bundled release of the game with the three major add-ons for PC, Xbox 360, and PlayStation 3. Skyrim Special Edition is a remastered version of the game for PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4. It includes the three major add-ons, uses an upgraded engine with many visual improvements, and has several important technical differences from the classic version of the game. A virtual reality version, Skyrim VR, is available on PlayStation VR and as a standalone game on PC. The Switch and VR releases are based on the Special Edition. The Anniversary Edition is a Special Edition bundle that includes all DLC and Creation Club content.

The ancient home of the Nords, Skyrim, teeters at the brink of destruction. With the death of High King Torygg, a civil war breaks out, with brothers slaying brothers across the province's frozen tundras and rocky crags. Many, especially the rebel Stormcloaks led by Ulfric Stormcloak, wish to secede from the Empire, which has been in decline since the Oblivion Crisis. Many loyalists, on the other hand, prefer the unity and security provided by the Empire.

The Elder Scrolls foretell the return of Tamriel's primeval darkness, the Dragons, and the coming of a mortal born with the soul of a dragon, the Dovahkiin or "Dragonborn"—one who will have the power to permanently defeat his greatest foe and end the dark reign of the consumer of worlds: Alduin.

Your journey will be beset with peril. Just as remnants of the kingdom's shadow guardians, the Blades, will offer their aid, crafty agents of the Thalmor, seeking to advance their own cause, will impede your quest. Acquire knowledge and prove yourself Dragonborn, and the revered Greybeards will grant you an audience to learn of their ancient Draconic arts.

Now great adventurer, free yourself from bondage; take up blade or spell, bow or axe; fulfill your destiny or postpone it indefinitely.