Counter-Strike (also marketed as Half-Life: Counter-Strike ) is a multiplayer first-person shooter initially created by Minh Le and Jess Cliffe as a mod for Half-Life . By the fifth beta, Valve Software started actively participating in the development and ultimately bought the rights to the game and offered the original developers jobs at the company which both of them accepted.
After about a year in Beta stages , the first full release of the mod was published on November 9, 2000 and the game was also available at retailers in North America shortly thereafter, on November 14, 2000.
Since the creation of the franchise, various sequels and spinoffs have been created, such as Counter-Strike: Condition Zero , Counter-Strike: Source , Counter-Strike: Global Offensive , and the latest in the series , Counter-Strike 2 .
The fast-paced and team-oriented gameplay of Counter-Strike has stayed relatively the same throughout the years. In it, two teams, the Counter-Terrorists and the Terrorists , fight to complete an objective or eliminate the opposing team. Although basic, it is considered one of the most revolutionary online games of all time. The original Counter-Strike came exclusively with multiplayer, without computer-controlled players. Over time, however, several server-side modifications have added bots for in-game use and bots were officially introduced in its later successors, Counter-Strike (Xbox) and Counter-Strike: Condition Zero .
Counter-Strike has been praised worldwide for its highly competitive multiplayer. The decision to make the game multiplayer only roots back to its mod origins. Doing a single-player game would have entailed much more work as new models and AI code would have been needed for enemies as opposed to a multiplayer game which requires considerably less work. [1]
There are three official scenarios, each with their own teams, objectives, and maps. In all cases, the two teams are the Counter-Terrorists face off against the Terrorists .
In the original retail release, a short single-player only training map was included but this was removed when the game was transferred to Steam.
There are three official scenarios in Counter-Strike : Assassination , hostage rescue and bomb defusal . A fourth scenario, known as escape , existed during the Counter-Strike Beta . The scenario itself is still playable, but all of the official maps were removed prior to the game's release.
Two hostages in Office
In this scenario hostages are being held by the Terrorists . Official maps feature between 3 and 5 hostages, though most maps feature 4 hostages. The Counter-Terrorist team needs to rescue these hostages by escorting them to a hostage rescue zone . The Terrorists must prevent the hostages from being rescued. Victory can also be attained by eliminating the opposing team.
This scenario features two bombsites and one Terrorist starts off with a C4 . The bomb must be planted at either bombsite. After the bomb has been planted, it will explode after a certain amount of time. During this time, Counter-Terrorists may attempt to defuse the bomb and successful defusal will make the Counter-Terrorists victorious. If the bomb explodes, the Terrorists will win the round. It is also possible to win a round by eliminating the opposing team.
VIP in Oilrig
This scenario is the least popular of the three and only a single map, Oilrig , is featured in the latest release of the game. In this scenario a single player on the Counter-Terrorist team takes the role of a VIP that must make it to a VIP escape zone . Some maps feature only one escape zone while others feature multiple escape zones. The Terrorists have to take out the VIP and successfully eliminating the VIP will yield victory to the Terrorists. Both teams have a restricted arsenal of weapons available for purchase. Like in other scenarios, victory can also be attained by eliminating the opposing team.
Counter-Strike features a large variety of maps that take place in different environments including urban, arctic, jungle and desert settings. During the post-beta stages, maps were still rotated in the official distribution on a slightly smaller scale. Since the release of Counter-Strike 1.6, no maps have been added or removed from the game.
It should be noted that the majority of maps for the game were created by people that were originally simply hobbyist mappers. When Valve Software later bought the rights to Counter-Strike and its content these became the first works published at retail for many of the level designers. [2]
There are 25 official maps in the latest version of Counter-Strike .
*This map was exclusive to the mod edition of the game.
Counter-Strike features a variety of weapons, ranging from knives to shotguns and submachine guns . There was also grenade launchers,such as the HK69, but were removed in later development.The weapons for Counter-Strike were chosen mainly based on two criteria. For one, the weapons had to be satisfying to use and they had to look and sound cool. The other criteria was realism and what weapons the factions would likely be using in real-life. The former of these criteria was given more weight than ensuring authenticity. [3]
Inspiration for potential weapon candidates were taken from various movies. [4] For example, the movie Ronin inspired the inclusion of the Krieg 552 and M249 . [5] Further inspiration was also taken from the movies Air Force One and the Professional . [4]
Most of the information regarding the weapons themselves was sourced from the internet or from gun magazines. [6] Because limited information was available regarding some of the weapons, Minh Le had to guess how some weapons could have functioned when animating them and thus a few weapon models exhibit differences when compared to their real-world counterparts. [7]
Counter-Strike notably features left-handed weapon view models. These models were made as left-handed because the creator of these models and the main man behind Counter-Strike , Minh Le , is left-handed and thus preferred animating the weapons from that side. [8] The game features a possibility of changing the models to right-handed, but as the models are simply mirrored from their left-handed counterparts they sport some inaccuracies when compared to their real-world counterparts. Some of the firearms are also not used by real world names and used other names, e.g. CV-47, which is the AK-47 in real life, to avoid legal trouble.
Counter-Strike features a total of 25 weapons , some of which are exclusive to the Counter-Terrorists and others which are exclusive to the Terrorists . The list also indicates the original name of a weapon from the mod release if applicable.
Along with the weapons, there are nine pieces of acquirable equipment , three of which are grenades . If ammunition , the radio and the flashlight are to be included, the number of equipment is increased to twelve.
Counter-Strike features a number of different factions that are aligned either with the Counter-Terrorists or the Terrorists . The only difference between factions of the same side is the player model that will be visible to other players.
Player models for the Counter-Strike Beta had been created by Minh Le , however for the full release Valve Software stepped in to provide new player models because the old models were inefficient in terms of polygon count and texture sizes. [9] These models were created by Chuck Jones and Stephen Theodore. [10] [11] In Counter-Strike 1.1 these models were enhanced with higher resolution textures and the C4 and the defusal kit were re-added to the player models.
With the release of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero 1.1 on April 28, 2004 it became possible for owners of Condition Zero to use the enhanced player models in this game. Previously, there used to be no direct way of disabling these upgraded models. [12] In the update issued on February 2, 2013 it was finally made possible to toggle these models at will via an Enable HD models if available checkbox. [13] Ticking this checkbox will also replace all models used from the original Half-Life , including the scientist model sometimes used for hostages, with their HD counterparts.
Each team has four available factions that players can choose as their third-person model.
The game started out as a Half-Life modification on the GoldSrc engine. It went through numerous iterations and it grew in popularity to become one of the most popular first-person shooters of all time. During the fifth beta Valve Software decided to get involved and eventually purchased the rights to the game.
On August 31, 2000 it was announced that Counter-Strike would be released as a retail product in addition to also being available as a mod for Half-Life . [14] The decision to turn the game into a retail product was made as it was felt that a retail release would make the game more accessible. [15] Valve Software also wanted to see how the market would react to a multiplayer product that didn't require Half-Life . [15]
Release models (left) vs. beta models (right)
With the impending retail release, various legal issues had to be sorted out. One of these issues was the weapon names. They were changed to bogus names in order to avoid legal issues. [16] In addition to simply purchasing the rights to the game, Valve Software also had to approach each level designer and artist to secure the rights to the maps and textures. Some textures were found to have dubious origins and they had to be remade or censored, which lead to some changes in maps for the retail release. [17] [18] While Minh Le had hoped that all maps would have been made part of the retail release, [19] Valve opted to only include some of the maps in the retail release. For the maps that weren't purchased by Valve, Minh Le decided to reimburse the authors out of his own pockets despite him having no obligation to do so. [17]
Naturally, the new version of the game would also feature new content. Three new weapons were modeled for the release by Minh Le. Also, all new player models were provided by Valve Software . [9] Maverick Developments was also contracted to produce a training map for the retail version of the game. [20]
In October it was stated that the mod version of the game would be released as soon as the retail version had gone gold. [21] On November 9, 2000 it was announced that the retail release had gone gold, thus the mod version was released. [22] The retail version appeared on store shelves in North America on November 14, 2000. [23]
Much like during the beta stages, various patches were released for the game after its full release. Since Valve was now involved, updates that needed substantial changes to the engine were also possible. This included the introduction of a brand new spectator mode in Counter-Strike 1.1 , voice-over communications in Counter-Strike 1.3 and anti-cheating technology in Counter-Strike 1.4 . On June 12, 2002 Counter-Strike 1.5 was released which was the final version of the game available as a separately downloadable patch before the game was transferred to Steam .
Counter-Strike had already made an appearance on Steam during early closed beta testing of both Counter-Strike 1.4 and the content delivery platform in early 2002. [24] In March 2002, this beta testing was also opened to the public. [25] However the use of Steam at this point was strictly for beta testing purposes and there were no plans to make the actual game available via Steam yet. [26] Valve had wanted to make the game available on Steam coinciding with the release of Counter-Strike 1.5, but they eventually fell behind schedule and the transfer to Steam had to wait until Counter-Strike 1.6. [27]
In October 2002 the news were dropped that Counter-Strike 1.6 would initially be made available via Steam and that a beta test would precede the actual release. [28] Public beta testing was initially to commence in mid-November, [29] but the date was first pushed back to mid-December [30] until testing finally commenced on January 16, 2003. [31] However, due to overwhelming demand further beta admissions were quickly suspended since the Steam servers ran out of bandwidth. [32] Steam and thus the Counter-Strike 1.6 beta was made publicly available again on February 11, 2003. [33]
The game would be updated numerous times during this beta test and Counter-Strike 1.6 saw the inclusion of new weapons and a completely new interface based on the VGUI2 technology by Valve Software. The official bot that was being developed by Turtle Rock Studios for Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was also beta tested by the public in Counter-Strike 1.6 between June 5, 2003 and September 9, 2003 . [34] After over half a year of public beta testing, beta testing concluded on September 9, 2003. [35] The final release of Counter-Strike 1.6 was initially supposed to be released the very next day, [35] however last minute changes to the Steam network took longer than expected and the final version of Counter-Strike 1.6 was released on September 12, 2003 together with the Steam client. [36] [37] [38]
Counter-Strike 1.6 ended up being the last major content update for the game and the version number is now commonly used as a title to differentiate the original game from the rest of the series. Since the release of Steam , various smaller patches have been released which have introduced fixes to bugs/exploits or smaller balance changes. A Counter-Strike 1.7 was planned for merging the online communities of Counter-Strike and Counter-Strike: Condition Zero , [39] but such an update was never released.
In-game advertisement in Dust2
In 2007 an update was introduced that caused quite a lot of controversy even before its introduction: in-game advertisements. [40] Despite the negative reaction by the community, [41] these advertisements would go on to decorate parts of the interface and the walls of some maps for a period of six years before they were eventually removed in 2013 when Counter-Strike was transferred over to the SteamPipe content delivery system. [42]
On January 25, 2013 a beta of the game was made available for Linux and Mac OS X and on February 14, 2013 support for these platforms was officially released.
The sound effects for the game were primarily the responsibility of Jess Cliffe . [43] Sounds for the Radio Commands and the Announcer were in fact recorded by him. [44]
Some sound effects were also done by other people. [7] For example, the sound effects for the M249 were contributed by an actual employee of Fabrique Nationale , the manufacturer of the weapon. [45]
Magazine advertisement
When Counter-Strike was originally released at retail it was given the title Half-Life: Counter-Strike . This title was given because it was felt that Counter-Strike didn't have a strong enough identity at that time to stand on its own. [46]
An advertising campaign was also launched by the publisher, Sierra Entertainment, in late 2000. This campaign saw advertisements for the game appearing in various gaming publications including Computer Gaming World and PC Gamer. [47] [48] Sierra also launched their official website for the game on November 4, 2000. [49]
Perhaps in an effort to increase the value of the original retail edition, other Half-Life mods were included in the package. These were Half-Life Deathmatch , Half-Life: Opposing Force Capture the Flag , FireArms , Redemption , Wanted! and Team Fortress Classic . All of these mods with the exception of Redemption included only the multiplayer component.
The official strategy guide for the game was published by Versus Books. [50] Other than including regular gameplay hints, it also includes 2D overviews of the retail version maps. [51] At the time of publishing this was quite useful since overviews weren't made part of the game until Counter-Strike 1.3 .
When Counter-Strike left beta stages and the first complete build was released, two different editions of the game were available: mod and retail. After the game was transferred over to Steam, both of these editions were discontinued and only the Steam version is still supported. Since the release of the Steam version, the legacy editions (mod and retail) have been retroactively referred to as the the WON version based on the name of the matchmaking service used by those editions.
This was essentially the edition that was the most direct continuation of the beta releases. The mod edition of the game could be downloaded from the official Counter-Strike web site and required Half-Life to be installed in order to be playable.
Because this distribution was a mod just like the previous beta releases, this edition of the game kept the real weapon names. Also, this edition had exclusive maps that were not included in the retail edition as Valve Software had not bought the rights to all maps. [52] The exclusive maps were Arabstreets , Dust2 , Estate , Foption , Highrise , Inferno , Nuke , Rotterdam , Tundra , Vegas and Vertigo . Some of these maps were removed/introduced in subsequent patches.
When Counter-Strike was transferred to Steam with version 1.6, this edition was discontinued.
Original retail release
This edition was the first standalone release of Counter-Strike and Half-Life was not required to play the game. Since this edition of the game was like any other regular retail game release, Valve Software had to alter the weapon names and used made up names to prevent having to face legal issues. [16] On a more curious note, the names of two Terrorist factions were also slightly altered for this edition. It is not known why this change was made or why it was exclusive to this edition of the game.
Valve Software had only bought the rights to some of the maps that were part of Counter-Strike , thus this release included fewer maps than the mod edition of the game. [52] Separate map packs were released via the official web site that added the missing maps to this edition. [53] However, the training map was exclusive to this edition of the game. [54]
Older retail releases including the original Half-Life: Counter-Strike , Half-Life: Generation and Half-Life: Platinum Collection include this edition of the game.
When Counter-Strike was transferred to Steam with version 1.6, this edition was discontinued.
This edition of the game was based on the retail edition meaning that it uses made-up weapon names and the slightly altered Terrorist faction names. Compared to the retail edition many of the missing maps were added. The added maps were Dust2 , Estate , Inferno , Nuke and Vertigo . Curiously the training map was removed.
Newer retail releases including Counter-Strike 1 Anthology include this edition of the game.
This is the only edition that is still supported and is still occasionally being updated. Owners of the retail edition or the original Half-Life retail release can migrate to this edition by activating the CD key on Steam.
“ The best multiplayer game of 2000, bar none. ” ―Game Revolution [61]
Counter-Strike has received generally favorable reviews, scoring an average of 88/100 and 89/100 on the aggregator sites Metacritic and GameRankings respectively. [55] [56]
Reviewers praised the teamplay and social aspects of the game. Scott Osbourne of GameSpot thought the round based gameplay allowed chatting dead players forming a sense of tension. [58] Clayton Wolfe of IGN thought that successful teamplay was the recipe for ensuring a victory for ones team. [59] At Computer Games Magazine, Bill Hiles stated that "teamwork is crucial for success" and noted that better players utilized coordinated team efforts to succeed in the game. [57]
The choice of weapons was praised by Osbourne, with him stating that "one of Counter-Strike's biggest appeals has always been the selection of weapons". [58] Dan Watson of PC Gameworld thought the weapon modeling was excellent and that they handled realistically. [60]
While Wolfe felt that the weapon purchasing system was frustrating at first, it quickly stated feeling like an enhancement to the online experience. [59] Watson thought the purchasing system brought a great deal of variety to the game, stating that "one round may find you perched on a fire escape with a high-caliber sniper rifle, while on the next round you may choose to bust in the front door with a double-barreled shotgun". [60]
Journalists were torn on the graphical side of the game. Osbourne stated that "the Half-Life graphics engine may be dated now, but Counter-Strike has always used it to its fullest potential" and thought the new player model graphics were especially good. [58] Wolfe stated that "visually the game will not disappoint" even though the Half-Life engine was dated and thought the environmental textures looked "realistic enough". [59] Watson however thought the game had a noticeably dated look, stating that "no amount of tweaking can disguise the fact that this engine is based on a two-year-old core, and a facelift would really work wonders". [60]
The weapon sound effects were well received by Osbourne, Wolfe and Watson. Scott Osbourne thought "the guns sound remarkably realistic and powerful, which makes them viscerally fun to shoot". [58] IGN editor Wolfe concluded that "the realistic guns sounds are spot on". [59] Watson thought the sound effects in overall were on par or superior to other games on the market. [60] However, Wolfe thought that the other sound effects used sounded wimpy and he had hoped for deeper bass and clearer sounds. [59]
Generally, reviewer concluded that the retail release was a good buy for people who didn't own Half-Life or didn't have access to high-speed internet connections. [57] [58] [59] It was also seen as a good release from the point of convenience as everything needed to play the game online was available on a single CD. [57]
As of December 3, 2008, Counter-Strike has sold over 4.2 million retail copies, more than any other Valve game besides Half-Life and its sequel, Half-Life 2 . [62] Since Counter-Strike is also available as a modification for Half-Life , part of the Half-Life sales are commonly attributed to the success of Counter-Strike . [63] In fact, the sales of Half-Life increased year-on-year for a few years after its release which was very unusual at the time as most games had a shelf life of around 3 months. Gabe Newell attributed this pattern to the popularity of Counter-Strike and thought the release of the mod was the best thing that could have happened to Half-Life . [64]
After its release, the game topped many lists as the most popular online game. [65] [66] Even in 2015, 15 years after the release of the game, the game frequented the top 25 games played on Steam list and its longevity has outlasted both Counter-Strike: Condition Zero and Counter-Strike: Source . [67] [68]
Counter-Strike has won various awards. It won the Game Developers Conference Game Spotlight award in 2001. [69] The game was also granted the Game of the Year 2000 title by Gamers.com while Voodoo Extreme gave it the readers choice award. [70] Computer Games Magazine, Game Revolution, Electronic Playground and GameSpot (UK and US) all granted it the award of best online/multiplayer game of 2000. [70]
Counter-Strike is considered one of the most influential multiplayer games of all time. [71] The game is also attributed to having pushed the competitive gaming movement forward. [72] It has also been reported that Counter-Strike was the first game for which a fantasy league was started. [73]
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero ( CS:CZ ) is a first-person shooter video game and the sequel to the original Counter-Strike . The game was released in 2004 via both retail stores and Steam and uses the GoldSrc engine. Condition Zero features a multiplayer mode, which features updated character models, textures, maps, and other graphical tweaks. It is bundled with a copy of Counter-Strike regardless of how you purchase it.
Unlike other Counter-Strike games, Condition Zero also contains a single-player mission pack with the player unlocking maps and more efficient bots as they pass certain requirements for each map while playing as a Counter-Terrorist . These requirements include objectives such as "kill 3 enemies with a Clarion 5.56 " or "win a round in 45 seconds". This game mode is called Tour of Duty .
There is another single-player mission pack called Deleted Scenes . So far, Condition Zero is the only game in the franchise that features a single-player campaign.
Condition Zero is known for introducing the Counter-Strike bot , although the Xbox version of Counter-Strike was actually the first game in the series to include it.
As of April 15, 2009, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is one of the ten most played Half-Life modifications in terms of players, according to GameSpy. [1]
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was originally designed to introduce a single-player Counter-Strike experience and therefore it has more in-depth single-player modes available than other entries in the series. In addition to two different single-player modes, the traditional multiplayer mode is also available.
Tour of Duty map selection menu
The Tour of Duty single-player mode is the main single-player mode in the game. It allows players to play regular multiplayer maps in an arcade-like single-player experience. The basic setting is very similar to a regular multiplayer game as the game utilizes the new bot AI to enable the possibility of having team mates and enemies in the game. Each map has a certain amount of objectives which include killing a certain amount of enemies or rescuing hostages. Usually, some restrictions such as achieving the objectives with a specific weapon or within a certain time frame accompany the objectives. When these objectives are completed, the player earns a reputation point. Reputation points are needed to unlock the next set of maps and they are also used to recruit new or better team mates.
Starting with version 1.1 , the game supports the possibility of creating custom campaigns for the game mode. Since the release of this support, numerous unofficial campaigns have been released online.
The Deleted Scenes part of the game is included as a separate bonus game. This part consists of major parts of the work done by Ritual Entertainment for their iteration of the game. There are major differences in game mechanics and weapon balance in this game mode compared to a Counter-Strike multiplayer game or the Tour of Duty mode. This game plays more like a traditional linear shooter like Half-Life than a multiplayer game of Counter-Strike .
While it was originally planned to have cross-compatibility between online players of Counter-Strike and players of Condition Zero , [2] the two games feature completely separate multiplayer communities in a much criticized move. For the most part, the multiplayer game itself is identical to that of the original Counter-Strike .
One major difference is the ability to add bots to servers. These bots function much like any other player taking up regular player slots. The server admin can freely choose the amount of bots they want to include in a server, thus it is also possible to play a multiplayer game solo without other human players using bots.
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero includes support for all the scenarios from the original Counter-Strike ( hostage rescue , bomb defusal and assassination ). It is also possible to play the escape scenario, but no such maps are included by default and no effort was put into enabling support for this scenario for the bots or the Tour of Duty game mode.
When Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was originally released, the hostage rescue scenario was identical to that of the original Counter-Strike . Starting with version 1.2 of the game, some quite major changes to the scenario were made.
The basics of the scenario still remain the same with Counter-Terrorists attempting to rescue the hostages (4 in all new Condition Zero maps) by bringing them to the hostage rescue zone and Terrorists attempting to foil their plans. Victory can also be attained by eliminating the opposing team.
Hostages reacting to gunfire
However, the hostage AI was updated in version 1.2 to utilize some of the same routines as the bot AI does. Using these routines, hostages have gained the ability to find their way to the hostage rescue zones by themselves, that is unless a terrorist approaches them in which case they will run back to their original location. They also show emotions and react to their surroundings, signaling approaching Counter-Terrorists whether any Terrorists are nearby. In addition, hostages also have the ability to climb ladders. Since this updated logic is based on the bot AI, the absence of a bot navigation file for the map will revert the hostage logic to that of the original Counter-Strike .
The hostage models also received a make-over in version 1.2, coinciding with this major hostage rescue scenario update. These models were likely created by Turtle Rock Studios , [3] but they were based on hostage models created by Ritual Entertainment. As these updated models are hard coded to override the hostage models specified by the map file, [4] it is no longer possible to use map specific custom hostage models following this update.
Bots also fully support this scenario with Counter-Terrorists properly trying to rescue the hostages and Terrorists attempting to defend them. The Tour of Duty game mode also has several scenario specific tasks available for hostage rescue.
Bomb defusal functions exactly like it does in the original Counter-Strike . One player on the Terrorist team starts off with a bomb which has to be planted at one of two bombsites. Once planted the bomb will detonate after a specific amount of time and successful detonation will lead to victory for the Terrorist team. Counter-Terrorists may attempt to defuse the bomb and successful defusal yields victory to the Counter-Terrorists. Victory can also be attained by eliminating the opposing team.
Complete bot support for the scenario is available and the Tour of Duty game mode also offers tasks specific to bomb defusal scenarios.
New VIP model
While no new assassination maps were introduced with Condition Zero , the fact that all maps from the original Counter-Strike are included means that the lone assassination map Oilrig is part of the game. Gameplay remains identical to the original game, but other updates were made to support the scenario. To complement the new player models, an upgraded player model is introduced for the VIP .
The official bots also support playing this scenario, but it can be argued that this support was mostly an afterthought. Bots that take the role of the VIP will properly strive to reach escape zones in maps. However, they play like any regular bot making no additional efforts at keeping oneself alive. This is especially apparent when a bot VIP runs out of the limited pistol ammunition, as it will attempt to charge at any encountered enemies armed only with a knife.
With the introduction of custom campaign support for the Tour of Duty mode, a scenario specific task for the assassination mode, which entailed killing the VIP, was also introduced. [5] However, despite this task getting implemented it doesn't work properly and can in fact never be achieved. [6] Additionally, starting an assassination map via the Tour of Duty game mode will incorrectly identify the map as a hostage rescue scenario during the loading screen.
Most of the maps included in the game were maps taken from previous work on the game by Ritual Entertainment . In addition, the remakes of classic Counter-Strike maps created by Ritual for the Xbox port of Counter-Strike were also made part of the game. In fact, the only new map originating from the time Turtle Rock Studios was working on the game was Sienna , which was a collaborative effort of veteran Counter-Strike level designer David Johnston , Valve Software and Turtle Rock. [4]
A total of four maps were added to the game post-release via game patches .
In addition to the new maps included with Condition Zero , all maps from the original Counter-Strike are also playable via Condition Zero . There is out-of-the-box bot support included for all the new and original maps. The listing below only includes the maps (or versions of them) that are part of Condition Zero .
*Some of these maps have been worked on by numerous people and companies. This lists the original author of the map only; the person mainly responsible for the general geometry of the map.
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero features exactly the same arsenal of weapons and equipment as the original Counter-Strike . The possibility of weapons exclusive to Deleted Scenes being introduced was mentioned, [7] but this never happened.
Back when Ritual Entertainment was working on Counter-Strike: Condition Zero , they had remade all of the weapon models in the game. However, some people felt that some of these models looked too different from the original Counter-Strike weapon models. Therefore the models originally created by Ritual were slightly modified and then introduced into Condition Zero starting with version 1.1 . [8]
When Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was initially released, it had the same factions as the original Counter-Strike . In * version 1.2 , two new factions were added: the American Terrorists Midwest Militia and the Russian Counter-Terrorists Spetsnaz .
Condition Zero was supposed to use the player models that Ritual Entertainment had created, but due to technical difficulties with these models the game was initially launched using the original Counter-Strike models. [9] However, in version 1.1 of the game the enhanced player models originally made by Ritual were added to the game. Owners of Condition Zero can also choose to use these enhanced models in the original Counter-Strike .
Each team has five available factions that players can choose as their third-person model.
The development of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero originally started in 2001 with Rogue Entertainment working on the game, but development was overtaken by Gearbox Software relatively quickly due to concerns with the financial stability of Rogue Entertainment. After about a year of development, Gearbox Software decided to withdraw from the project and in mid 2002 Ritual Entertainment took over development before the game finally landed in the hands of the relatively young Turtle Rock Studios in mid 2003.
Turtle Rock Studios had already been involved with development of the game when Ritual Entertainment was in charge of its development in the form of the official bots. [10] Internal playtests at Valve Software and early reviews of the game developed by Ritual Entertainment had revealed some serious short comings in its design. [2] On the other hand, the official bot created by Turtle Rock Studios had been very well received by the community and the press, which is why Valve Software decided to give Turtle Rock the responsibility of redesigning the game from scratch in around June 2003. [11]
The design by Turtle Rock Studios drew some inspiration from sports games, [7] and due to the success of the bots it became possible to build very flexible arcade-like missions for the game. [12] While the design of the game by Gearbox Software was never officially mentioned as a source of inspiration, the similarities are quite obvious. Instead of completely scrapping the work done by Ritual Entertainment, the decision was made to package it up as a bonus game of sorts with the title Counter-Strike: Condition Zero Deleted Scenes .
On October 8, 2003 the version of the game designed by Turtle Rock Studios was unveiled to the public and it was to go gold by October 10, 2003 and be available at retail and via Steam on November 18, 2003. [12] Only a day after this version of the game had been announced, it would end up getting leaked coinciding with the Half-Life 2 leak . [13]
By the time November 18, 2003 came around the game was nowhere to be seen. According to Jess Cliffe , the game had been delayed due to work needed to be done by the publisher in finalizing international versions of the game. [14] Soon, Valve Software would also drag this into their on-going lawsuit with the publisher Vivendi Universal Games claiming that Vivendi purposefully delayed the release of Condition Zero which made it miss the 2003 holiday season. [15]
Despite the lack of a release date for the title, Valve Software decided to organize a launch party for the game on December 16, 2003. The event was announced to be open to anyone over 21 of age and was held at the House of Shields in San Francisco. Attendees were supposed to be able to play the final version of the game at the event. [16] However, accounts by non-employees that tried to join the event indicate that it was in fact invite only and others were turned away at the door. [17]
In a further move of bad luck, Condition Zero was leaked for the second time in early January 2004. [18] However, the following month on February 25, 2004 publisher Vivendi Universal Games announced the long awaited release date of March 23, 2004 for the game. [19] This time the game would no longer slip, and after almost 3 since the game was initially announced it was finally released on March 23, 2004. [20]
Post-release, the game was updated with substantial new content including higher quality character and weapon models, new maps, a new radar/location system and a major change to the hostage rescue scenario.
On February 21, 2013 a beta of the game was made available for Linux and Mac OS X and on March 7, 2013 support for these platforms was officially released. [21]
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero utilizes some of the music originally composed by Zak Belica when Ritual Entertainment was working on the game. In addition to music featured in the main menu, several pieces are used within the Tour of Duty game mode.
Enhanced sound effects were introduced to the game in version 1.1 . While enhanced sound effects had been created by Zak Belica of Ritual Entertainment for most of the old sound effects (including ambience and map specific sound effects), only weapon firing sounds and player actions sounds were replaced with enhanced versions. Not all of these were taken directly from the work by Belica as it was felt that some of these sounds deviated too far from the original sound effects, thus many of these sound effects were remade. [5]
Game screenshot with tutor providing a hint (top-right) and location indicator below radar
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero introduces an extended help/tutor system. This provides real-time assistance to new players of the game based on events that occur in the game. These include instructions on how to win bomb defusal and hostage rescue maps and the usefulness of special equipment such as the defusal kit . When spectating, the tutor will provide random hints regarding general gameplay. To prevent experienced users from getting annoyed, the tutor can be disabled. Curiously, having the tutor enabled disables the kill feed.
A major update was also made to the buy menu in version 1.1 with the introduction of buy packages. Players can configure a total of four different buy packages that include primary and secondary weapons and equipment. There is also the possibility of configuring fall back weapons/equipment that will be purchased in case the player is low on funds.
Another major change to the interface is the introduction of a location system to the radar, introduced in version 1.2 . This system uses data stored in the bot navigation files to name different areas of the map. When chatting, messages automatically include which area the players are in. Bots also utilize this information to provide voice feedback on e.g. where they have encountered enemies. Because the location data is completely separate from the map itself, it is possible to add support for place names to custom maps without having access to the map source. Condition Zero ships with navigation files including the place name information for all new maps and the original Counter-Strike maps.
The most important piece of new technology introduced with Condition Zero to the PC platform were the bots. In order to provide some enhancement to the dated look of the GoldSrc engine, detail texture support was also introduced.
The bots that are included with the game were developed by Michael Booth of Turtle Rock Studios and development on the bots was started when Ritual Entertainment was still in charge of development on the game. [10] While a bot had already been developed by Gearbox Software for their iteration of the game , this bot was scrapped and Booth started from scratch as he had a quite different approach for creating the bot. [10] Unlike any other bot until the release of Condition Zero , this bot has the capability of automatically learning new maps, making it possible to use it on most custom maps without requiring intervention by the user. [10]
This bot was beta tested by the public in the original Counter-Strike between June 5, 2003 and September 9, 2003 . [22] [23] However, major advances in the behavior of the bots were made after this beta test. As said by Michael Booth, the beta tested bots were "version one" and the bots introduced in Condition Zero were "version one-point-five". [24]
Due to the delayed release date of Condition Zero , the original plan for the bot to be introduced in Condition Zero didn't hold and it was in fact first released as part of the Xbox port of Counter-Strike .
Coinciding with the release of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero , Valve Software added support for detail textures to the GoldSrc engine. This support was enabled by utilizing code originally created by Ritual Entertainment for the Xbox port of the game. [25] Detail textures function by having map specific text files which specify detail textures for each regular texture that are blended on top of the regular textures, providing a simple and relatively inexpensive way of boosting the texture quality of maps. All the new maps included in Condition Zero ship with support for detail textures.
As the map format used by Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is identical to that of the original Counter-Strike , tools previously released to enable designing of maps for the original game can also be used to design maps for Condition Zero .
Custom campaign support for the Tour of Duty game mode was added in version 1.1 of the game via what was referred to as the Mission Creation Kit . This included an update to the game mode that added support for new tasks to allow the creation of Terrorist-based missions and the inclusion of assassination maps. It also became possible to create campaign specific bot profiles and to assign custom models player models for bots. [5] Shortly after the release of custom campaign support, a document was added to the game which serves as a tutorial for creating new campaigns and customizing bots. This document also covers usage of the new tasks that are not used in the official campaign.
On August 31, 2013, coinciding with the release of the Half-Life SDK on Steam, [26] the SDK was updated to include various prop models that had been created for Condition Zero during the development of the game. Some of these prop models had not been previously released as part of either Condition Zero or Deleted Scenes .
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was released via retail and via Steam . In either case, the game utilizes Steam for updates as retail copies of the game include a CD key which allows the game to be activated on Steam. In addition to providing a means of updating the game, Condition Zero also utilizes the Valve Anti-Cheat technology provided by Steam to combat cheating.
Promotional trading cards
As substantial amounts of marketing material had already been created for Counter-Strike: Condition Zero when Ritual Entertainment was developing the title, little new material was produced and most marketing material was reused. The final box art of the game looks pretty much identical to the box art revealed for the earlier version of the game, which is likely why the logo of Turtle Rock Studios was absent from the box art of the game.
The series of 20 trading cards originally created to promote the version of the game designed by Ritual Entertainment were now included as a pre-order incentive for the game, [19] despite the fact that material shown on them was exclusively part of the game designed by Ritual Entertainment.
Possibly in an attempt to increase the appeal of the game for Half-Life fans, it had been announced back when Ritual Entertainment was still developing Condition Zero that new "exclusive" footage of Half-Life 2 would be bundled with the game. [27] This footage was also included with final retail copies of the game. [28] However, the footage actually originated from the E3 2003 showcase of Half-Life 2 , [29] meaning that it was in fact neither new nor exclusive and it was very outdated by the time the Condition Zero was finally released.
In addition, Prima Games had previously completed the official strategy guide for the version of the game designed by Ritual Entertainment . [30] It would seem that this guide was modified by adding information pertaining to the Tour of Duty game mode, and information pertaining to the six missions that were initially absent from the release of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero Deleted Scenes was removed. This would explain some oddities in the guide such as mentions of the Kidotai faction, the General MG 60 and the LAW Rocket .
Counter-Strike: Condition Zero received a mixed reception by the press, scoring an average of 67/100 and 65/100 by GameRankings and Metacritic respectively.
The main feature of the game, the bot AI was generally praised, with PC Zone stating that the bots are "so intelligent they make your average online player look like a baboon who's been dropped at birth". GameSpot thought actions performed by the bots like breaking windows to reach certain areas more quickly were remarkable.
Reception for the Tour of Duty game mode was quite mixed, with PC Gamer criticizing the structure of the game mode and thought there was too little replayability. PC Zone on the other hand applauded the decision to change the design of the single-player mode to the more arcade approach reminiscent of the type of gameplay originally promised from the game when Gearbox Software was developing it.
The Deleted Scenes portion of the game was considered a nice bonus, but GameSpot stated that the decision to purchase the game shouldn't be made based on them as the missions were so heavily scripted that they didn't feel like Counter-Strike at all.
However, the dated engine of the game was particularly criticized with reviewers stating that the game arrived too late and that the visuals were no match against other shooters released at the time.
Reviewers that had previously reviewed the version of Condition Zero designed by Ritual Entertainment praised the decision to redesign the game. In the end though, comparing the review scores of that version to the final version shows only marginal improvement in the scores.
Generally, reviewers concluded that Condition Zero was a good purchase for people who had yet to play Counter-Strike , but that people who already owned Counter-Strike should pass on it since they already had access to the most important part: the multiplayer component.
Despite the mixed reception by the press, the game would be quite a success in terms of sales. As of 2008, the game had sold 2.9 million copies via retail, outperforming Counter-Strike: Source in retail sales. [38] This may not directly correlate to actual sales volume as Steam was more mature by the time Counter-Strike: Source was released, suggesting that compared to Condition Zero a larger share of Counter-Strike: Source sales were digital (via Steam) instead of retail.
An older build of the game, known as "cstrike_trs" (Counter-Strike: Turtle Rock Studios), was leaked with several other mods and the Half-Life 2 Beta in 2003. This build includes the multiplayer and offline portions of the game with bot support, and spots several differences:
Just like in the initial release of Condition Zero the following features were not yet implemented:
Counter-Strike: Source ( CS:S ) is a multiplayer first-person shooter developed by Valve Corporation as a complete remake of the original Counter-Strike on the Source engine . As in the original, Counter-Strike: Source pits a team of Counter-Terrorists against a team of Terrorists in a series of rounds. Each round is won either by completing an objective (such as detonating a bomb or rescuing hostages ) or by eliminating all members of the opposition before time is up.
Counter-Strike: Source is a remake of Counter-Strike , and consequently retains its team-based objective-oriented first-person shooter style gameplay. The aim of playing a map is to accomplish a map's objective. There are many types of objectives that a map can have, but the ultimate goal of the game is to win more rounds than the opposing team, which is accomplished by fulfilling the map's winning conditions. Some winning conditions include defusing a bomb , planting a bomb and preventing it from being defused by the other team, rescuing all the hostages on a map, preventing the hostages from being rescued, and defeat all the members of the opposing team. When playing on a server without modifications, if players are defeated during a round, they do not respawn until the next round, unlike in many other first-person shooter games, where players respawn on a set timer.
Moving and shooting also differs noticeably from many other first-person shooters. Shooting while moving dramatically decreases accuracy, and holding the mouse button down to continuously shoot will generally produce severe recoil. Recoil can be difficult for beginning players to compensate for because the player's reticle does not correspond with where the bullets actually hit during continuous fire, so beginning players may aim too high during automatic fire. The amount of damage done by a bullet varies dramatically depending upon the body part the bullet hits, with great emphasis on shooting the enemy in the head, which is almost invariably lethal.
Several elements of the gameplay were modified from their Counter-Strike iteration, such as the behavior of the grenades, the physics engine, and the weapons' recoil. The smoke grenades in Counter-Strike: Source spread much more slowly than the ones in Counter-Strike , and the flashbangs , which now utilize DirectX 9 effects, have a much more pronounced effect, and bounce very differently from the ones in Counter-Strike . Counter-Strike: Source also implements physics objects, such as filing cabinets, which the user can interact with while playing. The recoil in Counter-Strike: Source differs from the recoil in Counter-Strike in that while Counter-Strike had perfectly consistent recoil, the recoil in Counter-Strike: Source is much less precise. Furthermore, the addition of ragdoll physics marks another difference between Counter-Strike and Counter-Strike: Source . AI has been improved as well, their attacks are considerably more accurate, and they will "read" the tactical map. Once they are alerted to the player's appearance, they will engage faster than in the older games. AI will attempt to retreat if they spot snipers.
At launch, Counter-Strike: Source had a total of nine official maps, and nine were added at a later date. With the exception of Compound and Port , all were official remakes of maps available in the original games.
Hostage rescue
See page Counter-Strike: Source Alpha for information about the Alpha stages of Counter-Strike: Source.
During the initial production of the Source engine, Team Fortress 2 was to be the first multiplayer game to be released on it. After various development issues, TF2 was eventually delayed until long after the release of Half-Life 2 . Wanting a multiplayer component, Valve decided to create a remake of the popular Counter-Strike with help from Turtle Rock Studios , who were also developing Counter-Strike: Condition Zero at the time. Many of the features in Condition Zero , including bot AI, were implemented from the start. Maps started as basic layouts of the originals that were redesigned with help from concept art and 3D skybox technology.
Counter-Strike: Source was announced to the public on May 12, 2004 at E3 presentation [1] [2] and was initially released as a beta to members of the Valve Cyber Café Program on August 11 of the same year. [3] On August 18, the beta was released to owners of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero and those who had received a Half-Life 2 voucher bundled with some ATI Radeon video cards. [4] The game was officially released on October 7, 2004. [5]
On November 1, 2006, Valve released an experimental update , Dynamic Weapon Pricing . Under this system, item prices are determined based on their demand the previous week. Even before the system was released there was opposition from the community, and the system was eventually removed. Other updates, such as an enhanced radar system, have been generally accepted as a positive enhancement.
On March 5, 2010, Valve announced the release of its entire first-party library, including Counter-Strike , on the Mac OS X platform, for release in April 2010. [6]
On May 11, 2010, Valve released an update , in the form of a beta, that includes new features and functionality developed in collaboration with Hidden Path Entertainment . These include 144 new achievements, a new domination and revenge system, similar to that of Team Fortress 2 , MVP rank, player stats, engine upgrades from The Orange Box codebase, and more.
On June 23, 2010, Valve closed the beta and released the update to everybody who owns Counter-Strike: Source . With this update, Counter-Strike: Source was made available to Mac users via SteamPlay.
The beta was re-opened later in 2010, and Hidden Path Entertainment continues to release updates for it, some of which have been added to the retail version of Counter-Strike: Source . [7] It has since been shut down.
Counter-Strike: Source content is accessible in another Source engine game known as Garry's Mod . However, only maps and models, such as world model of weapons, and textures are included (including player models that contain Garry's Mod version of player animations). All other content must be downloaded from the Steam Workshop . In addition, most workshop/addon maps for Garry's Mod often uses Counter-Strike: Source textures. Source Filmmaker is also notorious for requiring Counter-Strike: Source 's textures as well for most workshop contents.
There are 147 achievements in Counter-Strike: Source .
Because of the large fan-base that Counter-Strike: Source has accumulated, there is a wide variety of different customizations and add-ons that can be used with the game. There is a large fanbase for the game that creates customized sounds, textures, weapon skins, and player skins, though many servers disable the use of custom textures/skins because of cheating concerns.
Like many other modern games, Counter-Strike: Source has been heavily modded by its community. Server-side gameplay customizations are typically implemented using Source SDK . Server-side mods like SourceMod, and EventScripts build on the basic RCON commands as well as gameplay customizations.
The ability to add new models and skins to Counter-Strike: Source allows for a large amount of customization. Skins refers to the actual images applied to parts of the game. The player models, weapon models, and maps themselves can be "reskinned" (or "retextured") by anybody. Models refers to the actual 3D-elements displayed on screen. Available is a server side variable to ensure only certain models and materials are used, intending to stop material-based wallhacks. Not all servers use this limitation as it is optional.
Models can be changed either by the player adding files to their cstrike folder, or by the server they are playing on using a server-side plugin. The difference is that if a player changes a model on his or her own machine, only that player will see the changes, but if the model is altered by a server-side plugin or tool, then the model that the player is wearing is seen by everyone on that server at that time. Also, the server can choose to force a "skin-consistency", meaning that any custom skins that any players may have will appear as the default model.
After the Steam-pipe update, custom models will only load when the required files are put into a folder named custom in the cstrike directory. In addition, skins enforcing for local server can be disabled with the console command sv_pure -1 .
In 2010, Hidden Path Entertainment worked on a port of Counter-Strike: Source to consoles, but the project eventually led into Counter-Strike 1.5 , which itself evolved into a new game in the series, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive . [8]
Counter-Strike Source Beta Pre Release E3 2004 Announcement Gameplay Trailer
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive ( CS:GO ) is a first-person shooter video game which is a part of the Counter-Strike series . It was announced to the public on August 12, 2011, and is developed by Valve Corporation and their partner, Hidden Path Entertainment . The game was later released on August 21, 2012 for the Playstation 3, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows, macOS and later Linux as a downloadable title.
On September 27, 2023, Counter-Strike 2 was released, replacing Global Offensive on Steam and forcing all its servers go offline. Support for Global Offensive ended on January 1, 2024. The Xbox 360 version of the game still remains online. [1]
On March 3, 2026, the game was added back to Steam and can be installed on its own, reusing the legacy branch hidden within Counter-Strike 2 as its own separate product.
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive makes a few adjustments to the original gameplay formula of the Counter-Strike series. Compared to Counter-Strike: Source , weapon damage models were rebalanced. There is improved bullet penetration through some walls, materials, and objects. The Radio Commands for bots and players have been updated, among other changes which include (but are not limited to):
There are a total of 34 weapons in Global Offensive , 19 of which are exclusive to the game. Among those 19, 10 are replacements of old weapons, retaining their role but are modelled after new guns, and the other 9 are unique weapons with new roles and properties. Returning weapons also have many changes made to their general properties.
Global Offensive contains several multiplayer game modes.
In addition, Global Offensive offers Offline with Bots, which offers the same game modes with AI-controlled bots (with the exception of Danger Zone); and the Weapons Course , a single player map serving as a tutorial and a training mode.
At launch, Global Offensive had a total of 16 official maps: 8 updated classic maps, and 8 brand new maps for the Arsenal game mode. More maps were added to the game in later patches.
Maps added in post-release can only be accessed through the PC version of the game.
* Made available to arms race at a later date.
Global Offensive features a mix of old and new factions, with a total of fourteen unique factions. Factions are no longer selectable at the start of a game. Instead, each map has its own specific T and CT factions. It is the second game in the series to do so, following Counter-Strike (Xbox) .
Unlike previous Counter-Strike games, where all factions had the same quotes from the same voice actor , each faction now has its own quotes and voice actor.
All factions (aside from the SAS) have five different possible models, randomly chosen upon spawn.
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive started off as an Xbox 360 port of Counter-Strike: Source by Hidden Path Entertainment. Seeing this as an opportunity to expand the franchise, Valve turned it into an entirely new game. [9]
Jess Cliffe confirmed the title " Global Offensive " on the official Steam forums on August 11, 2011, [10] while Valve later confirmed with its official announcement on August 12, 2011 [11] .
Counter-Strike: Global Offensive uses the latest version of the Source engine and is not built off of Counter-Strike: Source . After the success of the previous game, Valve wanted the newest game in the franchise to cater to both the casual and competitive community by including a matchmaking system as well as support for dedicated servers.
Valve announced the beta would begin in October, but after receiving feedback from professional players who had been invited to playtest earlier versions of the beta, Valve decided to delay the beta [12] . After addressing the majority of the issues the closed beta started on November 30, 2011 to a pool of around 10,000 select players. After almost a year of the closed beta, Valve opened the beta up starting August 14, 2012 to anyone who had pre-ordered the game.
As of yet, the console versions have not been updated and are extremely different when compared to their Steam counterpart. It is currently unknown whether or not Valve has plans for updating these versions.
Updates to the game after its release can be tracked at Valve's Product Updates channel .
Valve is known for providing active support and continuous updates for its titles, and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive is no exception. Since the beta ended, Hidden Path Entertainment have stopped its share of the development and Valve has taken over and provided countless updates to the game for everything from bug fixes and gameplay adjustments to new official content like an inventory system, the In-game Store , the weapon finishes , and even added support for the Steam Workshop to allow custom content. Major content DLCs known as Operations are released once several months, each lasting over several seasons, bringing in new permanent content as well as seasonal content.
In the "Hello CS" presentation in China [13] , it was announced that the game's engine would be ported to Source 2 in Summer 2017 along with the addition of a new UI called Panorama , and a special modified version of Counter-Strike: Global Offensive would be released in China, via Perfect World .
Since December 6, 2018, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive has become completely free. However, in order to play at prime matches, you need to buy the game for 15$, or reach level 21. Players who bought the game before the update of December 6, 2018, received free prime status and in honor of this they were awarded a special medal named the Loyalty Badge.
In March 2023, Valve announced an update to Global Offensive , titled Counter-Strike 2 . Using Valve's Source 2 game engine, Counter-Strike 2 features major technical improvements over Global Offensive . The game was released on September 27, 2023, replacing the previous version on Steam and shutting down all its servers.
Achievements, also known as Awards in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive , are retained from Counter-Strike: Source .
Achievements are given for completing milestones or notable actions, such as getting 1,000 kills with a particular weapon, or getting four headshots in one round. There are five categories of achievements, progression in the completion of achievements in each category will award the player with medals that can be seen on the leaderboard during matches. The list of achievements is found in the stats menu.
Counter Strike: Global Offensive received "generally favorable" reviews on Metacritic getting a metascore of 83/100 on PC, [14] 80/100 on PS3, [15] and 79/100 on Xbox 360. [16]
Counter-Strike 2 (CS2) is a first-person shooter video game developed by Valve Corporation which is a part of the Counter-Strike series . It was announced to the public on March 22, 2023 with an tentative full release for Summer 2023 and a limited test beginning the same day. [1] It was officially released on September 27, 2023. [2]
This is the first game of the Counter-Strike series which utilizes Valve's Source 2 game engine and features major technological advancements since Global Offensive such as "sub-tick" net-code technology, new voxel based volumetric smokes, and a new toolset for developing maps. [3]
Almost all gameplay aspects in CS2 remains similar, if not the same to its predecessor, CS:GO; while features some changes, ranging from minor to drastic, to fully utilize the most out of the Source 2 Engine. Some of which include:
All weapons that are used in the competitive and deathmatch mode in CS:GO have been transferred to the new game with more detailed models. Along with them, CS:GO's cosmetic items such as skins , stickers , and other types of knives were ported, though they still use the older versions of the models. [4]
Counter-Strike 2 contains several multiplayer game modes.
Counter-Strike 2 maps are classified in three distinct categories. The wide array of maps are designed to give the players some familiar maps like Dust II and Mirage to evaluate new gameplay changes, with others providing the player with entirely new experiences such as Overpass and Italy :
“ Classic maps with solid foundations that players can use to evaluate gameplay changes from CS:GO to Counter-Strike 2. These have improvements to lighting and character read, but otherwise haven't been changed. ” ―Counter-Strike 2: Leveling Up The World
“ These are maps that use new Source 2 lighting, including a physically based rendering system that produces realistic materials, lighting, and reflections. ” ―Counter-Strike 2: Leveling Up The World
“ The overhauled maps have been fully rebuilt from the ground up, leveraging all of the new Source 2 tools and rendering features. ” ―Counter-Strike 2: Leveling Up The World
For community maps that have ever officially existed in the game, see Counter-Strike 2 Community Maps
Unlike Global Offensive , Counter-Strike 2 does not feature map-based factions. Instead, only two factions appear on all maps by default - SAS for Counter-Terrorists and Phoenix Connexion for Terrorists . However, it is possible to replace the default factions with the Agents .
Agents are customizable character models that often feature more detailed designs, additional accessories, and unique visual elements. They may also belong to different factions, have distinct voice lines, and even be of a different gender.
Counter-Strike 2 features a total of thirteen unique factions:
The development of Counter-Strike 2 began long before its eventual release in 2023 and went through several iterations over the years. Work on a sequel to the original Counter-Strike began in early 2001, following the release of Counter-Strike 1.0 . [5] [6] At that time, the project was led by Minh Le , one of the original creators of the franchise.
Le envisioned Counter-Strike 2 as a significant evolution of the original game, with an emphasis on expanded gameplay mechanics and heightened realism. His goal was to create the most immersive counter-terrorism experience possible by introducing a variety of advanced features, including active civilians and hostages , human shields, attack dogs, riot shields , rappelling, and the ability to drive vehicles. [7] To achieve this, he decided to develop the game using Valve's Source engine , which was still in development at the time. [5] [6] [8] [9]
Character animation developed by Minh Le for Counter-Strike 2
Public discussions about Counter-Strike 2 emerged in January 2001, when Minh Le stated that he viewed the original Counter-Strike as finished product and was thinking about creating a sequel, but had not yet started development because the Source engine was not ready. [8] However, on May 15, 2001, Valve CEO Gabe Newell confirmed that Le had begun work on Counter-Strike 2 , using the Source engine, the same technology powering Team Fortress 2: Brotherhood of Arms . [5] In July 2001, Le himself confirmed he was developing CS2, noting that he planned to work on new player bullet hit animations. [10]
Around the same time, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was also announced, causing frequent confusion between the two projects and requiring the developers to clarify that these were distinct games. [11] [12] Later, similar misunderstandings arose between Counter-Strike 2 and Counter-Strike: Source . [13]
In 2002, the only known footage of the game was featured in CBC's documentary " First Person Shooter ". [14] [15] [16] The film primarily focused on concerns surrounding internet gaming cafés but also included a brief interview with Minh Le, showcasing him working on Counter-Strike 2 . During the segment, new player animations were visible on Minh Le's computer, including a character being shot in the back and running with an assault rifle.
By 2003, financial difficulties and an ongoing legal dispute with its publisher, Vivendi Universal Games, led Valve Software to seek a new publishing partner for Counter-Strike 2 to secure financial support amid its challenging circumstances. [17] In April of that year, Valve reached an agreement with Activision to publish the game. [18] To commemorate the deal, Gabe Newell presented the publishing partner with a knife engraved with the Counter-Strike 2 logo.
After three years of development, in 2004, Minh Le decided to halt work on the project, which had only reached approximately 25% completion. [6] [16] [19] Several factors contributed to this decision. Le encountered significant challenges during development, spending much of his time learning how to work with the still-evolving Source engine. [6] [9] [20] Additionally, he was working on the project remotely from home, and the isolation from other developers limited his ability to generate ideas and test prototypes, as he had access to only two or three playtesters. He also struggled to implement major innovations without compromising the core appeal of Counter-Strike , fearing that drastic changes might alienate the existing player base. [7] [19]
Gabe Newell's knife engraved with the Counter-Strike 2 logo
Despite the project's suspension, Valve was still contractually obligated to release Counter-Strike 2 and intended to resume development following an extended team break after the completion of Half-Life 2 . [21] However, the terms of the deal allowed the publisher to decide whether to proceed with Counter-Strike 2 once Half-Life 2 was released. [17] Ultimately, Activision declined to move forward, and Valve returned the funds as stipulated in the agreement, shifting its focus to other projects.
In 2006, Minh Le departed from Valve and later began working on a new project, Tactical Intervention , aiming to implement ideas he had originally envisioned for Counter-Strike 2 . [7] [22] Despite his ambitions, the development process was plagued by management challenges and resource constraints. Ultimately, Tactical Intervention was released in 2013 to mixed reviews, failing to achieve the success of Counter-Strike .
Although Counter-Strike 2 ’s development was shelved and progress stalled after Minh Le’s departure, public references to it by Valve employees had already stirred anticipation within the community. [5] People continued to ask about the project’s status, despite a clear lack of progress. [23]
In 2008–2009, several years after Minh Le left the project, a prototype for a new entry in the Counter-Strike series, codenamed CS2, was in development. [24] [25] Led by Ido Magal and Matt Wood , both of whom had prior experience with Counter-Strike titles, the project drew inspiration from innovative shooters at that time, such as Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare . Little is known about the prototype’s gameplay or mechanics, as development was short-lived and shelved as the team shifted focus to other projects.
By the early 2010s, Counter-Strike 's player base had begun to decline due to outdated graphics, the lack of updates , and the rise of more modern shooters. Professional tournament organizers and sponsors were also moving away from the title. [26] Valve did not have the time to revive the development of Counter-Strike 2 to preserve the franchise, however, around this period, the company collaborated with Hidden Path Entertainment on a console port of Counter-Strike: Source . To maintain the series’ relevance, the project was redirected to PC and reworked into a new main installment, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive . [27] While some ideas from the CS2 prototype were carried over, [25] the developers did not consider CS:GO to be a true sequel. [28] Instead, it was positioned as a transitional step to sustain the franchise and serve as a foundation for defining what a full successor could be. [27] [29]
Parallel to these efforts, Valve began developing a successor to the original Source engine in 2008, aiming to simplify game development and enhance content creation efficiency. [30] [31] [32] By 2010, Valve developers started porting their games to Source Engine 2.0 for internal testing to evaluate the engine’s capabilities. [30] [33] Since Source 2 was still in its early stages, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive was released in 2012 using the original Source engine. According to Chet Faliszek , the decision was driven by the team’s familiarity with the existing tools and pipeline, although he acknowledged that a future engine transition could still be possible. [34]
On November 3, 2012, following several leaks, Gabe Newell publicly confirmed that a new engine was in development, and stated that the company was waiting for the right game to launch it with. [33] [35]
Source 2 version of Dust II , made in early 2013
In June 2013, a Valve project tracker from the company’s internal Jira system was uncovered. [36] This tracker detailed every project that had ever existed within Valve, along with the teams assigned to them. Among the listed projects was Counter-Strike 2 , abbreviated as CS2. In response to rising speculation, Matt Wood clarified that this was the project from the late 2000s and stated that it was not in active development for a long time. [25]
In January 2014, illustrations from a private Valve presentation on the Source 2 engine, originally held in the summer of 2010, [30] were leaked online. [33] [37] These were accompanied by a backend file structure that listed Valve’s active Source 2 projects, with CS2 among them, contradicting earlier statements and confirming its ongoing development on new engine.
On March 3, 2015, at the Game Developers Conference, Valve officially announced the Source 2 engine. [32] During the event, the company demonstrated gameplay of Dota 2 , however, other projects mentioned in leaks, including Counter-Strike 2 , were not showcased.
On January 17, 2017, Gabe Newell stated that Source 2 was Valve’s primary game development platform and that several unannounced projects were being built on it. [38] He expressed a desire to unify all of Valve’s game development under a single engine. Ido Magal added that Source 2 includes several rewritten systems, and some CS:GO components, such as the new user interface, are already being developed using Source 2 technology. [39] However, he noted that certain Source 2 systems might not be suitable for CS:GO.
Announcement of Panorama UI during the “Hello CS” presentation in China
On April 11, 2017, during the “Hello CS” presentation in China, Valve and Perfect World announced Panorama, a new Source 2-based user interface for Counter-Strike: Global Offensive , slated for release in summer 2017. [40] A mistranslation of the presentation led to confusion in the community, with many believing the entire game would be ported to Source 2 that summer. In reality, only the Panorama UI was planned, and it was eventually released on August 2, 2018, as part of an update for CS:GO. [41]
In March 2018, former Valve employee Roger Lundeen shared screenshots on his website of the development of revamped Dust II map for CS:GO dated March–April 2013. [42] The map's highly detailed design and advanced lighting, along with Lundeen's involvement in the early development of Source 2, suggested that the map was created using the new engine.
In the years leading up to the release of Counter-Strike 2 , numerous leaks hinted that the game was nearing completion. These leaks primarily originated from game files of Valve titles built on Source 2, and later emerged from sources outside these games. [43] One of the most notable leaks occurred in the summer of 2022 when Valve developers were spotted playing Counter-Strike maps with the "_s2" postfix due to Steam 's "Rich Presence" system. [44] Another high-profile leak happened in early 2023, when references to Counter-Strike 2 were found in NVIDIA graphics card driver settings. [45]
On March 5, 2023, esports journalist Richard Lewis, citing trusted sources, confirmed the imminent release of Counter-Strike 2 . [46] He also revealed details about the game's new features, including an updated anti-cheat system , improved tickrate mechanics, enhanced competitive ranking , and upgraded graphics. Around the same time, a group of CS:GO content creators and casters traveled to Seattle, later revealing that they had visited Valve's headquarters and participated in private playtests of the game. [47] [48]
Counter-Strike 2 was officially announced on March 22, 2023, and three videos demonstrating changes made from Global Offensive were released. [3] Later that day, a beta version of Counter-Strike 2 , known as the " Limited Test ", was released to select Global Offensive players. [1] Throughout the existence of the Limited Test , new aspects of the game were made available for testing via updates, including upgraded maps , the revised weapon loadout system, and new authoring tools that allow players to design custom maps, weapon skins , and stickers . On August 31, 2023, the Limited Test was released to all players that have Global Offensive in Steam library and were active in competitive matchmaking. [49]
Counter-Strike 2 released to the public on September 27, 2023, replacing Global Offensive on Steam. [2] This took CS:GO down, with the exception of community servers, which are accessible via a "legacy" branch of Global Offensive . Several features from CS:GO were removed, including War Games and Danger Zone game mode, many official maps, and all 167 in-game achievements . In addition, support for the macOS operating system and older hardware configurations, including DirectX 9 and 32-bit operating systems, was discontinued, with future updates for Counter-Strike 2 being set to release only on 64-bit Windows and Linux systems.
The official minimum requirements are Windows 10 (64-bit), an Intel Core i5-750 or higher CPU, 8 GB of RAM, and a graphics card with at least 1GB of memory (DirectX 11 and Shader Model 5.0 compatible). [50] [51]
Many players were initially disappointed by the increased requirements and experienced lag on low-end machines. Although Counter-Strike 2 has higher system requirements compared to Global Offensive , the community has found ways to optimize the game for weaker hardware. Players on low-end systems are advised to reduce graphics settings, such as lowering shadow and texture quality, disabling MSAA, FXAA, and V-Sync, in order to achieve more stable frame rates. [52]
Counter-Strike Neo (Japanese: カウンターストライク ネオ) is a Japanese arcade adaptation of Counter-Strike , the original Half-Life multiplayer modification. It is published by Namco and runs on a Linux system using NVIDIA graphics. The game features unique maps, factions, and setting, though the gameplay and the weapon selection remain the same as other games. The game's online service had run from 2003 to 2010 using Namco's LEDZONE service.
Neo includes several major and minor changes. The game does not feature traditional Terrorist versus Counter-Terrorist scenarios, the two sides are renamed CSF (Cosmopolitan Special Forces) and NEO respectively. It incorporates a matchmaking and Elo-derived rating system to help keep players and teams on even footing. The game is anime-themed to better market it in Japan.
Example of CSNeo gameplay
An example of a clan war. Which most likely a first taste at E-Sports for Japan
Counter-Strike Online ( CSO or CSOL ) is a spin-off multiplayer first-person shooter in the Counter-Strike series . It is targeted towards the Asian gaming market, developed by South Korean company NEXON Corporation with oversight from license-holder Valve Corporation , and is using the GoldSrc engine. Some of the models and maps are reused from Counter-Strike: Condition Zero . It uses a micropayment model that is managed by a custom version of the Steam back-end.
Counter-Strike Online features some old game modes from the previous games in the series as well as new ones, modified version of custom modes.
The game also features a variety of additions over the international games, such as an introduction of female characters, numerous new weapons and skins for previous weapons. Most of the weapons are "locked" by default, so cash points or game points are essential to purchase them. Cash points are purchased through real-world money for special weapons, skins, power-ups, etc. You can also buy standard weapons for periods of time using game points earned from playing the game.
Counter-Strike Online 2 is another free-to-play massively multiplayer online video game developed by Nexon of South Korea using the Source engine from Valve software. It was first introduced in late 2012 and ended its Beta stage in January 2013.
Counter-Strike Nexon: Studios is the first adaptation of the infamous Counter-Strike Online to the USA via Steam , available from September 23, 2014, and officially relaunched on October 7, 2014. [1]
Counter-Strike Online 2 ( CSO2 or CSOL2 ) is a spin-off MMOFPS in the Counter-Strike series. It is targeted towards the Asian gaming market, developed by South Korean company NEXON Corporation with oversight from license-holder Valve Corporation , and is using the Source engine.
Counter-Strike Online 2 started off as a online game based on Counter-Strike: Source by NEXON Corporation . During its development, some unused concepts for Counter-Strike: Global Offensive are reused in CSO2. For example, the character customation concept appeared in the early stage of the development of the CS:GO, and this feature is absorbed into the Counter-Strike Online 2.
Some of the models and maps are reused from Counter-Strike: Source and Half-Life 2 .
Counter-Strike Online 2 's engine has been ported to Source of a newer version in Summer 2017 along with the addition of a new UI, and Counter-Strike Online 2 was released in Japan at that time. However, for its poor operation, all of its servers were forced to shut down in 2018.
The game is implemented with lots of game modes based upon some popular community mods, and Nexon makes them as its official modes with more features.
Counter-Strike Nexon (CSN) , formerly known as Counter-Strike Nexon: Studio (CSN:S), and even earlier as Counter-Strike Nexon: Zombies (CSN:Z), is a multiplayer first person shooter game developed by NEXON Corporation . It was officially released for the public in Steam on October 7th, 2014 [1] .
The content of Counter-Strike Nexon is very similar to Counter-Strike Online . It is released in the western countries, unlike Counter-Strike Online , which is exclusive to Asian countries. Since its renaming to Studio , the game also features a level editor that can be used to create custom multiplayer maps with limited assets.
The game modes in CSN:S includes the classic bomb defusal , hostage rescue and assassination as well as new zombie modes which can are divided into 5 categories.
The game includes the original maps from Counter-Strike and Condition Zero with bot support. There are over 50 maps available in CSN:S to support the released game modes.
Original weapons from Counter-Strike are available for free to all users in Counter-Strike Nexon . Many new weapons are added into the game overtime and can be obtained via Decoders or special events.
Up to current update (as of when?), this game has a total of 598 weapons.
The GoldSrc engine (also known as Goldsource ) is a heavily modified version of the QuakeWorld engine codebase, which in turn is a development of the Quake engine's codebase. Some minor fixes from the Quake II engine were incorporated as it was developed.
Originally, GoldSrc's netcode, the coding that handles online multiplayer, was similar to the one in the QuakeWorld engine. However, in 2001, Valve implanted a new netcode that was designed to make it easier for players with high ping to play well via "lag compensation".
During the early development of Half-Life 2 , an experimental engine known now as Source was made, debuting with Counter-Strike: Source and Half-Life 2 in 2004.
The engine has been officially abandoned in favor of the Source engine (except for minor maintenance updates) although the GoldSrc engine is still used by third party developers, mainly for mods.
Source 2 is the successor to the Source engine developed by Valve Corporation .
The Source 2 engine debuted in 2015 with Dota 2.
Valve Corporation , previously known as Valve Software , or simply Valve (stylized VALV E ), is a video game development and digital distribution company founded by Gabe Newell and Mike Harrington . It's mostly known for creating the Half-Life series , along with several other popular titles and the Steam digital distribution platform. During the beta phase of Counter-Strike , Valve teamed up with Minh Le and Jess Cliffe and eventually helped them create a stand-alone game.
Hidden Path Entertainment is a video game development company. It was founded in 2006 by Michael Austin, Jim Garbarini, Dave McCoy, Jeff Pobst, and Mark Terrano.
The company worked on Counter-Strike: Global Offensive from August 2009 until its official release in August 2012. [1] [2]
“ The Glock 18 is a serviceable first-round pistol that works best against unarmored opponents and is capable of firing three-round bursts. ” ―Official description
The Glock-18 , or 9×19mm Sidearm as it was previously known, is one of the pistols featured in the Counter-Strike series . It makes an appearance as the spawn pistol for the Terrorists in every game.
The Glock 18 is a selective-fire variant of the Glock 17 , developed at the request of the Austrian Counter-Terrorist unit EKO Cobra . This machine pistol has a lever-type fire-control selector switch, installed on the serrated portion of the rear left side of the slide. With the selector lever in the bottom position, the pistol will fire fully automatic and, with the selector lever in the top position, the pistol will fire semi-automatically. Because of its design as a machine pistol, in real life, it is exclusively used by counter-terrorism operatives and is not available to the general public in most countries.
In-game, the Glock-18 is the spawn pistol for the Terrorist team. A T player will receive a Glock at the start of a round if it is the first round in a half, they died in the last round, or if they ended the last round without a sidearm.
If players wish, they may also purchase one from the buy menu. It is available to both teams' buy menu in earlier games and in Global Offensive before the January 23, 2013 update, but has since been restricted to the Terrorists' buy menu only. It is one of the cheapest firearms in the Counter-Strike series, costing only $200 in Global Offensive (the others being the P2000 and USP-S ) and $400 in the previous games.
Unlike the real Glock-18, the in-game portrayal of the Glock-18 features a selector switch and a burst -fire mode in place of the automatic mode. It is one of two weapons in Counter-Strike with a burst mode, the other being the FAMAS . The player spawns with the pistol in semi-automatic mode, and can switch to the burst mode with the alternate fire key, and can switch back to semi-automatic fire by using the alternate fire key again. In Global Offensive , switching the fire mode makes a distinctive "click" noise audible to all players.
Burst-fire offers a much higher rate of fire, allowing for a higher burst damage, at the cost of longer delays in between bursts and less controllable recoil and inaccuracy. In CS2 and Source, the burst-fire has a 0.4 second delay between each consecutive burst whereas in Counter-Strike it has 0.48 second delay. It is recommended to use semi-automatic mode for medium to long ranges and burst mode for short-range.
Compared to other pistols, the Glock-18 has inferior firepower and poor armor penetration in GoldSrc games. Don't be fooled by the fact that it doesn't have any visual recoil, it has innacuracy from firing on GoldSrc games. It is common for the Glock to be discarded in favor of better pistols. Despite its massive flaws, its advantages are its magazine size (20 rounds, second largest for pistols only losing to Dual Berettas ), low recoil, high rate of fire, and good accuracy in all games. As a pistol, it is also lightweight and has a short reload time. These advantages come to light in pistol rounds, where players need to conserve money and many players go without armor, helmet, and more advanced weapons. The Glock's high rate of fire and burst mode makes it effective for rushing and thus is a good counterbalance for the CTs' accuracy oriented spawn pistols ( USP / USP-S / P2000 ). The Glock appears to be effective at close range against unarmored opponents.
Alongside with the FAMAS, bots will never use the burst-fire of the Glock, preferring the semi-automatic mode instead.
Even if the player has set the Glock to fire in burst-mode, it can only fire semi-automatically when combined with the tactical shield .
If equipped with the K&M Sub-Machine Gun or Schmidt Machine Pistol , the Glock will share an ammo pool of 120 rounds with them. This is because all three weapons use 9mm Parabellum ammunition, but ammo is shared only in GoldSrc Counter-Strike games. In Counter-Strike: Source and Counter-Strike: Global Offensive , all types of ammo sharing had been removed.
In Counter-Strike: Condition Zero Deleted Scenes , the 9×19mm Sidearm is used by Terrorists in every level in the game except for Counter Terrorist Training , Hankagai , and Miami Heat . Terrorists that use the pistol may be grenadiers, throwing HE Grenades and Flashbangs .
This weapon is accessible in the following missions:
In the map Motel . A functioning Glock can be found in the middle of the map behind a white van with a dead Phoenix Connexion member.
The 9×19mm Sidearm can also be seen behind the weapons counter in Counter Terrorist Training.
“ A fan favorite from Counter-Strike: Source , the Silenced USP Pistol has a detachable silencer that gives shots less recoil while suppressing attention-getting noise. ” ―Official description
The USP-S is one of the Counter-Terrorist starting pistol choices featured in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 . It was added into the game on the August 14, 2013 Arms Deal update and is a successor of the K&M .45 Tactical from previous Counter-Strike games .
The USP ( U niversale S elbstlade p istole or " u niversal s elf-loading p istol") is a semi-automatic pistol developed in Germany by Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf am Neckar as a replacement for the P7 series of handguns. In Counter-Strike: Global Offensive , like its predecessor, the USP pistol is the USP Tactical variant of the default USP. The -S represents the silencer .
The pistol is an alternative option to the P2000 , making it one of the Counter-Terrorists 's spawn pistols. If equipped in the inventory menu before the match, a CT player will receive an USP-S at the start of a round if any of the following happen: it is the first round in a half; they died in the last round; or if they ended the last round without a sidearm (eg dropped it). If Counter Terrorist players drop the pistol at the start of a round, they may also repurchase one from the buy menu for $200.
The USP-S was released in the Arms Deal update that brought the M4A1-S , which also features a suppressor . Both weapons are reintroductions of weapons from previous Counter-Strike games which were removed at the start of Global Offensive . In this case, the USP-S is a counterpart to the original P2000.
The USP-S has a silencer which is equipped by default when receiving the weapon, although using the secondary fire key players can detach and reattach it at will. The silencer is best kept on because removing it increases recoil and decreases accuracy, making it overall less effective than the non-silenced choice, the P2000. One reason to remove the silencer is that it noticeably decreases the length of the weapon, which may make stealth around corners slightly easier.
With the silencer on, the USP-S has high accuracy and moderate recoil. It also has a high running accuracy, but low magazine capacity and reserve ammunition capacity, and a low rate of fire. Its damage is respectable but its armor penetration is low, making it good for long-range pistol round combat but less than ideal for later rounds.
The max audible distance of silenced firing sound the USP-S is 800 units [1] .
Holstered USP-S with suppressor clipping through trousers
The K&M .45 Tactical , more commonly known as the USP , is one of the pistols featured in Counter-Strike , Xbox Counter-Strike , Counter-Strike: Condition Zero , and Counter-Strike: Source .
Before being replaced by the P2000 in Global Offensive , the USP was the default spawn pistol for the Counter-Terrorists in the series. However, a successor of the USP was added in the Arms Deal update for Global Offensive as the USP-S , taking up the same slot as its replacement.
The USP ( U niversale S elbstlade p istole or " u niversal s elf-loading p istol") is a semi-automatic pistol developed in Germany by Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf am Neckar as a replacement for the P7 series of handguns. In the Counter-Strike series , the USP pistol is the USP Tactical, a variant of the default USP, and it is capable in firing 9mm Parabellum, .40 S&W, and .45 ACP rounds.
In-game, the USP is the spawn pistol for the Counter-Terrorist team, but is also available for purchase by both teams. A CT player will receive an USP at the start of a round if it is the first round in a half, they died in the last round, or if they ended the last round without a sidearm. If players wish, they may also purchase one from the buy menu for $500, which is not team-locked, making the USP the only silenced weapon that can be purchased by the Terrorists.
The USP is a popular weapon due to its power, often being kept during the pistol round and sometimes for many rounds after. A single headshot from the USP can kill an unarmored opponent, and the weapon has a very good accuracy to back up its damage.
It is the only pistol that can be equipped with a silencer . The silencer is not attached when receiving the weapon, and can be manually attached (and detached) with the secondary-fire feature (Right Mouse button by default). With the silencer, the USP is much quieter when firing, but deals less damage (though still enough to make a one-hit headshot kill) and has lower accuracy, two thirds of the unsilenced state to be exact.
The magazine size is relatively small, and the reload time is considerably longer. The vertical recoil when fired rapidly is quite strong, making the pistol more focused on tapfiring accurately than spraying rapidly.
If equipped at the same time with the MAC-10 or KM UMP45 , the USP will share an ammo pool of 100 rounds with them as they all share the same cartridge, only in GoldSrc Counter-Strike games.
The USP is unable to attach its silencer if combined with the Tactical Shield , as the Tactical Shield's alternate fire overrides the USP's alternate fire. It applies the same for the Glock-18 and its burst-fire mode.
The USP is the only firearm the VIP can use in Assassination . He is limited to 12 rounds in reserve and cannot purchase additional ammunition.
Bots in Source will randomly attach the silencer, making them quite unpredictable on their approach with the weapon in question.
The K&M .45 Tactical in the Deleted Scenes deals slightly less damage than its multiplayer version. Additionally, the silencer it can equip has become virtually worthless as enemies can detect you regardless of whether it is equipped and it reduces damage even further. The weapon appears in the following missions:
The K&M Tactical .45 is used by grenadier Counter-Terrorist NPCs, one appearing in Building Recon , who throw HE Grenades at enemies. NPCs that wield the pistol can also be seen in Secret War , Motorcade Assault , Downed Pilot , Fastline, and Pipe Dream , only actually used by NPCs in Motorcade Assault and Fastline.
“ Accurate and controllable, the German-made P2000 is a serviceable first-round pistol that works best against unarmored opponents. ” ―Official description
The P2000 is one of the Counter-Terrorist starting pistol choices in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 . Along with the USP-S , it replaced the K&M .45 Tactical spawn pistol featured in earlier games.
The P2000 It was developed by Germany-based Heckler and Koch, designed for law enforcement and paramilitary services, and it is chambered in calibers like 9mm, .357 SIG, and .40S&W. The P2000 in-game is modeled after the 9mm standard model.
Like the K&M .45 Tactical or USP from previous games, the P2000 is designed to be the Counter-Terrorists ' starting handgun . However, unlike the .45 Tactical, it does not feature a silencer and Terrorists cannot purchase the P2000—they can only obtain one from dead CTs. The USP-S is an alternative option for the same buy menu slot.
If equipped, a CT player will receive a P2000 at the start of a round if it is the first round in a half, they died in the last round, or if they ended the last round without a sidearm. If players wish, they may also purchase one from the buy menu for $200.
Compared to the Glock-18 , the Terrorists' spawn pistol, the P2000 deals higher damage and is more accurate, but has a lower ammo capacity, higher recoil, and slower rate of fire, giving it a more long-range tapshooting playstyle instead of the Glock's rushing playstyle.
Compared to the USP-S , the P2000 has more ammo and less recoil but is less accurate, making the USP-S even more of an accuracy-focused pistol. In general, the P2000 serves as a serviceable pistol-round weapon and a sidearm, but isn't ideal for eco rounds due to its low damage against armored opponents.
“ Firing two large-mag Berettas at once will lower accuracy and increase load times. On the bright side, you'll get to fire two large-mag Berettas at once. ” ―Official description
The Dual Berettas , or .40 Dual Elites , as they were previously known, are a pair of pistols featured in the Counter-Strike series , exclusive to Terrorists before Global Offensive but available to both teams in Global Offensive . The counterpart for the Counter-Terrorists before Global Offensive is the Five-seveN .
The Beretta 92 is a series of 9x19mm semi-automatic pistols manufactured by Beretta of Italy, with the 92FS variant adopted by the US Military under the name Beretta M9. The .40 Dual Elites Counter-Strike , Condition Zero , and Source were Beretta 92G Elite II pistols, and the name also indicates that they are partially based on the Beretta 96 series, which uses .40 S&W. The Dual Berettas in Global Offensive are Beretta M9A1 pistols in inox steel and with wooden grip panels. [1] [2] [3] [4]
In-game, the Dual Berettas are moderately powerful semi-automatic pistols (always dual-wielded in pairs, one in each hand) that were originally available only to the Terrorists , but available for both factions since Global Offensive . In Global Offensive , they cost a cheaper $300 as opposed to $800 from the previous Counter-Strike games, which made them the most expensive pistol in these games.
The Dual Berettas have a high rate of fire and large magazine size and reserve ammunition capacity. They are coded to use 9x19mm despite their name. Their damage isn't very high, but slightly better than the spawn pistols, usually requiring 1 less shot to kill for bodyshots. This, combined with their light weight and low recoil and spread in Global Offensive , makes them effective for spraying and shooting on the move. They are most effective in Source , where their damage is higher.
What keeps them from being competitive is their low accuracy and high damage dropoff, which limits their engagement range to short range. They also have a long reload time to balance out their magazine capacity.
Bots in Global Offensive will rarely/sometimes buy them. However, the Dual Berettas are fairly common among bots in Source , especially if they are restricted to use pistols only. Terrorist bots in older games sometimes uses the Dual Berettas if they are restricted in wielding other weapons. In Condition Zero , expert bots will always spray bullets and aim for the head. If recoil increases, they may aim above the target instead of below. As a result, their accuracy is limited to the first or second bullet.
These are the only pistols that cannot be used with the Tactical Shield , as 2 pistols require 2 hands to properly wield.
In earlier games, if equipped at the same time as the KM Sub-Machine Gun or Schmidt Machine Pistol , the Dual Elites will share the same ammo pool of 120 rounds due to sharing the same cartridge.
December 11, 2006 ( Counter-Strike: Source )
In Tour of Duty , the Terrorist bot Lunatic 's weapon preferences are the .40 Dual Elites and Maverick M4A1 Carbine . He is the only Terrorist bot to have any secondary weapon preferences.
The .40 Dual Elites are an "easter egg" weapon in the Deleted Scenes , appearing in few missions and in hard-to-find locations. Additionally, the Elites have less accuracy in the Deleted Scenes than in the multiplayer games.
They can be found in the following missions:
Weapon Specialist
Combat Skills
“ A low-recoil firearm with a high rate of fire, the P250 is a relatively inexpensive choice against armored opponents. ” ―Official description
The P250 is a semi-automatic pistol featured in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 .
The SIG Sauer P250 is a semi-automatic pistol manufactured by SIG Sauer of New Hampshire, designed with a modular format in mind. First introduced to the market in 2007, it is not widely distributed as orders for the pistol were cancelled in some countries. The in-game weapon is modeled after an early model P250 Compact variant.
In-game, the P250 is priced at $300, holding 13 rounds per magazine and 26 rounds in reserve. The weapon is quite controllable (though slightly harder than the spawn pistols). It has a higher base damage against unarmored targets, and it has lower damage dropoff than the Glock-18 , which allows it to land one-hit headshot kills against unarmored opponents at longer ranges, though like the spawn pistols it cannot one headshot kill helmeted enemies, [2] which was originally one of its features prior to 2017. While this may be the case, its first shot accuracy however is worse than the spawn pistols which may work to hinder it at these longer ranges. As well as that, it technically has more armor penetration than the spawn pistols, although not nearly to the same degree as the 90%+ penetration of the Five-SeveN , Tec-9 , or Desert Eagle .
The weapon's cheap price and higher damage makes it viable as a "pistol upgrade" in pistol rounds, where some extra damage against weakly armored or unarmored opponents is useful. However, it no longer serves its old role of defeating armored opponents in eco rounds. [2] The cheapest weapons to do so (land a headshot on a helmeted enemy) are now the $500 advanced pistols for each team .
“ Highly accurate and armor-piercing, the pricy Five-Seven is a slow-loader that compensates with a generous 20-round magazine and forgiving recoil. ” ―Official description
The Five-SeveN , FN Five-seven or ES Five-seven as it was previously known, is one of the pistols featured in the Counter-Strike series .
The FN Five-SeveN is a Belgian semi-automatic pistol made by FN Herstal. The Five-SeveN featured in early Counter-Strike games is based off the original model of the Five-SeveN, while the Global Offensive version is based off the USG variant.
The weapon is only available to the Counter-Terrorists and has been that way for most of its history. However at the release of Global Offensive , it was originally available to both Counter-Terrorists and Terrorists until the January 23, 2013 update restricted them to CTs again.
Its advantages are a high rate of fire, good accuracy, and its large magazine size. Despite these facts, in Counter-Strike and Counter-Strike: Source the Five-SeveN is one of the least popular pistols due to its low damage, higher price – one of the most expensive pistols just behind .40 Dual Elites , and long reload time. But within Counter-Strike: Global Offensive it gained popularity thanks to a better price (equivalent to the Terrorist Tec-9 ), as well as the fact that it does much more damage, and has a faster reload time. Its main drawback compared to other pistols is still its price, which restricts it to being a situational purchase.
In earlier games, if the Five-SeveN and P90 are both equipped at once, they will draw from one pool of 100 rounds due to sharing cartridges. In Global Offensive , all types of ammo sharing had been removed, though the Five-SeveN originally incorrectly had ammo sharing, it has since been rectified in an April 28, 2015 update.
The ES Five-seven in Deleted Scenes has slightly more power and accuracy compared to its multiplayer version. It appears in the player's loadout at the beginning of the following missions:
“ An ideal pistol for the Terrorist on the move, the Tec-9 is lethal in close quarters and features a high magazine capacity. ” ―Official description
The Tec-9 is a semi-automatic pistol featured in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 , exclusive to the Terrorists . The counterpart for the Counter-Terrorists is the Five-SeveN .
The Tec-9 is a Swedish-made semi-automatic pistol manufactured by Intratec. It gained notoriety in the 80's and 90's for being easy to modify and convert into full-auto due to its open-bolt system, leading these modified versions to be the main weapon used in shootings and crime. Therefore, it was listed as one of the weapons in the 1994 Federal Assault Weapons Ban.
In-game, the weapon is semi-automatic and has an 18 round capacity. The recoil is a bit wild when spraying bullets but usually accurate enough when tapfired when not moving. It has excellent penetration power and damage (it can kill a player even when wearing a helmet with one shot to the head ), as well as a decent magazine capacity, average reload time, and a faster rate of fire compared to other pistols in the PC version (it has a low rate of fire on the Console versions of CS:GO).
Its disadvantages are its high recoil which discourages rapid firing, Overall, it is one of the more favorable pistols used during the pistol and eco rounds.
“ A fully automatic variant of the CZ75, the CZ75-Auto is another inexpensive choice against armored opponents. But with very little ammo provided, strong trigger discipline is required. ” ―Official description
The CZ75-Auto is the full-auto pistol featured in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 . It was released on February 12, 2014 , alongside Weapon Case 3 , with its first skins being featured in that case.
The CZ75 is made by Česká zbrojovka Uherský Brod (CZUB) in the Czech Republic. First introduced in 1975, it is one of the original "wonder nines" featuring a staggered-column magazine, all-steel construction, and a hammer-forged barrel. It has a good reputation amongst pistol shooters for quality and versatility at a reasonable price. The CZ75 used in Global Offensive is the CZ 75 Automatic, a selective-fire version of the CZ 75B variant only for sale to police and military units. The variant includes a muzzle compensator and the ability to mount a spare magazine in front of the trigger guard for use as a foregrip.
In Global Offensive, the CZ75-Automatic is an alternative option for the Five-SeveN for Counter-Terrorists and Tec-9 for Terrorists . It can be selected to replace either pistol on the buy menu in the player's inventory as long as the player is not in an active Competitive game.
It holds 12 rounds per magazine and has one spare magazine worth of ammo (12 rounds) in reserve. It is relatively cheap at $500, and awards $300 in Competitive and $150 in Casual per kill. It is the only fully-automatic pistol in the game.
Compensating for its high close-range damage is its very significant uncontrollability. It has a very strong recoil, which is exacerbated by its full-auto fire. Its first shot accuracy is the lowest out of all pistols, which, combined with its moderately strong damage dropoff, makes it unsuitable for mid to long-range combat.
Its reload time is slightly longer than other pistols. It has the unique attribute of a significantly longer draw animation, where the player character attaches a magazine onto the front of gun before racking the slide and readying the weapon. This is implemented to make it less effective as a sidearm option.
“ As expensive as it is powerful, the Desert Eagle is an iconic pistol that is difficult to master but surprisingly accurate at long range. ” ―Official description
The Desert Eagle , or Night Hawk .50C , as it was previously known, is one of the pistols featured in the Counter-Strike series . It can be replaced with the R8 Revolver in Global Offensive .
The IMI Desert Eagle is a large semi-automatic pistol chambering the powerful .50 Action Express round, one of the most powerful pistol cartridges in production. It was designed by Magnum Research Inc. of the United States. While not practical for military use due to its size and recoil, its large, powerful appearance made it a popular choice for movies and games.
In-game, the Desert Eagle is a powerful semi-automatic pistol available to both teams. It is loaded with 7 rounds of .50 Action Express which makes it able to inflict high amounts of damage. It costs $650 in earlier games and $700 in Global Offensive .
The Desert Eagle is one of the more popular sidearms in the Counter-Strike games, its appeal mainly coming from its high power. Until Global Offensive , this pistol was the only pistol capable of killing an opponent with one headshot regardless of armor and helmet. In Global Offensive , while other pistols can also achieve this feat, the Desert Eagle has far better range than most of them, with high base damage that can compensate for damage dropoff at range and a far better standing accuracy than most other pistols. In Global Offensive , the Desert Eagle is also the only weapon in the pistol class with high penetration.
The Desert Eagle's main disadvantages come from its small magazine size, lower rate of fire, high recoil when fired repeatedly, low movement speed when wielding the weapon (it is the second heaviest pistol in Global Offensive , only beaten by R8 Revolver ), and price (it is the most expensive pistol in Global Offensive , but is beaten out by the Five-SeveN and Dual Berettas in earlier games). Damage dropoff is also quite strong, though not as noticeable due to its high base damage. Its firing sound is loud and distinctive, meaning that it can give the player's position away easily.
The Night Hawk .50C can be used in the following missions in Deleted Scenes :
The Night Hawk .50C can also be seen behind the weapons counter in Counter Terrorist Training .
“ The R8 Revolver delivers a highly accurate and powerful round at the expense of a lengthy trigger-pull. Firing rapidly by fanning the hammer may be the best option when point-blank stopping power is required. ” ―Official description
The R8 Revolver is an 8 shot revolver featured in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 . It was introduced as part of the 2015 Winter Update . In Global Offensive, it can be switched out for the Desert Eagle .
The R8 Revolver, known in real life as the Smith & Wesson Model 327 Performance Center M&P R8, is the third pistol to be introduced to Global Offensive since the game's retail release.
The revolver has a very low capacity, holding 8 rounds per cylinder and only two cylinder worth of ammo (16 rounds) in reserve for CS2 whereas it's only one cylinder of reserve ammo in Global Offensive. It is currently the heaviest handgun available, even heavier than many primary weapons. The revolver deals extremely high damage, able to instantly kill with a headshot to a very long range and regardless of armor due to its low damage dropoff and high armor penetration. It can also kill enemies without armor in one shot to the abdomen and pelvis region. Surface penetration is on the same high level as the Desert Eagle at 200, better than average pistols.
Uniquely, the Revolver has two separate attack modes, used with the primary and secondary attack keys respectively: the primary attack draws the hammer back before firing. As the hammer is drawn back, the accuracy of the revolver increases, movement speed drops to 180 units per second and then the gun fires after a 0.2 second delay (the hammer cocking back is also audible to anyone close enough to hear it, thus risking giving away the user's position). If the player releases the primary attack key during these 0.2 seconds, the hammer will return and the weapon will not fire. This firing mode reduces its overall rate of fire.
The secondary attack is a quick shot using the fanning technique, resulting in a much faster but far less accurate shot. This firing technique has no firing delay, increasing the firing rate to a more respectable 150 RPM, but the accurate range drops down to around 2 m, making it more suitable for close-range combat. This mode is also functionally automatic, as the player character will repeatedly fan and fire the weapon if the player holds down the secondary fire key.
In comparison to the Desert Eagle, this weapon deals more damage and is capable in killing a full health unarmored player at close range in one shot if it hits an opponent's abdomen and pelvis hitbox. In addition, the R8 does much more damage through walls, able to one-hit kill to the head through them, which the Desert Eagle does not always do. The R8 is also $100 cheaper than Desert Eagle (but still quite expensive for a pistol round). The primary fire is more accurate when running and can fire one shot more before reloading compared to the Desert Eagle. On the downside, primary fire is much slower, requires to lower the hammer before able to fire a shot, the movement speed is lowered to 180 (220 when not firing which is still slower than the Desert Eagle), and has much lower ammo in reserve which forces the player to fire sparingly. The rate of fire in secondary mode is still lower than the Desert Eagle.
This weapon was not available in Competitive Matchmaking mode after the March 24, 2017 update but it was added back to Competitive matchmaking, along with the Negev following the April 12, 2017 update.
“ The Nova's rock-bottom price tag makes it a great ambush weapon for a cash-strapped team. ” ―Official description
The Nova is a pump-action shotgun that appears in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive & Counter-Strike 2 . It replaces the Leone 12 Gauge Super from early Counter-Strike games.
The Benelli Nova is an Italian shotgun. In-game, it holds 8 rounds of 12 gauge shotgun shells. It can be purchased by both the Counter-Terrorists and the Terrorists .
As the cheapest shotgun option, it has low power but is a good economic investment due to having high kill rewards. It has a slow rate of fire due to the pump-action, even slightly lower compared to the Sawed-Off and MAG-7 68 RPM vs. 71 RPM.
At extreme close range, the shotgun can kill in one shot to any body part if all pellets hit. However, the shotgun has the lowest armor penetration out of all shotguns, meaning that more shots need to land in order to instantly kill armored enemies compared to other shotguns. This reduces its effectiveness significantly against armored opponents, but it compensates somewhat with the lowest pellet spread compared to the other shotguns, allowing for more kill potential at range.
