November 28, 1997 April 27, 1999
December 14, 1997 August 27, 1998
October 28, 1999
Tarantula Studios Dev Team (Easter Egg; Game Boy Color version)
Grand Theft Auto , also referred to as Grand Theft Auto 1 in order to differentiate between the original game and the series' individual titles , is the first game in the Grand Theft Auto series, developed by DMA Design and published by BMG Interactive . The game was originally released on November 28, 1997 , [ 1 ] for PC and December 14, 1997, for PlayStation . A Game Boy Color port developed by Tarantula Studios released on November 22, 1999 . It is also one of the 20 preloaded games on the PlayStation Classic console, released in December 2018 .
Grand Theft Auto: London 1969 was made as an expansion pack for GTA , and Grand Theft Auto: London 1961 was in turn an expansion pack for London 1969 . Both of these games require the original GTA disc to work.
The game is set in 1997 in three American cities: Liberty City (including its neighbouring state of New Guernsey as part of the same map), San Andreas , and Vice City . The player chooses the role of one of a group of eight silent criminals , four males and four females, looking to work their way up the career ladder of the cities' organized crime.
The project was originally named as Race'n'Chase .
The story revolves around a silent criminal hired by the Liberty City -based Vercotti Crime Family to assist in their various crimes , as a hired goon and as a getaway driver for bank jobs. Later, they help take down the New Guernsey -based Sonetti Crime Family 's crime operation.
Eventually, after attaining too much attention from the cops, Bubby books the protagonist a flight to San Andreas , where they are hired by a Chinese crime syndicate led by Uncle Fu , and the protagonist helps them in expanding their crime businesses throughout the city. They are later introduced to the Mexican gangster El Burro , helping him and his gang in several criminal activities and killing suspected traitors of the gang.
They later decide to move to Vice City , where they are blackmailed by the corrupt Vice Squad officer Samuel Deever to do his dirty work, claiming he's got evidence of all of the protagonist's previous crimes that would put them in jail for life. They are forced to help Deever start a war against the Brotherhood of Jah Army of Love (also known as the Rastas), a Jamaican gang who have been waging a campaign of terror for over 7 years. The gang's leader Brother Marcus eventually convinces them to join forces with the Rastas by giving them a lot of protection against Deever and his squad.
After doing several jobs for Brother Marcus and helping his gang, Brother Marcus calls the protagonist one last time, asking them to meet him to collect their retirement pay , implying the end of the protagonist's career as a criminal.
The original Grand Theft Auto is made up of a series of levels each set in one of the three cities in the game. In each level, the player has a target number of points to achieve, and five lives to attain the score.
The score counter doubles as a money meter; the player can spend this money on paint jobs and various other things. However, any money spent is of course taken away from the score, making the goal that little bit further away.
On obtaining the target number of points, the player must then drive to a certain location to complete
A collision at an intersection.
the level, which allows progress to the next one.
Apart from that, the player is free to do whatever they want. The player can just explore the city, cause death and destruction, or steal and sell cars for profit, although completing a level will almost certainly require the completion of missions. Even in missions there is still some freedom, as usually the player is free to choose the route to take, although the destination is usually fixed. This level of freedom was not found in most action-based computer games at the time. Be mindful that free roam has its limits (unlike Grand Theft Auto III and its successors), most notable having a limited number of lives, as once the player loses lives by becoming repeatedly killed , they will be redirected to the results. And unlike the later games in the series, the player can be killed in one hit unless they are wearing body armor (though it only protects them from bullet fire).
Walking in Vice City, PC version
There are some burps and farts too, as specials, but have no effect on any enemy and pedestrians.
There are various ways in which to earn the points needed to complete each level.
Some points can be earned by committing various crimes, such as ramming cars (10 points each), and killing police (1000 each). The more serious the crime, the more points, but also the more the police will pay attention to the player. Another way to make money is to steal cars, and sell them at the many docks around each city, usually earning several thousand points.
These activities can give the player quite a number of points but they are not sufficient to earn the millions of points needed to complete each level (unless the player has a lot of patience), so it is necessary to take on missions to complete a level. On successful completion of a mission, the player gets 'paid', a large amount of points. A typical payment is in the region of 50,000 points.
Also after completing a mission, the score multiplier is increased by one. The score multiplier is multiplied by the normal score for something, to get the points actually awarded. For example, a multiplier of three will mean that the player gets three time the regular amount of points, so 30 points for ramming a car, rather than the normal 10 points. This applies for anything points are awarded for, including the payment for completing a mission.
In the Gameboy port, score multipliers are handled differently. The player can collect floating "X"'s hidden in each city, that automatically add a multiplier to the score counter. The first time one is picked up it says "×2", the second time it says "×3", and so on. This only affects points gained after acquiring the multiplier, not the points the player already has, so it is in the player's best interests to seek the "X"'s as soon as possible. Multiplier does not disappear if the player is arrested in this port.
The three cities in which the game is set are modeled after certain cities, in terms of landscape and style. They are Liberty City ( New York City ) including its neighboring State of New Guernsey ( New Jersey ), San Andreas ( San Francisco ), and Vice City ( Miami ).
Those three cities later became the settings for the 3D era games and HD era games . In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , San Andreas is expanded from a city to an American state , which contains three major cities of its own: Los Santos (Los Angeles), San Fierro (San Francisco), and Las Venturas (Las Vegas). The state of New Guernsey later became the State of Alderney in Grand Theft Auto IV .
In most cases, missions are started by answering telephones, although some missions are allocated on the spot, or are triggered by entering certain vehicles. Once a phone is touched, the player is stuck doing that mission until they pass or fail it, but with the cars it is different. The player is told "I've got a new job for you, if you want it. Otherwise get the hell out of my car." They then have a few seconds to jump out before that mission begins.
The payphones all stop ringing while a player is on a phone mission, but the car missions are still available. By accepting a car mission the player can override a phone mission (failing it but without a failure notice) and do that mission instead, but a phone mission cannot override a car mission as the phones stop ringing.
At the start of each mission, the player will be given a series of instructions they must follow. The instructions are given in stages, so the objectives can change in a given situation.
Many of the missions involve tasks that can be completed at the player's own pace, so the player can take a leisurely pace, and observe the traffic laws, although there is always a temptation to cut corners. However, sometimes the game imposes time limits on mission completion, or there may be people giving chase, such as enemy gangsters, or the police , forcing the player to cut corners, to get to the destination on time and/or evade the pursuers. This means running red lights, driving on the sidewalk (risking running over pedestrians), and finding shortcuts.
Law enforcement in GTA is generally characterized as an obstacle in the game, appearing in the force of police officers who are ready to pursue, arrest, and kill the player if they have committed sufficient criminal acts. The player's wanted level is defined by the number of police heads seen on top of the screen. The more crime the player commits, the more determined the police will be to subdue them. The player can have up to four police heads, which at this point leads to very hostile officers.
There are only two ways to eliminate the player's wanted level: by either driving their vehicle to a spray shop , or picking up a " cop bribe " pickup in certain parts of each city.
Despite its age, GTA even included a multiplayer function, which allowed players to battle with human opponents. This was possible over either a LAN connection or using a null modem cable.
The original Grand Theft Auto was first available for DOS , and then later ported to Microsoft Windows , PlayStation , and Game Boy Color . A Sega Saturn version was also planned, but canceled early, and there are rumors that Grand Theft Auto 64 was also a port for GTA .
"Hot Bitch Teaser" (setup tile) was the first free demonstration for the game, and can be downloaded on the official Rockstar's website for GTA . There are three versions for different software: one with 3DFX compatibility, one with 8-bit compatibility, and one with 24-bit compatibility. The 8-bit has a simpler graphics set.
It is a demo for the game's first level, Gangsta Bang , featuring all the protagonists and the four phone missions from Bubby. However, there is no soundtrack or sound effects and the player is not able to play the four on the same playthrough because the demo is limited to 6 minutes of gameplay. After these 6 minutes, the game will automatically take the player to the score screen.
Oddly, if the player attempts to enter the secret vehicle missions, the game will display a different dialogue mocking the player for not being able to play those missions.
"ECTS Competition" (setup title) was the second demonstration for the game, available at an unknown time after "Hot Bitch Teaser" on Rockstar's website. Unlike the first demo, it has only 3DFX compatibility, making more difficult to emulate this demo on modern computers.
This demo features the sound effects and part of the soundtrack, and is an altered version of the mission Tequila Slammer - Phone 3: Mission 1 . The demo begins with the protagonist already in southeast Excalibur , a Machine Gun and an Armor in crates and a Speeder are provided nearby. Unlike the full game mission, where the player has to kill eight police officers, the demo has only five. The targets in southwest Marina , southeast Aye Valley , and east Woodside are removed, and after killing the last target at Sunview the demo ends. Each time the player kills one of the five cops a big letter message instead of dialogue is displayed stating the number of remaining targets, something absent on the retail versions.
The PlayStation version of the game is a very accurate recreation of the original DOS game. The soundtrack is still the same, but there are graphics downgrades: the three towns are now more colorful and less detailed. Two missions also have been removed due to hardware limitations: Gangsta Bang - Counthash and Heist Almighty - Itali . Both of these missions have the player entering a train, and because trains are absent in the PlayStation version, these missions have been removed.
Later, the PlayStation version received a port of the London 1969 expansion pack which shared the same graphic downgrade and requires the GTA CD to play. There is also stand-alone version (without the need for the GTA CD) of London 1969 for PlayStation, but it was only released in the UK.
This game was re-released in a pack in 2002 as part of the Grand Theft Auto: Collectors' Edition for the PlayStation and later in 2004 for PC.
Surprisingly, the Game Boy Color version was unabridged, which was quite a technical achievement due to the sheer size of the cities, converted tile-for-tile from the PC original, making them many times larger than most Game Boy Color game worlds were because of the handheld's limited hardware. It is also playable on the original Game Boy system, sacrificing only the color palette for playability. To cater for the target younger generation, however, the game was heavily censored, with gore and swearing removed. This Game Boy Color version also had an exclusive character named Kelly, who could be renamed Sumner, and activate a cheat code which unlocks 15 characters, based on the games' creator. Wanted Levels were represented by a trouble bar in the Game Boy Color.
But the GBC port still displays technical limitations. For example, Pedestrians rarely ever spawn on the streets, unless the Protagonist is driving a vehicle, and the Police have notoriously inferior AI that can result in cars spawning and being trapped behind a building before they even come close to the player's position. These make most combat outside of missions highly impractical, and evading the police is turned into a cakewalk, even at the highest wanted level.
The game also features a radically different soundtrack from the PC and PS1 versions, replacing all the songs that play on the radio and menus in those versions with 8-bit instrumental tracks composed by Anthony Paton.
The game features seven radio stations, all of which can be heard once the player enters a car, setting a feature that would become a mainstay in the game series. All the songs on this soundtrack are original creations produced by the DMA Design music department. All of the tracks were composed by Colin Anderson , Craig Conner , and Grant Middleton circa 1997.
On November 28, 2022 , during Grand Theft Auto 's 25th Anniversary, Colin Anderson uploaded definitive mixes of the tracks he wrote and recorded for the original game on his official YouTube channel, including "The Ballad Of Chapped Lips Calhoun", "Just Do It", "On The Move", "Aori", "Pootang Shebang", and "4 Letter Love".
Over 120 people are credited for the production and final release of Grand Theft Auto , including the series' co-founder and executive producer Sam Houser and producer Gary J. Foreman .
Through interviews with the early GTA developers and staff members, we know that during the development of the first game they had the general idea of pushing the boundaries of what a game could offer at the time, and that each member could bring up any ideas they could imagine to include in the game. [ 2 ] One of the first elements that was proposed was to let the game have different radios with different music genres, an idea that at first wasn't really accepted by all the staff and had some skeptics. [ 3 ] The general atmosphere of the company at the time needs to be understood, there was some friction between the members because the game had been stuck in "development hell" for years, [ 4 ] owing to the difficulties in coding and compiling so many complex features (the mix of driving, open-city exploration, and shooter genres in particular) [ 5 ] that were proposed and that, up until then, no game had featured in such a manner. [ 6 ] The staff was particularly worried that the public misunderstood the game as an "inferior 2D driving game in top-view" at a time that 3D-graphics racing-genre games were in full swing.
The staff had fantasized for a long time about getting the licenses to major hits and to have access to great catalogues of music, [ 7 ] something that wouldn't truly be realized until Grand Theft Auto: Vice City as the music industry didn't believe in videogames as a medium at the time. Thus, they had to produce original music with mock radio stations and fictional artists. The members had freedom to come up with different ideas and to produce them. Two members in particular were crucial for producing those early tracks: Colin Anderson (who dealt with rock, funk, and country tracks) and Craig Conner (who dealt with electronic, pop, and hip-hop tracks).
Conner, then an indie music producer who had recently been hired, was struggling to produce the hip hop tracks as he was more of an electronic music enthusiast and had never rapped, [ 8 ] so he teamed up with Johnny Wilson (who adopted the alias " Robert De Negro " ), which was "a tall, black guy who was a student of Chemistry at Dundee University" , in the words of early GTA developer David Jones . [ 9 ] The objective was clear: to make a hip hop song that synthesized all what a Grand Theft Auto game was about, and thus they created the song " Grand Theft Auto ". The track was so popular amongst the staff that it convinced them to definitely move on with having different radios, and the song itself became from then on the flag of intent into what a GTA song should be.
According to GTA artist Paul Reeves , he and several others working on DMA Design's other game, Body Harvest , suggested at the time that the original GTA game could be a 3rd person experience in a 3D world, similar to how Grand Theft Auto III would later end up. Unfortunately for the team at the time, this fell on deaf ears. [ 10 ]
Grand Theft Auto received mixed to average reviews, with mostly averaging 6s to 7s out of 10.
GameSpot awarded the PC version a 6.4/10 while the PS1 version received a more favorable 8/10. In their review they praised the unique soundtrack and the freedom of choice, while criticizing the graphics, calling it "a little plain".
Next Generation awarded the game with 4 stars out of 5; they stated in their review that "It is quite easy to accuse Grand Theft Auto of being all style and no substance, but the charge doesn't stick. Of course, we don't condone the acts within, but there is no denying that the game itself is well-executed and quite enjoyable."
GameRankings awarded the PC version with 79% and the PS1 version with 68%.
GameRevolution awarded the game with a B rating.
Computer and Video Games awarded the game with 7/10.
The UK PlayStation Official Magazine awarded the PS1 version with 7/10.
Electronic Gaming Monthly awarded the game with 6.5/10.
IGN awarded the game with a 6/10, saying in their review that GTA is a fun game but with some major problems that could've been fixed.
GamePro were the least favorable, awarding the game with 2 stars out of 5.
The Game Boy Color port of Grand Theft Auto has received less favorable reviews than the PC and PS1 versions.
GameRankings awarded the port with a 57% out of 100%.
Nintendo Power awarded the port with a slightly more favorable 6.2/10.
Grand Theft Auto went to sell over 1 million copies in 1998 and 3 million copies in its lifespan. And despite the mediocre reception, it was considered to be a commercial success.
The game, with its violent subject matter, generated a great deal of controversy. However, this was deemed to be intentional, and was the first game known to have been publicized in such a way. Take-Two Interactive , the publishers of Grand Theft Auto , hired publicist Max Clifford to generate an aura of controversy about the game in the local media. As a result, politicians stepped into the fray. Whatever the impact on game censorship and the perception of video gaming, the publicity worked - the title was hugely successful simply because those attempting to ban the game were inadvertently generating publicity for it. This has been a known and recognized phenomenon of violent video games ever since its release. The game was banned in Brazil and, temporarily, Britain for its content.
Keith Hamilton 's email confirming the release date.
October 22, 1999 1999
October 27, 1999 October 27, 1999 November 4, 1999 March 30, 2001
May 2, 2000 May 2, 2000
November 10, 2000 2000
Grand Theft Auto 2 , or GTA 2 , is the second major installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and the fourth game overall. It was released in North America on October 22, 1999 , by developer Rockstar North (then known as DMA Design), for the PC and PlayStation . A version for the Dreamcast console was made available, which included PC features omitted from the PlayStation version, and later a toned-down version for Game Boy Color .
Upon release, GTA 2 was met with mixed to average reaction, but was a commercial success compared to the previous title in the series .
On the side of some covers of the PlayStation version, the title is styled as 'GTa2'.
GTA 2 takes place in a large metropolis only vaguely referred to as Anywhere City . The city is heavily stylized in a retrofuturistic design, displaying a contrast between a vivid color palette and advanced science fiction weapons and postwar architecture and transportation. All civilian vehicles are retro-modified versions of popular cars and trucks built up until the 1960s, further reinforcing its retrofuturistic influences. The player controls Claude Speed , an uprising criminal in the districts of Anywhere who works both with and against the many criminal syndicates of the city.
The year the game is set in is extremely ambiguous. There are police records on the Grand Theft Auto 2 website showing the dates of July 7, 2013 , and July 10, 2013, including the criminal records of characters who are killed during the events of the game, indicating the game may be set around July 2013. However, Johnny Riccaro , an in-game radio host, mentions that the millennium's coming, and mentions the Y2K bug, suggesting that Grand Theft Auto 2 is set in 1999, the year it was released.
The weapons in the game are futuristic, and the website says "three weeks into the future," but as previously mentioned, all vehicles are distinctively old world. According to the official GTA 2 Design Document shared by the DMA Design programmer Mike Dailly in 2022, it is said that the game will be set slightly in the future (referencing Max Headroom 's infamous " 20 Minutes into the Future " quote) to give more artistic freedom and scope for features.
However, it is more likely that the game takes place in an unspecific year/time (anywhere from 1999–2013), fitting with the game's setting of "Anywhere City, USA".
Anywhere City is divided into three sectors: Downtown , Residential , and Industrial . In each of them are three gangs, whose bosses give the player missions via payphones. Each district also has a maximum wanted level that the player can acquire, likely to make later levels more difficult:
To save the game, the player needs to find the Jesus Saves church. It can only be found by listening out for the organ playing or by hijacking a TV Van (the antenna on top always points towards it). Once at the church, the player needs to pay $ 50,000 to save, so it's best not to save until turning off the game; however, completing two to three missions will easily reward the player with enough money.
The Game Boy Color version lacks a proper save feature, instead utilizing a password system. The password is given to the player when a mission is accomplished and entered from the main menu .
Each of the three gangs within the three districts has a gang with whom they are neutral, and a gang with whom they war. The player will earn respect by killing other "enemy" gang members, but naturally will lose respect with the gang that they attack – a gang with considerably low respect will attack the player if they enter their territory. In the Downtown District, the gangsters wield only pistols , but in other districts, their weaponry matches the hatred towards the player, even though there are always some of those who wield only pistols. Respect is also earned by doing missions for each of the gangs, and a high level of respect is required to unlock the harder but more rewarding missions. The player can find out which gang is hated by other gangs by going to the blue phone in each gang's territory.
The police pursue the player on the PC version.
There are three levels of mission difficulty: easy, taken from green payphones; medium, from yellow payphones, which pay better, but require the player to have some respect; and hard, from red payphones, which pay very well, but usually are very hard, and require maximum respect. For completing a mission, the player earns money, respect and a money multiplier. Sometimes during a mission, the player is also given access to new parts of town, vehicles, or weapons.
After completing each level on the PC version, the player unlocks not only the next district, but also a Bonus Stage . There are two different types, each with three arenas: destroying Ice Cream Vans , and a time-attack mode where the player must race against the clock (killing pedestrians and gang members earns the player more time).
In every city, there are some "side" missions. Most reward the player with an extra life or money, but the Wang Cars side mission rewards the player with three special vehicles.
These missions are:
There are seven gangs in the game:
Each area features five radio stations, from a pool of 11, to which the player listens while driving a vehicle. Changing radio stations for preference was also possible on the PC version by pressing . " Head Radio " was present in the original Grand Theft Auto , Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . Each gang also has its own radio station that transmits within a limited area. All radio stations only play music, unlike future games, which also feature talk radio stations.
GTA 2 was the last PC GTA with built-in multiplayer until Grand Theft Auto IV and subsequent titles. It supported up to six players and connections via Internet, LAN, serial cable or direct modem connection. There are also three small multiplayer maps designed for a smaller number of players, as well as three districts with modified locations of weapons and parked cars.
Playing via Internet using only built-in tools is quite difficult. First, one needs to choose "TCP/IP connection", then enter the server IP, and then one can join only if the host is within the hosting menu. That's why programs like GTA2 Game Hunter or GTA2 Gamer were made. They provide one-click joining without entering anybody's IP, a chat function and some other useful options that make playing GTA 2 online as easy as any other modern game.
The live-action rendition of Claude Speed, played by Scott Maslen, from the opening cinematic of Grand Theft Auto 2 .
The opening of the game was pieced together from live film-material that was taken from an eight-minute GTA 2 short film created for the purpose of advertising the game. This movie has since been made available to the public and is downloadable from the game's website.
Whether the movie can be considered canonical is debatable, as it shows Claude getting killed at the end (shot by a Zaibatsu hitman while trying to break into a sports car).
Despite the fact that GTA 2 is supposed to be set in the near future, the movie was clearly shot in present-day New York City , and also featured a blue-and-white NYPD Chevrolet Caprice police car as a pursuit vehicle. Claude Speed was played by Scott Maslen , known for his role in the British crime show, The Bill .
Grand Theft Auto 2 was developed by DMA Design . Promo material for the game released before release described Anywhere City as "a fully dysfunctional urban hell" and explains that the artists modeled the city on apocalyptic visions of the future from '70s and '80s movies.
GTA 2's gameplay is presented via the top-down perspective , as in all Grand Theft Auto titles/expansion packs, but due to the employment of early 3D tech, it exhibits smooth dynamic camera zooming, smooth sprite rotation, and lighting effects from street lamps, car headlamps, and emergency vehicle roof lighting. The game also includes a unique gang reputation system, which remains unused in any other Grand Theft Auto game to this day.
The vehicles are especially stylish, taking vintage '50s designs—all curves, chrome, and giant grills—and giving them a futuristic twist. "As if Havana got transported to the 21st Century," says the game's charmingly retro Flash-based website. [ 1 ]
The picture of the yellow car on the cover of GTA 2 was taken from atop the Empire State Building – the photographer simply shot a random car. [ 2 ]
Grand Theft Auto 2 was met with mixed to favorable reception, with most critics praising the game for its freedom and gameplay, while a major criticism was the gameplay being too similar to the previous game.
Game Informer awarded the game with 8.5/10.
Edge awarded the game with 8/10.
Computer and Video Games awarded the game with 4 stars out of 5.
GamePro awarded the game with 7/10, stating: "It's twisted fun for a while, but then it starts to get old".
Metacritic awarded the PS1 version with 70/100.
GameRankings awarded the PC version with 71%, the Dreamcast version with 70%, the PS1 version with 69% and the GBC version with the least favorable 35%.
GamesRadar+ awarded a 6.9/10, stating "Carefully crafted, big and sprawling and, more to the point, fun and exciting, GTA 2 retains the best qualities of its predecessors, and its new gang warfare element improves upon and expands upon the original idea, giving the gameplay a little more depth."
IGN gave GTA 2 a 6.8/10. Tal Blevins of IGN said in his review: "Here we have one of the few times that good gameplay has been badly hampered by control and graphic choices... Not a bad game, but essentially, it's more of the same."
GameSpot gave the GTA 2 the same score, and Jeff Gerstmann stated in his review that "The graphics have been redone, the music is different, there is a slew of new weapons, the mission structure is a bit more complex, and the city feels a bit more alive. But at its core, GTA 2 is the same old game."
Next Generation awarded the game with 2 stars out of 5. Blake Fischer stated in his Dreamcast version review that "A great idea that, for one reason or another, never really gets into a must-play game."
Grand Theft Auto 2 sold over two million copies in its lifespan and was labeled as one of the "PS1 Greatest Hits".
Grand Theft Auto III Main Theme
October 26, 2001 October 26, 2001 September 25, 2003
May 20, 2002 May 24, 2002 May 24, 2002 September 25, 2003 March 26, 2010
January 2, 2004 January 2, 2004 July 29, 2004
November 11, 2021
November 11, 2021
Grand Theft Auto III (also shortened into GTA III or GTA 3 ) is a 2001 action-adventure videogame developed by Rockstar North (then known as DMA Design) and published by Rockstar Games . It was originally released for the PlayStation 2 console, but also saw ports for the PC and Xbox . It is the third main game of the Grand Theft Auto series and the fifth overall installment.
Set in the fictional Liberty City in 2001, Grand Theft Auto III begins a new continuity separated from its prede cessors . The game's narrative follows the adventures of Claude , a silent criminal who was betrayed by his girlfriend Catalina during a bank heist. Claude begins to work for different factions in the crime-riddled Liberty City, including the Mafia , Yakuza and corrupted figures.
Set in an open-world environment, Grand Theft Auto III is the first game in the series to be presented in a fully 3D world, shifting away from the top-down perspective that characterized previous games in the franchise. Development was handled by DMA Design, and it was the final game developed by the company before its rename into Rockstar North.
Grand Theft Auto III was universally acclaimed upon its release in October 2001. Critics praised the game for its presentation, game design, freedom, sound design and ambition, though it was a subject of controversy due to its violent nature. Multiple publications deemed it a revolutionary title for its advancements in game design and open-ended gameplay, and it was awarded a variety of end-year accolades. A commercial success, GTA 3 sold over 14 million copies.
In 2011, the game was re-released on iOS and Android devices for its 10-year anniversary under the title Grand Theft Auto III: 10 Year Anniversary Edition . It was met with positive responses, with gaming publications praising its visuals, though criticism was directed at the port's controls.
On November 11, 2021 , the game was re-released on 8th and 9th generation consoles for its 20-year anniversary under the title Grand Theft Auto III - The Definitive Edition , included in the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition bundle.
The protagonist of Grand Theft Auto III , Claude .
Chronologically following the events of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Catalina leaves with her boyfriend Claude to Liberty City . At the start of the game, the two are seen robbing a bank with Miguel , a Colombian Cartel member and their getaway driver, and another unnamed man. Amidst the chase, Catalina tells Claude that she is an ambitious girl and doesn't need him anymore, shooting him, killing the unnamed man, and leaving with Miguel and the money. Claude survives, and is arrested for the robbery. While crossing the Portland Island bridge in a police convoy, the Colombian Cartel ambushes them by blowing up the Callahan Bridge (isolating Portland from the rest of the city) and then kidnap an Old Oriental Gentleman . Claude and another prisoner named 8-Ball free themselves while the convoy is ambushed and leave.
8-Ball introduces Claude to Luigi Goterelli and Claude works for him to prove himself useful. Luigi orders him to drive Joey Leone 's favorite prostitute, Misty , to Joey's Garage , and earns Joey's trust by performing missions against the Triads and the Forelli Crime Family . Joey introduces him to Toni Cipriani , who Claude begins working for to exact revenge on the Triads after a failed assault attempt in a laundry shop. After proving himself, Claude is introduced to Joey's father and the head of the Leone Family, Salvatore Leone . Claude is not powerful enough to stay for Joey, Toni, and Salvatore's meeting, so he is instructed to drive around Salvatore's trophy wife, Maria Latore , and saves her from a drug raid in a warehouse party she attended.
Salvatore begins trusting Claude, and confides in him that he believes that a bartender named Curly Bob is selling information about the Leone's to the Cartel in exchange for SPANK, an illegal drug. Claude follows Curly Bob and finds out that Catalina and Miguel are now leaders of the Cartel. Claude kills Curly Bob, but Catalina and Miguel escape. Salvatore has Claude, with the help of 8-Ball, blow up the Cartel Ship with their supply of SPANK.
For his last mission, Salvatore asks Claude to get rid of a car filled with murder evidence. However, as Claude nears the car's location, Maria pages Claude, saying that the car is a trap, and to meet her at the docks. Should Claude enter the car, it will explode. At the docks, Maria admits that she lied to Salvatore and said she was having an affair with Claude, which caused his rage. Maria introduces him to a Yakuza leader Asuka Kasen and they move to Staunton Island to escape the Leone's.
Asuka wants Claude to prove that his ties with Leone's are completely broken by assassinating Salvatore as he is leaving Luigi's club. Claude works for Asuka against the Leone's and the police. She soon introduces Claude to her brother and waka-gashira Kenji Kasen and a corrupt cop Ray Machowski . Claude works for Kenji against the Uptown Yardies and the Cartel while he also works for Ray to keep his connections with the Yakuza secret by making him do his dirty work.
Ray introduces him to billionaire mogul Donald Love and Claude begins working for him. He rescues the Oriental Gentleman from the Cartel, after Love tells him that they are holding him hostage for a ransom. To lower the real estate price of the city, Claude starts a war between the Yakuza and the Cartel by running over Kenji with a Cartel vehicle. He also collects the packages from a plane hangar, however, the Cartel have taken it back to their construction site headquarters, and finds Miguel and Catalina there. Miguel attempts to negotiate with Claude, but Catalina shoots him in the back and escapes. Thinking that the Cartel killed her brother, Asuka arrives to assist Claude and tortures Miguel for information. After helping Love by providing a distraction, Claude returns to the penthouse and finds that he and the Oriental Gentleman have disappeared. He returns to the construction site and finds Asuka and Miguel both dead, with a note from Catalina saying she has kidnapped Maria and will kill her unless he brings $500,000 to the Cartel Mansion.
Upon arriving, it is revealed that the exchange was an ambush and Catalina takes Maria away in a helicopter and orders them to kill Claude. Claude escapes and follows the helicopter to the dam. Catalina flies away, leaving Maria on the dam with her men. Claude kills all the men and shoots down the helicopter, killing Catalina. Leaving the dam, Maria begins babbling, and after the screen fades to black, a gunshot is heard. It is unknown if Claude shot Maria or merely fired into the sky in order to shut her up.
Grand Theft Auto III is considered to be the first 3D game in the series, using Criterion Games' RenderWare game engine. [ 1 ] Executive producer Sam Houser had always wanted the series to move to 3D; the development team of Grand Theft Auto 2 had performed some similar tests, and DMA Design had experimented with 3D worlds with games like Body Harvest and Space Station Silicon Valley . [ 2 ] With the release of the PlayStation 2 , the team felt that a large 3D world was possible. Art director Aaron Garbut felt that other video games at the time "were a thing you played", wanting Grand Theft Auto III to be "a place you lived in". [ 3 ]
When designing the game, the development team expanded upon concepts introduced in the previous Grand Theft Auto games. Benzies stated that the intention was to recreate the "freedom and diversity" of the previous games in a "living, breathing 3D world", using the power of the PlayStation 2 to do so. The console's ability to use DVDs, an improvement over the PlayStation's limit to CDs, allowed the team to store more data, such as animations, music and environments. Despite this, the team found it difficult to fit the game into the PlayStation 2's 32 megabytes of RAM, due to the scale. The game's size also created difficulties for the testers, due to the variety of options. [ 4 ] Benzies felt that creating a living city was the "underlying principle" of the game's concept during development. Sam Houser felt that the game's 3D element allowed the "chemistry of the team [to come] together perfectly for the first time". [ 5 ]
A major difficulty the team encountered was converting all game elements into a fully 3D world, including the sound and radio stations, as well as designing and voicing the non-player characters, due to the amount that existed within the open world. [ 6 ] Producer Dan Houser said there were about 8,000 lines of recorded dialogue in the game, while audio programmer Raymond Usher estimated about 18,000. [ 7 ] The basic technical elements of the game began to work together in mid-2000, with a carjacking mechanic prototype and stable streaming model. [ 8 ] Streaming was initially intended to be reserved for music and map geometry, but other elements were eventually included when it became apparent to the team as more data was entered.
When designing the game world, the team initially created a "hybrid city", which Dan Houser described as "a post industrial Midwest slash east coast generic" city. Upon developing within this game world, the team realized that basing the design on a real location meant "you have a lot of things you can say about it". As a result, they redesigned Liberty City , which had been previously featured in the first Grand Theft Auto , basing it loosely on New York City. DMA Design worked with a team at Rockstar in New York for cultural references; the Rockstar team would regularly work long hours for full weeks, ensuring that the references, such as in-game car manufacturers, were appropriate to the city.
The city is broken into three islands: an industrial section, a commercial center, and the suburbs, similar to the district separation from the previous game. The islands unlock as the story progresses; the team wanted players to "start out feeling poor and work to being richer". [ 9 ] Dan Houser described Liberty City as a "hybrid of a generic American city", including Chicago, Pittsburgh, Detroit, New York, and Philadelphia; he felt that the parallel realism of the world allowed the team to make more social commentary than previously. Sam Houser cited films and shows like Heat (1995) and The Sopranos (1999–2007) as inspiration for the setting, and wanted to emulate them in the game. He also cited the influence of The Legend of Zelda , Super Mario 64 and the 1990 film Goodfellas , describing Grand Theft Auto III as "a cross between a gangster movie and an RPG". [ 10 ] [ 11 ]
The team developed the story and design simultaneously. Dan Houser said, "we use the story to expose the mechanics, and we use the mechanics to tell the story"; however, he found it difficult to create the narrative, as the game is so strongly focused on player freedom. He wanted the story to be more nuanced and interesting than the generic "rise and fall and rise again of a superhero bad guy". The game's script was also focused on mission objectives, attempting to implement high amounts of interactivity. Dan Houser felt that each mission is "its own short story", and part of an "overarching story". Dan Houser and co-writer James Worrall drew influence from mob films and the mafiosi featured in films by Martin Scorsese ; the team also "paid a lot of attention" to shows like Miami Vice and The Sopranos . When writing the story, Dan Houser and Worrall regularly met with the designers, and filled a room with post-it notes to reconstruct the story components to shape the game.
Many of the game characters were animated using motion capture, filmed at a rented studio at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, though this was limited by technical constraints. The character movement was also treated as being cinematic, though limited polygons heavily inhibited this. Animating non-player characters entering and driving cars proved to be difficult for the team, due to the variety of vehicle designs. "It involved chaining together dozens of different animations and altering key frames in code", recalled software engineer Alan Campbell . The team used varying camera angles when animating the game's cutscenes in order to evoke different emotions. [ 12 ] For the voice acting, the team wanted "natural, subtle performances", which proved difficult as many of the actors "had in their head the idea that because video games are animated, their performances needed to be animated", explained motion capture director Navid Khonsari .
The playable protagonist is unnamed in the game, [ 13 ] and his name is not officially revealed as Claude until his appearance in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . He is a silent protagonist, never speaking throughout his appearances; the team decided upon this primarily because it "did not seem like a major issue", due to the other challenges faced during development, and also partly to allow players to identify with the character, as he would be who the players want him to be. The developers did not have "any one single inspiration" for Claude; they liked the idea of a "strong, silent killer, who would be juxtaposed with all of these neurotic and verbose mobsters".
Grand Theft Auto III features about three-and-a-half hours of in-game radio material. For the music, the team sought a broad diversity to recreate the real sensation of skipping through radio stations, reflecting the gangster movie culture invoked by the game. The team used the talk radio stations to add character to the city and provide a "unique take on American life"; [ 14 ] Sam Houser described it as "a very iconoclastic look at America". The team used real DJs to portray those on the radio. In doing so, they wrote unusual dialogue for the DJs, seeking the effect of "high production values and absurd content". Music director Craig Conner assembled the assets of the radio station—music, advertisements, DJ dialogue, and station imaging.
Chatterbox FM , one of the game's radio stations, is entirely talk radio hosted by a fictionalised version of Lazlow Jones , who met Rockstar's managing director Terry Donovan in 2001 as they were both preparing to travel to Los Angeles for E3. Donovan invited Jones to Rockstar's offices in Manhattan, where he met the development team, including Dan and Sam Houser and producer Jamie King , and they invited him to work on the game. The writing sessions took place at Dan Houser's apartment, and the entire process, including editing and recording, took around four to five months. With the station's guests and callers, the writers wanted to satirize American lifestyles, focusing on fictional stories as opposed to quickly outdated stories based on recent news. Jones found the conversations to be natural, having worked in radio for several years. The roles of the guests and callers were performed by Jones' friends and neighbors, including his father, and were recorded in New York. [ 15 ]
The game takes place in Liberty City, which is loosely based on a series of East Coast and mid-western cities, including New York City , Philadelphia , Detroit , Baltimore , Chicago and Pittsburgh , but without being any one in particular [ 16 ] [ 17 ] There are different districts in Liberty City . It consists of three islands - Portland , Staunton Island , and Shoreside Vale . The three islands are comparatively similar to Brooklyn, Manhattan, and Staten Island, respectively.
This is the first area the player will interact with in the game.
This is the old industrial district, consisting largely of workmen in old cars, the Leones , Triads , and Diablos .
Staunton Island is the second of the three districts the player will see in the game.
This is the business district. Lots of rich people can be found here, along with their nice cars. The resident gangs are the Yakuza , the Yardies , and Colombian Cartel .
This is where the ending of the game takes place.
This is the suburban area of Liberty City. The wealthy live here, along with the middle-class residents and gangs. The Francis International Airport is also located here. The local gangs are the Southside Hoods and the Colombian Cartel .
The core development team of GTA III consisted of about 23 people at DMA Design in Edinburgh, Scotland, who worked closely with publisher Rockstar Games in New York City. The original prototype for the game was created on the Dreamcast around the end of development on the previous game Grand Theft Auto 2 , which led to it being greenlit. [ 18 ] By early 2001 , the team had designed the city, cars and some weapons. [ 19 ] An online multiplayer mode was initially planned for the game, but was ultimately dropped due to time and resource limitations. Producer Leslie Benzies described Grand Theft Auto III as a "crime simulation game". [ 20 ] Rockstar originally offered it to Microsoft Game Studios as an Xbox exclusive, but Microsoft declined due to the game's adult nature and its poorly-performing predecessors. [ 21 ] [ 22 ]
It could be said that Grand Theft Auto III has the third least amount of influences in the entire GTA series, only having two, which is the movie GoodFellas and the classic TV show The Sopranos as most of the mafia theme in the game was influenced by the both the show and the movie.
Upon release, Grand Theft Auto III was met with near-unanimous critical acclaim. Various critics praised the game for its story, gameplay, and the near unlimited freedom given to the player; GTA III was touted as revolutionary by several game review websites and publications.
GTA III holds a 97/100 on Metacritic , making it (along with Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 ) the highest rated PlayStation 2 game on the website. The game holds a 95% on GameRankings , making it the highest rated PlayStation 2 game on the website, as well the second highest rated game of its year, behind Halo .
Eurogamer gave the game a perfect 10, calling it "A luscious, sprawling epic of a game and one of the most complete experiences I have ever encountered. If this is what I've waited a year to see on my PS2, then I would have waited ten. Magnificent".
IGN heavily praised the game, giving it a 9.6/10, calling it "a massive scale operation that just gets better and better as players dig into it, even though it gets ridiculously difficult at points."
1Up.com gave the game an A+, saying "The best game of the year? Maybe the best game ever".
GameSpot gave the game a 9.6/10. Jeff Gerstmann of GameSpot stated in his review: "While the violent nature of the game will surely turn some people off and kids simply shouldn't be allowed anywhere near it, GTA III is, quite simply, an incredible experience that shouldn't be missed by anyone mature enough to handle it".
Game Informer gave it a 9.5/10, stating "The environments of Liberty City are stunning in scope and detail, dwarfing anything I've ever seen, and your choices are endless".
GameSpy awarded the game with 9.4/10 stating "A fantastically designed and fun game that's one of the most absorbing, entertaining titles released in a while. It gets better and better with every single day, as you continue discovering new little features here and there."
Game Revolution gave the game a perfect score, stating "Just about the best game yet released on the system and one of the most impressive console titles we've ever seen. And I ain't blowing smoke up your tailpipe".
GamePro gave the game a 5/5, stating "Greatly improved in GTA III is the stunning visual and sound package."
GamesRadar gave the game a perfect 10, stating "Almost immediately after your first play you'll realize that underneath the cloak of controversy that will forever shadow GTA3 sits a truly special, groundbreaking and brilliant game. You'll love it."
Edge was less favorable, rating the game 8/10.
The PC version of the game received less positive, yet strong, reception. The PC version has been criticized for performance problems, especially in light of the much smoother performance of Vice City. This was due to technical issues. IGN gave the PC version a 9.4/10, while GameSpot gave it a 9.3/10.
In 2014, WatchMojo placed GTA III at the #5 spot in their "Top 10 Grand Theft Auto Games" list countdown, as well as in their "Every Grand Theft Auto Game Ranked" video over on their sister channel MojoPlays in 2021.
GTA III emerged with an US$49.95 price, becoming the #1 selling game of 2001 in the United States. The game was later discounted to the price of $19 after becoming one of Sony's "Greatest Hits". The game has become the second most best-selling game of 2002, behind its sequel, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . As of March 26, 2008, Grand Theft Auto III has sold 14.5 million units according to Take-Two Interactive.
GTA III is the fifth best-selling game of the series, behind Grand Theft Auto V , Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
The 10th Anniversary Edition was announced by Rockstar Games during October 2011. The edition was released for mobile phones and tablets, such as iPod, iPhone and Android. The game was released in fall 2011.
A limited edition of Claude action figure was available for pre-order for $149.99 ; only 1,500 pieces were made.
The iOS version of GTA III has received favorable reception, with IGN rewarding it with a 7.5/10.
Grand Theft Auto III - The Definitive Edition .
The Definitive Edition was announced by Rockstar on October 8th, 2021, as part of the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition pack. The edition was released on November 11, 2021, for PlayStation 5 , PlayStation 4 , Xbox Series X|S , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch and PC ; and was released on December 14, 2023 , for Apple iOS and Android .
The edition features across-the-board upgrades including graphical improvements and modern gameplay enhancements, while still maintaining the classic look and feel of its original version.
Grand Theft Auto III was changed significantly due to the real-world 9/11 terrorist attacks. The game was originally intended to be released on October 3, 2001, however the release was pushed back three weeks, until the 22nd, while Rockstar combed through the game's files. [ 23 ] Dan Houser claimed that the main reason the game's release was postponed was due to how close Rockstar Games 's head office was to the World Trade Center, and work that had to be done was made impossible due to the circumstances during that period. Dan also claims that, at the time, he came close to cancelling the game's release altogether due to the circumstances; "This beautiful city has been attacked, and now we're making a violent crime drama set in a city that's not unlike New York City". Despite this, he claims that it was his duty to release the game, especially considering how close they have come to releasing it.
Several changes were made to the game, however Rockstar claims that the changes made to the game only make it about 1% different. [ 24 ] For example, the Police car and Enforcer 's color scheme which resembled those of the NYPD's in the early 2000s was changed to an entirely new black and white color scheme, similar to Californian-style police vehicle color schemes. Several aspects of the map were changed. The Airtrain at Francis International Airport was made un-solid, to prevent the player from firing rocket launchers at it, and aircraft flight paths that flew through the city were changed. One mission was removed from the game as it referenced terrorism. Certain radio and pedestrian dialogue was also removed.
The game's Box art was changed, too. The original artwork was replaced with an entirely new style of artwork, which is still used to this day - comprising of sections displaying individual pieces of artwork from the game, spread around the box, and the Grand Theft Auto wordmark situated in the center of the box. The original artwork was still used for the European release of the game.
In some PAL territories, Grand Theft Auto III was released with different cover artwork, despite there being no major differences in the game itself. Below are examples of several box arts.
The Definitive Edition
Original Versions
November 8, 2002 November 8, 2002 May 20, 2004
May 12, 2003 May 15, 2003 May 20, 2003 September 25, 2003 October 9, 2009
January 2, 2004 January 2, 2004 July 29, 2004
November 11, 2021
November 11, 2021
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (also referred to as GTA Vice City , Vice City and abbreviated GTA VC ) is a video game developed by Rockstar North . It is the sixth installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and the second game in the 3D Universe timeline of the series.
The game is set in Vice City , Florida , in 1986 , and concerns the exploits of protagonist Tommy Vercetti as he rises to become Vice City's major criminal power. The game's events follow on from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Designed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games , it debuted in North America on October 27, 2002 , for PlayStation 2 and quickly became the best-selling video game of the year. Following this success, GTA Vice City saw releases in Europe , Australia and Japan, and became available on PC and Xbox . Later, Rockstar Vienna packaged the game with its predecessor, GTA III , and sold it as the Grand Theft Auto: Double Pack for Xbox, and finally it debuted for iOS and Android December 6, 2012 as a celebration of its 10-year anniversary. As of April 2015 , GTA Vice City is the fourth best-selling PlayStation 2 game of all time in the United States. GTA Vice City also appeared on the Japanese magazine Famitsu's readers' list of 100 all-time favorite videogames in 2006.
Its original release version uses a tweaked version of the RenderWare game engine used by GTA III , and similarly presents a huge cityscape, fully populated with buildings (from hotels to skyscrapers), vehicles (cars, motorcycles, boats, helicopters, and planes) and people.
On November 11, 2021 , the game was re-released on 8th and 9th generation consoles in honor of Grand Theft Auto III 's 20-year anniversary under the title Grand Theft Auto: Vice City - The Definitive Edition , included in the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition bundle.
From the official site :
Forelli Crime Family overlord Sonny Forelli sends Tommy Vercetti , who was recently released from prison, to Vice City in order to gain profit off the uprising of the drug trade in the city.
After arriving in Vice City, Tommy, Harry and Lee are introduced to Ken Rosenberg who is tasked with driving them to a drug deal with the Vance brothers . But the deal is ambushed and one of the brothers along with Harry and Lee are killed and the money and cocaine are stolen.
After Tommy and Rosenberg discuss what they plan to do, Tommy calls Sonny and tells him the deal was a setup. After some hostile words, Sonny agrees to let Tommy handle the situation while Rosenberg tells Tommy about Juan Cortez , a retired colonel who helped set up the deal. After meeting him, his daughter Mercedes Cortez introduces him to the many of the more popular guests including Vice City's largest drug baron Ricardo Diaz at the party before asking him to take her to The Pole Position Club .
Rosenberg then tells Tommy that Kent Paul may know what became of Tommy's merchandise and Paul tells Tommy that Leo Teal may know what happened. Tommy confronts Teal and beats him to death before being confronted by Lance Vance , the third survivor in the botched deal. Tommy and Lance form an alliance and vow to get the money and drugs back.
Rosenberg then introduces Tommy to Avery Carrington , a property developer. Avery gives Tommy work and in exchange offers to protect Tommy from any threats to his operation.
Tommy is then offered some work from Cortez, who has Tommy kill Gonzalez , a former right-hand who is responsible for botching the deal. Tommy kills Gonzalez and goes for more work. He runs into Lance again and the two watch over a drug deal between Diaz' Gang and the Cubans . But the Haitians ambush the deal as Tommy, Lance and Diaz are forced to fight back and afterwards Tommy is offered work from Diaz.
During his work for Diaz, Lance learns that Diaz' gang were the ones who ambushed the deal and killed their associates. Tommy however plans to gain Diaz' trust before attempting to kill him. Lance loses patience and secretly attempts to kill Diaz, but he fails and Tommy is forced to rescue him. With their cover blown, Tommy and Lance head to Diaz' mansion and kill him. With Diaz dead, Tommy is given more opportunities to take over the town.
Tommy ends up buying many businesses and expanding on his business. But Lance begins to feel under appreciated, causing a rift between him and Tommy. Meanwhile, Sonny loses patience and personally comes to Vice City to claim his money. Tommy plans ahead and attempts to give him fake money, but Lance betrays Tommy, reveals the plan to rip off Sonny and the Forellis attempt to kill him. Tommy kills Lance and then Sonny and is ultimately wounded in the chaos. Tommy then makes Rosenberg his right-hand man.
The game is set in 1986 in fictional Vice City, which is based heavily on the city of Miami. [ 2 ] Vice City previously appeared in the original Grand Theft Auto ; the development team decided to reuse the location and incorporate ideas from within the studio and the fanbase. [ 3 ] They wanted to satirize a location that was not contemporary, unlike Grand Theft Auto III' s Liberty City. The team wanted to choose a location that had various similarities and differences to New York City—the inspiration of Liberty City—eventually leading them to Miami, which producer Leslie Benzies describes as "a party town, all sun and sea and sex, but with that same dark edge underneath". Sam Houser called it "the grooviest era of crime because it didn't even feel like it was crime... it was a totally topsy-turvy back-to-front period of time". The team intended to make Vice City a "living, breathing city", for the player to feel like "life still goes on" while the character is inside a building. [ 4 ]
The game's look, particularly the clothing and vehicles, reflect its 1980s setting. Many themes are borrowed from the major films Scarface (1983) and Carlito's Way (1993), the latter for its characterization and portrayal of nuanced criminals. The television series Miami Vice (1984–89) was also a major influence and was regularly watched by the team throughout development. [ 5 ] Art director Aaron Garbut used the series as a reference point in creating neon lighting. In recreating a 1980s setting, the team found it "relatively painless" due to the distinct culture of the time period and the team's familiarity of the era. The art team was provided with large volumes of research, as well as reference photographs from other members of the development team. The team organized field research trips to Miami shortly after the development of Grand Theft Auto III , splitting into small teams and observing the streets.
The protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Tommy Vercetti .
The team spent time "solving [the] riddle" of a speaking protagonist, a notable departure from Grand Theft Auto III' s silent protagonist Claude . [ 6 ] Ray Liotta portrayed protagonist Tommy Vercetti . Liotta described the role as challenging: "You're creating a character that's not there before... It's so intensive". When recording the role, the team used blue screen in order to allow Liotta to visualize "how it's gonna move". [ 7 ] The team ensured that the player felt "real affinity" for Tommy, making the narrative a key development interest. Dan Houser described Tommy as "strong and dangerous and prepared to wait for the right opportunity to arrive". Director Navid Khonsari recalled Liotta frequently complaining on set and found him difficult to work with as a result. [ 8 ] "In some sessions he was... into it, but then sometimes... he was very dark and couldn't work", said Sam Houser. [ 9 ] Following the game's success, Liotta reportedly complained that he was underpaid for the role. [ 10 ]
The majority of the game's animations were original, with only a few borrowed from Grand Theft Auto III. For the characters, the team used motion capture and stop motion animation techniques; cutscenes use the former, while gameplay movements use a combination of both techniques. The team encountered difficulty in animating motorcycle animations, due in part to the variety of models. [ 11 ] Pedestrian character models use skins in GTA Vice City , allowing the artists to produce more realistic characters. There are 110 unique pedestrian models throughout the game world alongside roughly 50 story characters; each character is rendered using twice the amount of polygons and textures found in Grand Theft Auto III . This also impacted the character physics, improving gameplay aspects such as weapon-hit accuracy. [ 12 ] Some character models and scenarios were inspired by films such as The Godfather (1972), and the game's presentation was inspired by action television shows of the 1980s. The interplay between Tommy Vercetti and Lance Vance was crafted to be similar to the relationship of Miami Vice' s Sonny Crockett and Ricardo Tubbs.
The game features 8,000 lines of recorded dialogue, four times the amount in Grand Theft Auto III . It contains over 90 minutes of cutscenes and nine hours of music, with more than 113 songs and commercials. The team was interested in the challenge of creating the game's soundtrack, particularly in contrast to Grand Theft Auto III' s music, which Sam Houser described as "clearly satirical and its own thing". In developing the radio stations, the team wanted to reinforce the game's setting by collating a variety of songs from the 1980s and therefore performed extensive research. [ 13 ] The radio stations were published by Epic Records in seven albums—known collectively as Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Official Soundtrack Box Set —alongside the game in October 2002. [ 14 ] [ 15 ] Vice City contains about "three times as much" talk radio as Grand Theft Auto III . Producer and talk show host Lazlow Jones stated that the small percentage of station listeners that actually call in are "insane"; in Vice City, the team "bumped it up a notch", emphasizing the extremity. Dan Houser felt that the talk stations give depth to the game world. [ 16 ]
GTA Vice City is arguably the most heavily influenced Grand Theft Auto game, taking inspiration from a wide range of classic 1980s movies, television programmes and music.
Perhaps the closest real-life counterpart to GTA Vice City is the television series Miami Vice . Aside from the broad-ranging similarities (80's music — including new wave , hip-hop , R&B , soul , glam metal and synthesizer pop — organized crime , drug trafficking , styled cars, pastel clothes etc.), several specific references are included. For example, at a 3-star wanted level or above, the player will be chased by two undercover police officers named Cracker and Butts , who strongly resemble Sonny Crockett and Ricardo Tubbs , the primary characters from the TV series. Furthermore, these officers drive a VCPD Cheetah , which is itself styled after the 1986 Ferrari Testarossa , Crockett's car in the latter three seasons of the show.
Another direct link to Miami Vice is the inclusion of " Crockett's Theme ," a piece of instrumental music from the show, on the in-game radio station Emotion 98.3 . Many other popular songs that were used in Miami Vice are featured on the game's radio stations, including " Self Control " by Laura Branigan , " Turn Up the Radio " by Autograph and " Missing You " by John Waite . The musical similarities extend to the background score composed specifically for the game — many cutscenes and the end credits feature ambient, synth-heavy tracks very much in the style of Jan Hammer , who provided the background music for the show, while the " Theme from Vice City " is comparable to Hammer's " Miami Vice Theme ".
One of the game's primary characters, Lance Vance , is voiced by Philip Michael Thomas , who portrayed Tubbs in Miami Vice . His initial goal in the game — to avenge the death of his brother in a drug deal gone wrong — mirrors Tubbs' objective in the show's pilot episode. Several vehicles and weapons in Vice City are also taken from the TV series, including the Squalo (Sonny Crockett's speedboat), the Stinger (Crockett's Ferrari Daytona , his car for the first two seasons, the Marquis (Crockett's sailing yacht), the Infernus , the Katana (featured during the climax of the episode "Bushido"), the Stubby Shotgun (Tubbs' signature weapon in the later seasons of the show) and the MAC-10 (a weapon smuggled in the episode "Evan").
Two of the antagonists of the game share their first names with the two main characters of Miami Vice. Ricardo Diaz who was responsible for the botched the drug deal shares his first name with Ricardo Tubbs and Sonny Forelli who was responsible for setting Tommy up and making him serve 15 years in prison shares his first name with Sonny Crockett.
The screen capture from Miami Vice (top), and as it appears during the introduction to Vice City (bottom)
Other more subtle references to Miami Vice appear in the game. For example, during the opening credits sequence, one of the stylized images that appears framing the in-game footage is actually a screenshot from the episode "Bought and Paid For", showing Nico Arroyo's Lamborghini Countach being chased by Crockett's Daytona. The attire worn by the Cuban and Haitian gangs in the game is taken from two prominent extras in a scene at Miami International Airport in the pilot episode of the show. Also, the game's Hidden Packages , small green "tiki statues" packed with cocaine, are a reference to the episode "Milk Run", in which cocaine is smuggled in an identical fashion.
Another significant influence on GTA Vice City is the 1983 film Scarface , starring Al Pacino as Tony Montana . Several in-game locations, such as the mansion that becomes the Vercetti Estate and the Malibu Club , are obviously styled after locations featured in the movie. Elsewhere in the city, there is a hidden apartment containing a chainsaw within a blood-stained bathroom, a nod to Scarface's infamous chainsaw dismemberment scene. The game's final mission mirrors the end of the movie; in both instances, the main character is assaulted by an army of Sosa ’s goons at their mansion leading to a large shootout (although Tommy survives, whereas Montana does not). The "Mr. Vercetti" outfit available from The Pole Position Club strongly resembles an outfit worn by Tony Montana, and even Tommy Vercetti himself takes many character traits from Al Pacino's character, specifically his short temper, his heavy dealings in the cocaine trade and his desire to rise to the top.
It is also worth noting that the radio station Flashback FM from Grand Theft Auto III exclusively features songs written for the Scarface soundtrack; the developers acknowledged the film as being a major influence on the overall rise-to-criminal-power theme of that game, and the soundtrack was included as an homage.
Other references and influences on Vice City include:
Rockstar North began to develop Grand Theft Auto: Vice City in late 2001 , around the time of Grand Theft Auto III' s release. [ 17 ] While initial development only involved creating 3D models, executive producer Sam Houser said "it really kicked off at the beginning of 2002" and lasted about nine months. [ 18 ] After the release of the Windows version of Grand Theft Auto III , the development team discussed creating a mission pack for the game that would add new weapons, vehicles, and missions. Upon further discussion, the team decided to make this concept a stand-alone game, which became GTA Vice City . [ 19 ] The game was announced on 22 May 2002, during the Electronic Entertainment Expo. It was Rockstar North's most expensive game at the time, with a budget of US$5 million. On 5 September 2002, the company announced that the release date of 22 October had been postponed until 29 October to meet product demand. [ 20 ] By 15 October 2002, development of Vice City stopped as the game was submitted for manufacturing. Capcom published the game in Japan on 20 May 2004 for PlayStation 2 and Windows. The game was added to the Rockstar Games Launcher in September 2019 .
Upon release, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City received critical acclaim by many video game reviewers and critics, and it was a commercial success.
Metacritic awarded the game with a 95/100, making it the fifth highest rated PlayStation 2 game of all time.
GameSpy awarded the game with a 95/100. Raymond Padilla named the experience "deep, devilishly enjoyable, and unique."
AllGame awarded the game with a perfect 5 stars out of 5. Scott Alan Marriott felt that the story and the characters was much better than the previous entry as a result; Marriott also found that Tommy Vercetti was more engaging than Claude , and he also named Vice City soundtrack an "unforgettable listening experience."
EuroGamer and Game Informer awarded the game with a perfect 10/10.
GameRevolution awarded the game with a A rating, Ben Silverman claimed "The depth of this game is unparalleled; there are hordes of side quests and missions and cool little Easter eggs. You need to follow the main story in order to open up the whole city and gain access to property acquisition, but you can still spend hours just wandering around getting into trouble".
IGN awarded the game with a 9.7/10. Douglass Perry declared it as "one of the most impressive games of 2002." He praised mission design, commenting, "a stronger feeling of being inside a story within a world that truly exists".
GameSpot awarded the game with 9.6/10. Jeff Gerstmann named the cast of characters "colorful and memorable" and named the driving "more exciting and dangerous" then III .
Edge awarded the game with a 8/10; they commended Ray Liotta 's performance with Tommy Vercetti , saying it "sweats charisma".
In 2014, WatchMojo placed GTA Vice City at the #3 spot in their "Top 10 Grand Theft Auto Games" list countdown, and at the #4 spot in their "Every Grand Theft Auto Game Ranked" video over on their sister channel MojoPlays in 2021.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has sold over 17.5 million copies, making it the fourth best selling Grand Theft Auto game in the series.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City 10th Anniversary Edition was announced by Rockstar on October 26, 2012. [ 21 ] On November 21, 2012, Rockstar further revealed it would be launched on December 6, 2012, for iOS and Android devices, and would cost $4.99 for both the App Store version and the Google Play version (with the British release costing £2.99 for the App Store and £3.29 for the Google Play Store). [ 22 ]
Rockstar announced that it would include "native high-resolution graphics and several enhancements unique to the iOS and Android platforms including updated character models and lighting effects, new and more precise firing and targeting options, a fully customizable control layout and native support for retina display devices." [ 23 ]
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City - The Definitive Edition .
The Definitive Edition was announced by Rockstar on October 8, 2021, as part of the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition pack. The edition was released on November 11, 2021, for PlayStation 5 , PlayStation 4 , Xbox Series X|S , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch and PC ; and was released on December 14, 2023 , for Apple iOS and Android .
The edition features across-the-board upgrades including graphical improvements and modern gameplay enhancements, while still maintaining the classic look and feel of its original version.
October 29, 2004 October 29, 2004 January 25, 2007
June 7, 2005 June 10, 2005 June 10, 2005 February 12, 2010
June 10, 2005 June 10, 2005
December 11, 2012 December 12, 2012
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (also referred to as GTA San Andreas , GTA SA or simply San Andreas ) is a Rockstar North -developed video game released on 26th October 2004 by Rockstar Games , and is the seventh title in the Grand Theft Auto series and the third game in the 3D Universe of the series. It is the sequel to Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and the prequel to Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories and Grand Theft Auto III . It was released on the same date as Grand Theft Auto Advance . GTA San Andreas is set in the fictional state of San Andreas .
On November 11, 2021 , the game was re-released on 8th and 9th generation consoles in honor of Grand Theft Auto III 's 20-year anniversary under the title Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - The Definitive Edition , included in The Definitive Edition bundle.
San Andreas is 6 by 6 kilometers, or 36 million square meters, in size. "That's just the outside map and doesn't include the interior locations in the game, of which there are many". On top of that, the player is not restricted to the populated area of the map. The player can take a boat or plane and travel in any direction as far as they may want. [ 1 ]
Pedestrians in the game were made to be more reactive to the player's actions and even the appearance they choose for CJ . Producer Dan Houser , on the subject of giving CJ "stupid hair", commented that "if you've got a stupid haircut, people will say, 'You look stupid'". [ 2 ]
Swimming was a feature that was allegedly added just to quieten the fanbase that had been asking for it since GTA III . On the addition of swimming to the series for the first time, Dan Houser simply commented "swimming we never had before. We just got pissed off with people saying, 'We can't do swimming.' It works well in the game. So if you drive off a bridge you're not going to drown. But that said, it’s not a swimming game." [ 2 ] On being able to exit a vehicle which has fallen into the water , Houser added "If you don't choose to exit the car, you will sink with the car, then you'll have a certain amount of stamina under water which you can build up. There'll be a few missions that will have swimming in them, but it's not going to be like a PSone-era action adventure game where everyone was obsessed with swimming periodically. Definitely not. It just gives it playability." [ 2 ]
When asked by GameSpot if a single event could be scripted to occur extremely rarely, such as once a year, like in the case of the viral Bigfoot rumours, programmer John Whyte confirmed that "there isn't any way of the scripts identifying the date and creating events that are scheduled like this." [ 1 ]
Senior level designer Chris Rothwell confirmed that the scripting language and engine used in GTA San Andreas hadn't changed much since it was used to make GTA III several years earlier. "Since GTA Vice City , numerous improvements have been made to make scripting more powerful, such as the addition of arrays, switch statements, sequence tasks for character artificial intelligence, and uncountable game-specific commands." A favorite tool that was added during the development was the ability to record cars' positions while driving them around the city in the game, then being able to replay these car recordings in real time during a mission. This enabled the development team to really polish and improve the on-rails missions and scripted cutscenes . [ 1 ]
A lot of the new gameplay features in GTA San Andreas were only made possible by these advancements in the scripting language. For example, the 2D-based casino and console games weren't viable in GTA Vice City until a host of heads-up display sprite commands were added during the development of GTA San Andreas . "There were also very few custom animations used during missions in GTA Vice City , but for GTA San Andreas we had a brand-new animation scripting interface." This system allowed the designers to implement animation-heavy gameplay coded entirely within the scripting language, such as in the pool game, the basketball odd job, the parachute , and in numerous other areas. [ 1 ]
"We have an overall governing script we call the "main script." Among other things, this main script keeps track of your progress in the game, then loads and launches a mission script when you step on a mission trigger or start one of the odd jobs. Only one mission script is in memory and running at one time. In addition to the missions, we have ambient scripts resident in memory throughout the duration of the game that keep track of a wide variety of in-game systems. Examples of these are the mobile phone, stunt jumps, and shop interface scripts." [ 1 ]
When asked if players would be able to reskin characters on the PC version of the game, as they were able to in GTA Vice City , John Whyte noted that "reskinning is a much more complicated task in GTA San Andreas . This is because the model for CJ has three variations (normal, buff, and fat, depending on gameplay), and the clothes for the model have to be put together item by item because you have full control over CJ's wardrobe." [ 1 ]
The protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Carl "CJ" Johnson .
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is similarly structured to the previous two games in the series. The core gameplay consists of elements of third-person shooter and a driving game, affording the player a large, open environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, swimming (the first Grand Theft Auto game in which diving and swimming without drowning is possible), limited climbing, and jumping , as well as using weapons and various forms of hand-to-hand combat. Players can operate a variety of vehicles , including automobiles, boats , airplanes , helicopters , trains, tanks, motorcycles , and bicycles . Players may also import vehicles rather than steal them.
Carl Johnson is Grand Theft Auto 's most customizable protagonist due to the possibility to change his clothes , tattoos , hairstyle , and even his body mass in which he can be fat, skinny, or muscular. Later 3D-era games eliminated many of these aspects. The ability to change body mass (due to eating and exercise – or lack thereof – which requires ongoing maintenance) is as of 2025 unique to GTA San Andreas , as it has not been attempted again with any further 3D Universe or HD Universe games.
One aspect of Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (and the later Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories ) that is eliminated in GTA San Andreas is the "Welcome to" loading screens, which often disrupted game flow in those games; in GTA San Andreas , transition between areas occurs with no such interruption.
Rockstar North conducted massive amounts of research before developing the gangs of San Andreas ; this primarily involved talking to DJ Pooh , Mister Cartoon , Estevan Oriol , and hundreds of other well-known faces.
Gangs play a much larger role in GTA San Andreas than they did in GTA Vice City .
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas – just like Grand Theft Auto: Vice City – is heavily based on many crime-drama movies in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The game's soundtrack, which features, amongst others, gangsta rap , alternative / grunge / metal and new jack swing , was also taken from that same era.
The biggest counterpart of GTA San Andreas is the 1993 hood film Menace II Society . Many aspects were taken from this movie, such as Los Santos being based on Los Angeles during the movie, plus Grove Street itself is a reference to the film. Also, some of the lines in the game were taken from the movie. Furthermore, the event in which Beverly Johnson dies, the trigger of the game's storyline, is inspired by the final scene of the movie. One of the player's gang members with the green flannel shirt and the braids resembles O-Dog played by Larenz Tate , one of the main characters from the film. Also, the Balla wearing the beanie and shades resembles Harold's killer/carjacker who was later killed by O-Dog and Caine in a revenge killing in the film. MC Eiht , who plays A-Wax in the movie, provides the voice for Ryder and a couple of his songs are in the game. Clifton Powell , Samuel L. Jackson and Yolanda Whittaker (Yo-Yo), who were also in the film, voice Big Smoke , Tenpenny and Kendl respectively.
Another film that greatly influenced Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was the 1988 film Colors . The C.R.A.S.H. unit of the LAPD deals with Bloods , Crips , and Hispanic gangs at war, which much of the Los Santos storyline is based upon. Many of the missions in the game are influenced by scenes from the film. Officer Eddie Pulaski , played by the late Chris Penn , is based on Officer Danny "Pac Man" McGavin, which is played by his brother Sean Penn in the movie.
New Jack City is another film that influenced Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , particularly the San Fierro chapter. CJ befriends and works for Jizzy B to infiltrate and bring down the Loco Syndicate , just like Scotty Appleton ( Ice-T ) did to Nino Brown ( Wesley Snipes ) and the Cash Money Brothers in the film. Jizzy B. is loosely based on Nino Brown, and CJ can be made look similar to Nino Brown (if CJ buys the clothes from Victim ), and Big Smoke's Crack Palace closely resembles the Carter Apartment Buildings in the film.
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is also inspired by real-life events that occurred in the game's real-world counterpart Los Angeles in the 1990s, such as the Los Angeles riots , Rampart scandal , and the crack epidemic .
Other influences on the game are:
Although it is not explicitly stated when in 1992 the game takes place, it can be inferred to be around early to mid-spring, most likely April. Sunlight lasts around 13 hours, which in real-life California corresponds to around mid-April or late August. However, when Carl travels to Liberty City during Saint Mark's Bistro , the city is covered by snow, which in real-life New York is not possible in August, but can occur occasionally during April. A timeframe of April is also consistent with the pedestrians' clothing – they generally do not wear heavy winter clothing, but some can be seen with long-sleeves and trousers, implying that it is neither cold nor hot. It is also not uncommon to see pedestrians at beaches.
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was developed by Rockstar North . It had a development budget of $10 million. [ 3 ]
According to Rockstar North technical director Obbe Vermeij , for GTA San Andreas , a completely new level of detail system was implemented whereby a number of models (buildings) can share a single low-detail (LOD) model. This way, the low-detail models could be loaded as the player moves around the map as opposed to in one go as the player moves between islands, like in GTA Vice City . [ 1 ] The PC version has a further clip distance so that more of the map is always visible, and the map has a lot of the detail that had to be removed from the PlayStation 2 version to get it to fit into the smaller memory footprint. The clip distances for cars and pedestrians are increased, as well. "We have to draw these things further out because the PC will run at a higher resolution. In total, this means that the PC is pushing around a lot more than the PS2." [ 1 ]
Prior to its release for the PlayStation 2, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was one of the most highly anticipated video games of 2004 , along with Halo 2 , Doom 3 , and Half-Life 2 . GTA San Andreas met most of these expectations, as it was critically acclaimed and commercially successful, and praised as one of the PlayStation 2's best games.
The Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine awarded the game with a perfect 10/10, praising the game's open-endedness, the size of the state, and its engaging storyline and voice acting.
Metacritic awarded the game with 95/100, making it the fifth highest rated PlayStation 2 game of all time.
IGN rated the game a 9.9/10 (the highest score it has ever awarded to a PlayStation 2 game), calling it "the defining piece of software" for the PlayStation 2.
GameSpot rated the game 9.6/10, giving it an Editor's Choice award. Jeff Gerstmann of GameSpot said " San Andreas definitely lives up to the Grand Theft Auto name. In fact, it's arguably the best game in the series."
1UP.com awarded the game with an A rating. John Davison of 1UP.com said in his review that "San Andreas is shocking, not necessarily because of its typically contentious subject matter, but because of the sheer scale of the experience... is it really the best game ever made? Quite possibly, yes."
In Edge's "Top 100 Games to Play Today", GTA San Andreas ranked at number 27 in that list. Edge declared that the game remains "the ultimate expression of freedom, before next-gen reined it all back in."
The Guinness World Records 2009 Gamer's Edition listed GTA San Andreas as the best selling PlayStation 2 game of all time, with 17.33 million copies sold for that console alone.
In 2014, WatchMojo placed GTA San Andreas at the #1 spot in their "Top 10 Grand Theft Auto Games" list countdown, and at the #2 spot in their "Every Grand Theft Auto Game Ranked" video over on their sister channel MojoPlays in 2021 (right behind Grand Theft Auto IV ).
In 2011, Kotaku reported that, according to Rockstar Games , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas had sold 27.5 million copies worldwide, making it the second best selling Grand Theft Auto game in the series (right behind Grand Theft Auto V ).
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - The Definitive Edition .
The Definitive Edition was announced by Rockstar on October 8th, 2021 , as part of the Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition pack. The edition was released on November 11, 2021, for PlayStation 5 , PlayStation 4 , Xbox Series X|S , Xbox One , Nintendo Switch and PC ; and was released on December 14, 2023 , for Apple iOS and Android .
The edition features across-the-board upgrades, including graphical improvements and modern gameplay enhancements, while still maintaining the classic look and feel of its original version.
The game has received widespread acclaim for its technical achievements and free gameplay. However, it also received widespread criticism―initially due to its "gangster" elements, which include drugs, prostitution, and murder; but later due to the discovery of disabled interactive sex scenes, nicknamed Hot Coffee , which could be re-enabled using third-party mods. This led to the re-rating by the ESRB of the game from Mature to Adults-Only until a second version, with the sex scenes fully removed (and removed the ability to mod the PC version), was released.
April 29, 2008 April 29, 2008 September 23, 2008 October 30, 2008
April 29, 2008 April 29, 2008 September 23, 2008 October 30, 2008
December 3, 2008 December 3, 2008 December 8, 2008 March 20, 2009
Grand Theft Auto IV (also known as GTA IV or GTA 4 ) is the eleventh title in the Grand Theft Auto series and the first game in the HD Universe of the series.
The game was developed by Rockstar North and was published and released by Rockstar Games for the Xbox 360 , PlayStation 3 , and PC . Originally intended for a fourth-quarter 2007 release , the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions were released worldwide to widespread hype on April 29, 2008. GTA IV has subsequently been awarded the Gaming World Record of the Most Successful Entertainment Launch of All Time, and has received numerous other awards and accolades. The PC version was released on December 3, 2008. GTA IV and Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City were released for Xbox One via backwards compatibility on February 9, 2017.
The very first dialogue by Niko in the very first trailer for the game sets up the first notable immigrant protagonist , Niko Bellic, to enter the United States of America and make more critical analysis of American culture than previous main characters have done. Grand Theft Auto IV 's deeper meaning circulates around Niko's own philosophy, and his clear, blunt critiques of American culture and life in general make the deeper ideas much easier to see and understand. Niko is normally shown to be in the right, but is also proven to be overly cynical, leaving interpretation open to the viewer. The game and its very complex plot deals with several themes:
As read on the packaging of the game, Rockstar Games asks "what does the American dream mean today?". Niko is cynical about America, saying "capitalism is a dirty business" and only people who are extremely greedy and/or born into wealth have any opportunity. Mikhail Faustin also laments before he dies that "America made him ( Dimitri Rascalov ) greedy! ...This American greed takes everyone! It is like a disease!". Niko mocks American stereotypes like "strip malls and clinical obesity" (as do the makers of the game by parodying concepts like post-9/11 hysteria and celebrity obsession ). On the plus side, Roman Bellic, as well as other characters ( Brucie Kibbutz , Bernie Crane , Ivan Bytchkov , and Hossan Ramzy among others) are optimistic about America and life in general, tend to do very well for themselves financially, and try in vain to encourage Niko to be more optimistic.
The American Dream is also shown not to be promised to anyone, not even when they already live in America. Social circles all the way from Playboy X and Elizabeta Torres to Patrick McReary all have trouble making and responsibly saving money, not restricting it to any one nationality. Early on, The Beat 102.7 explains that their listeners "don't know how to manage their money yet!". Gerry McReary describes his family's spending habits as "Never any fucking focus! Never! ...Oh yeah, wine and women as quick as possible, and remain a slave forever". Packie eventually says after a mission "Well, Niko, that was a whole lot of effort for no fucking reward. Story of my life." to which Niko replies "It is the story of a lot of lives, Packie. I'm getting used to hearing it".
Grand Theft Auto IV has an extremely complex plot with a very long list of characters. It is also the first game in the HD Universe that allows the player to change the plot by making choices, which all have consequences. This creates an atmosphere where Niko is haunted and shadowed by his past actions wherever he goes. He tells Roman: "There is no such thing as a new beginning, Roman. With every day we live, we pick up new baggage, baggage we must carry with us for the rest of our lives. There's no dropping it and pretending we are fresh and clean, just because we get off a boat in a new place." Prime examples include his numerous encounters with Ray Bulgarin , most of the random characters , and working alongside Johnny Klebitz or Patrick McReary while he had, either by not having met them yet or circumstances beyond his control, killed someone close to them. In the finale, Niko feels the coffin of Kate or Roman, depending on the player's choice, on his conscience because of his criminal lifestyle, saying they "never should have gotten close to me". He is deeply depressed about being trapped in the criminal lifestyle (by a need of income), telling Kate McReary and others that he wishes he could leave it behind, but often adds that he knows he can't.
Main Characters:
Grand Theft Auto IV is heavily influenced by Russian gangster movies, such as Brother , and its sequel, Brother 2 , and Niko Bellic's physical appearance is based on the character of Sasha, a Bulgarian sniper who works as a mercenary for the Bosnian-Serb Srpska paramilitary organization, from the movie Behind Enemy Lines .
Two episodes have been released for Grand Theft Auto IV for the Xbox 360, and then released for PlayStation 3 and PC in April 2010. The Lost and Damned was released on February 17, 2009, and features biker Johnny Klebitz as the player character. The Ballad of Gay Tony was been released on October 29, 2009, with Luis Fernando Lopez as the protagonist. It was simultaneously released with the disc version of Episodes from Liberty City, which features both games. These episodes are set in the same city and time as GTA IV , and have many overlapping storylines, characters, and missions. They add new missions, characters, vehicles, weapons, and other gameplay features.
Grand Theft Auto IV: The Complete Edition is the latest release of GTA IV on PC platforms that replaced the original game and its episodes on Steam , released on March 19, 2020 for Steam and Rockstar Games Launcher . The title was revealed by Rockstar Games on February 19th, after a month from GTA IV being removed from Steam on January 18th. Players who owned the previous version of GTA IV or its episodes automatically received GTA IV : Complete Edition with both games.
Rockstar Games reasoning behind pulling the game from Steam was due to Games For Windows Live , which was what was used on the Steam release of GTA IV for DRM and online multiplayer. The Games For Windows Live platform was no longer being supported by Microsoft and therefore wouldn't generate new game keys.
The following changes took place with this version:
Although nothing in the game specifically reveals the exact month the events of the game take place, most evidence suggests that it may take place between April and September.
Grand Theft Auto IV was developed by Rockstar North in conjunction with several other Rockstar studios.
Preliminary work on the game began in November 2004 , a month after the release of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . [ 2 ] Rockstar president Sam Houser felt that following up San Andreas was "a nightmare". [ 3 ] Rockstar North , the core 220-person team behind the game, co-opted studios owned by parent company Rockstar Games to facilitate development between a full team of over 1,000, [ 4 ] including 50 employees at Rockstar NYC, 40 at Rockstar Lincoln , 10 at Rockstar San Diego , and around 600–700 working part-time internally and externally. [ 5 ] Some key members of the development team worked 12-hour days during production, often without holidays. [ 4 ] The team decided to continue the numbering scheme absent from the previous two main games to represent the same leap in production as Grand Theft Auto 2 to Grand Theft Auto III . [ 2 ] Development of Grand Theft Auto IV ceased by 21 April 2008 when the game was submitted for manufacturing. [ 6 ] Producer Leslie Benzies estimated that the budget of the development efforts exceeded US$100 million, making Grand Theft Auto IV one of the most expensive video games ever made. [ 4 ]
The game's setting, Liberty City, is based on New York City. The team did not look at the previous renditions of Liberty City as inspiration, wanting it to retain the "general feel" but nothing else. [ 7 ] The map is roughly three times the size of 3D Universe rendition. The developers originally considered using the entire state of New York, before restricting it to Manhattan, and then expanding it out again. They considered including more suburbs with woods, and would regularly vote on which areas to include. [ 8 ] Art director Aaron Garbut said that the team chose the setting because of the detail and variety it provided, describing New York as "an amazing, diverse, vibrant, cinematic city". [ 9 ] Writer Dan Houser added that the team "wanted to be somewhere where we had a foothold" due to the amount of research required for the world; Rockstar Games' main headquarters are located in New York. [ 10 ] The team consciously avoided a precise recreation of New York City to allow for more enjoyable game design, selecting the areas that they felt "characterised it the best". [ 9 ] Garbut wanted to capture a caricature of the city as he felt that most people were familiar with "the highlights" from film or literature but did not need to know the areas precisely. [ 9 ] The city was not built with specific missions in mind; the area was created first, and missions implemented later. [ 11 ]
To achieve a realistic environment, 60–70 employees from Rockstar North travelled to New York for research: first at the beginning of the project in March or April 2005 for a week and a half, [ 8 ] and a smaller trip in 2007 . [ 7 ] Police officers who previously worked the beat drove the team around Washington Heights. [ 8 ] A full-time research team based in New York handled further requests for information, such as the ethnic minority of a neighbourhood or videos of traffic patterns. Videos shot in New York were played on televisions at the Rockstar North offices "so while they worked they could look up and there was New York". [ 8 ] Benzies claimed that the team took over 100,000 photographs on location in New York, [ 4 ] though Garbut estimates that they took around 250,000. [ 7 ] They also studied architectural plans for apartments, used satellite images to determine city block layout, researched sales figures for models of cars, and read books that detailed the city's infrastructure, including its subways, sewers, and garbage disposal. [ 12 ]
Dan Houser described Liberty City as "the biggest character" of the game. [ 9 ] The Grand Theft Auto IV rendition of Liberty City is more detailed and larger in size than most earlier entries in the series; although smaller than San Andreas , the setting of the previous main game, the developers considered it comparable in scope due to city's verticality, number of buildings, and level of detail. [ 13 ] The team wanted less dead spots and irrelevant spaces, such as the wide open deserts in San Andreas. They wanted the game to be "a more focused experience" than San Andreas, and Dan Houser felt that the limited activities of New York allowed this. [ 2 ] The team felt that the addition of Niko's mobile phone added to the immersion of the world and represented society's shifted focus on phones. [ 2 ] The in-game brands and products are designed over several years; the billboards were implemented in the game around six months prior to release. [ 7 ]
The game's script, written by Dan Houser and Rupert Humphries , is about 1,000 pages. [ 4 ] Approximately 660 actors provided voices for the game over 80,000 lines of dialogue. [ 8 ] After conceiving the character and setting, Dan Houser spoke with his brother Sam Houser and Leslie Benzies to bounce story ideas before writing a rough synopsis, a six-paged, detailed document. Once the synopsis was reworked, the designers broke it into missions, represented by a large flow document demonstrating each section. The writers then work on the introductions to the missions; the gameplay dialogue comes much later. Unlike previous Grand Theft Auto games, Grand Theft Auto IV does not have cinematic influences. "We were consciously trying to go, well, if video games are going to develop into the next stage, then the thing isn't to try and do a loving tribute or reference other stuff," said Dan Houser. He said that the writers wanted something "fresh and new and not something that was obviously derived from [a] movie". [ 10 ] Dan Houser felt that the quality of the writing had to improve alongside the advancements in graphics and technology. He noted that the improvements in facial animation allowed for slower-paced cutscenes. The unique dialogue that plays when a mission is retried was to ensure that the gameplay felt "less canned and less like Groundhog Day". [ 9 ]
Dan Houser described Niko Bellic as "a more rounded character" than those in previous games. He felt that his dual personality—often saving innocent people, while also being a "cold-hearted killer"—made him more relatable. He also felt that Niko's unfamiliarity with Liberty City allowed for the player to relate to him more, only driven by his vague past and relationship with Roman. When deciding on Niko's background, the writers felt that being an immigrant could lead to more dangerous situations, and therefore more enjoyable missions; after discussions with criminal experts, Dan Houser found that "the real scary characters are not born in America anymore". He felt that Niko's outsider view of American culture was "fun". [ 9 ] The team wanted Niko to be "more of an anti hero than a hero, capable of making positive actions within his criminal world". They wanted his demeanour to reflect the weight of his past and choices. [ 14 ]
Niko's design underwent a few changes, but was finalized early in development. [ 15 ] His outfit underwent several changes based on Eastern Europeans, particularly photographs of men fighting in winter wars in Yugoslavia and Chechnya. The primary motivation for the design was a face to convey the appropriate emotions and a body that could move nicely with the new animations. [ 9 ] The in-game purchasable outfits were also designed to fit with the character. [ 2 ] The team ensured that the gameplay choices presented to the player were not too extensive, as they still had to make sense to the character, who is driven by the people around him. Dan Houser felt that the missions in San Andreas had become too linear, and wanted to present choices to the player in Grand Theft Auto IV . [ 9 ]
The writers found that Niko needed a motivation to come to America, so they created his cousin, Roman Bellic . Dan Houser felt that the two could not be brothers as there would be a deeper level of familiarity than necessary. He described the two as a double act, with Roman's fantasist charm playing off Niko's tough cynicism. The team gave other non-playable characters (NPCs) more definable behaviours and dialogue to make them feel more alive. The writers initially considered having a smaller group of characters, but found that the story became boring and that players were less likely to explore the world. The stranger characters found in the game world were based on the "crazy people" that populate New York, according to Dan Houser, which in previous games were only able to be captured through radio stations or mild pedestrian behaviours. [ 7 ] The team based the ethnicities, clothing, and behaviours of the NPCs on the photographs and videos that they captured around New York, divided into different areas; [ 9 ] they created mood boards for each location. [ 7 ] The NPCs also converse in different languages. [ 8 ]
Grand Theft Auto IV sees a shift in the series to a more realistic and detailed style and tone, partly a result of the transition to consoles which offered high-definition graphics and the new and improved capabilities of such consoles. The development team worked to represent the upgrade in quality across all design aspects while maintaining the coherence of the previous games. The team took the game's development as an opportunity to "strip things back and start again", refining the art style without losing the style of the series; [ 9 ] they distanced the game from the "cartoon-like style" of its predecessors while creating a new style that was consistent across all aspects of the game. Garbut found the increased demand of detail brought on by the advanced technology daunting. A technique used to make the visuals look real was to avoid harsh edges, instead blending surfaces together to make the world look dirty and lived-in. The props department created multiple variations of different objects to make the world more interesting and unique. [ 9 ] Grand Theft Auto IV was the first contemporary game in the series since 2001's Grand Theft Auto III; the team felt that enough time had passed to avoid feeling repetitive. [ 2 ] The types of in-game vehicles were decided upon early in development, after which the vehicles department begin creating the designs. The vehicles are not based on specific real-life counterparts, but take elements from several, with some original ideas by the developers. [ 11 ]
The proprietary Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE) was used for the game. [ 16 ] Garbut found Grand Theft Auto IV 's technical design similar to Grand Theft Auto III 's, with both games being the first in the series to be released on their respective platforms. He claimed that an operable game engine was not finalised until late in development, at which point "there's still plenty of guesswork" until optimisation near release. [ 11 ] The character's physical performances were recorded using motion capture. Up to eight actors could perform on the motion capture stage at one time, each dressed in a full suit. The camera used to capture the performance included a teleprompter for the actors to read their scripts. [ 17 ] Over a hundred moves would be captured in each day of production. The final product was taken from different performances by different actors to make them appear seamless and appropriate. The voice work by one actor could be composited over a different actor's physical performance for a specific outcome. The in-game animations were crafted similarly, using a combination of different motion capture performances.
For the gameplay and animations, the team redid a lot of the work from previous games, wanting Grand Theft Auto IV to "feel next-generation". [ 9 ] The role-playing elements from San Andreas were removed fairly early in development, partly due to the animation work it would have required, and because consistently needing to visit the gym felt antithetical to Niko's motivations. The game's targeting system was one of the first focuses of development due to the advanced technology; the team wanted it to feel realistic without being too technical. The cover system was a "natural addition" to the targeting. [ 2 ] Benzies described the multiplayer as the hardest part of the game's development. [ 5 ] The team wanted the multiplayer to feel like an extension of the cinematic single-player experience. Dan Houser described it as "a section of a film rather than the whole narrative". The developers considered adding co-operative multiplayer to the main story campaign, but decided it worked better as a single-player experience. [ 2 ]
When Sam Houser first showed interest in using the Euphoria software in the game, he was told that it would be impossible or only limited to cutscenes, but some members of the team were able to make it work. Engineers from NaturalMotion worked on-site at Rockstar North for several months at a time to incorporate Euphoria software into the game. Rockstar also worked with Image Metrics for the game's facial animations. The facial rigs had around 100 joints, with a total of 300 minutes of facial animation. The scale of the project caused some issues for the animators, forcing them to have rigs completed before animation began. They also faced difficulty in the direction of the actor's head—either straight on when looking at the teleprompter, or down when looking at a script. Image Metrics head of production David Barton noted that "having realistic eyes is 90 percent of the battle", as it allows the player to believe the character. A head camera was used when recording to capture facial movements. [ 17 ] SpeedTree was used for in-game environment rendering. [ 18 ]
When selecting music for the in-game radio stations, music supervisor Ivan Pavlovich said "[we had] to pick the songs that make New York today what it is, but make sure they won't feel dated by the time the game comes out." [ 19 ] The developers contacted over 2,000 people in order to obtain recording and publishing rights; [ 20 ] they hired a private investigator to locate the relatives of late Skatt Bros. member Sean Delaney to license the band's song, "Walk the Night". [ 21 ] Billboard reported that Rockstar paid as much as $5,000 per composition and another $5,000 per master recording per track. [ 22 ] Developers originally considered letting players purchase music in an in-game record shop and for Niko to have an MP3 player, but both ideas were cut. [ 20 ] DJ Green Lantern produced tracks exclusively for the game's hip-hop radio station The Beat 102.7. [ 22 ] Record label owner and record producer Bobby Konders, who hosts the in-game radio station Massive B Soundsystem 96.9, flew to Jamaica to get dancehall artists to re-record tracks to make references to the boroughs of Liberty City. [ 22 ] The Housers' father, jazz musician Walter Houser, provided several classical music tracks for the game.
Upon release, Grand Theft Auto IV was met with overwhelmingly critical acclaim and commercial success.
IGN awarded the game with a perfect 10/10, with Hilary Goldstein of IGN feeling that the game "sets a new benchmark for open-world games".
GameSpot also awarded the game with a perfect 10/10; former GameSpot employee Jeff Gerstmann praised the narrative and the characters (more particularly, Niko himself) stating that he's "the only thing that mattered to him" as he progressed through the story, with the character becoming one of his favorite parts about GTA IV .
GamesRader+ awarded the game with a perfect 5 stars out of 5, ending their long review with the statement: "Not only does it go a long way to fixing the problems of previous games but it maintains a level of 'class' and true innovation that other game designers in this genre strive for but never quite reach."
GameInformer awarded the game with a perfect 10/10. Andrew Reiner said is his review that " Grand Theft Auto IV doesn't just raise the bar for the storied franchise; it completely changes the landscape of gaming. Once you play it, you won't look at video games the same way again."
Eurogamer and Edge awarded the game with a perfect 10/10.
Computer and Video Games awarded the game with a near-perfect 9.5/10.
1UP+.com awarded the game with a A+ ranking.
Metacritic awarded the game with 98/100 and it is to this day the highest rated Grand Theft Auto game in the series, and it is widely regarded by many as one of the greatest video games of all time .
In 2014, WatchMojo placed Grand Theft Auto IV at the #4 spot in their "Top 10 Grand Theft Auto Games" list countdown, and at the #1 spot in their "Every Grand Theft Auto Game Ranked" video over on their sister channel MojoPlays in 2021.
The PC version of Grand Theft Auto IV was met with the same critical acclaim as the consoles versions, albeit lower.
Metacritic awarded the game with 90/100, with reviewers praising the enhanced visuals and the new features while criticizing the port inferiority.
The addition of the Video Editor was met with positive reactions; GameSpot's Calvert called it "a great way to get creative", while Kieron Gillen of Eurogamer criticized the unpredictability in its timing.
Critics also praised the addition of the customizable radio station , which allows players to listen to their own choice of music; Tom Chick of 1UP.com named it the best feature of the port, and Steven Hopper of GameZone called it a "great touch".
The port's enhanced visuals were commended by many reviewers. GameZone's Hopper considered the visuals an improvement over the original versions. Andy Robinson of Computer and Video Games called the visuals "impressive", while Tom Orry of VideoGamer.com called them "superb". Conversely, the port's system requirements, considered difficult to run with advanced settings, received criticism. Eurogamer's Gillen said that, though the Windows version is "the most attractive version", it's "annoyingly fiddly to get there". GameSpy's Tuttle was able to overlook the demanding system requirements in exchange for the game's other features.
Grand Theft Auto IV has sold over 25 millions copies, and despite selling slightly worse then Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , it was still considered as a commercial blockbuster.
There was much controversy over Grand Theft Auto IV , continuing the tradition of controversy the series has always been associated with. Figures such as George Galloway, Jack Thompson and Hillary Clinton harshly criticised the game; Clinton's likeness would parodied in the Statue of Happiness . New York City officials were also perturbed by the game's New York-inspired setting, though said officials have been accused of hypocrisy as countless crime dramas and action films have taken place in the city years before GTA IV was released.
The initial Australian and New Zealand releases of GTA IV was pre-censored with blood and sex scenes toned down; a patch was later released which uncensored the Australian console versions.
A number of real-world crime incidents were also blamed on GTA IV , namely a crime spree perpetrated by a band of teenagers in New Hyde Park, New York in 2008, and on the same year, an attempted carjacking in Thailand where an 18-year-old student murdered a taxi driver which police captain Veerarit Pipatanasak stated that the student "wanted to find out if it was as easy in real life to rob a taxi as it was in the game", and when a 90-year-old woman in Slaughter, Louisiana was shot and killed by her eight-year old grandson after playing the game.
Little Lacy Surprise was criticized by some outlets for promoting paedophilia. Although similar mentions of sexual deviancy were alluded to in the series lore, in no way does the game encourage or put players in the role of a sex offender. Visiting the site would merely lead to an instant five-star wanted level, as a possible parody of law enforcement response and raids against suspected paedophiles.
The drunk driving elements also courted controversy, with Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) calling for the game to be rated Adults Only, which would have de facto banned the game (as console manufacturers do not allow AO-rated media from being published). Rockstar refuted MADD's accusations, stating "We have a great deal of respect for MADD's mission, but we believe the mature audience for Grand Theft Auto IV is more than sophisticated enough to understand the game's content."
Both the console and PC versions have had numerous updates and patches over the years.
In January 2020 , Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City were temporarily removed from Steam due to end of support of Microsoft 's Games for Windows Live platform. As a result, it became no longer possible to generate the additional keys needed to continue selling the PC version of the game. [ 23 ]
An updated single player-only release of Grand Theft Auto IV: The Complete Edition was released on March 16, 2020 on Steam and the Rockstar Games Launcher . Besides omitting multiplayer functionality, certain songs were also removed from the game due to expiring licenses.
Existing versions could be optionally patched to update the base GTA IV or standalone Episodes From Liberty City to the all-inclusive GTA IV: The Complete Edition .
Game Content
Game Features
Main Articles
September 17, 2013 September 17, 2013 October 10, 2013 July 17, 2025
September 17, 2013 September 17, 2013 October 10, 2013 July 17, 2025
November 18, 2014 November 18, 2014 December 11, 2014 July 17, 2025
November 18, 2014 November 18, 2014 December 11, 2014 July 17, 2025
July 17, 2025
July 17, 2025
July 17, 2025
Grand Theft Auto V (also known as Grand Theft Auto Five , GTA V [ 2 ] , GTA 5 , and Grand Theft Auto V: Story Mode [ 3 ] ) is a video game developed by Rockstar North . It is the fifteenth installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and the fifth game title in the HD Universe of the series.
The original edition was released on September 17, 2013 , for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 . The Xbox One and PlayStation 4 " enhanced " versions were released on November 18, 2014 , and was later released on April 14, 2015 , for the PC . A further " expanded and enhanced " version for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S released on March 15, 2022 . [ 4 ] It was made available for the PC on March 4, 2025 .
Optionally, players are also able to purchase access to Grand Theft Auto V as an add-on for the standalone versions of Grand Theft Auto Online .
As one of the most eagerly-awaited video game titles to be released in 2013, the game was widely anticipated prior to its release. Grand Theft Auto V was released to universal acclaim, holding scores of 96 and above on Metacritic and GameRankings , as well as receiving perfect scores from over 30 reviewers. It sold 11,210,000 copies and grossed $800,000,000 on the first day of release, setting many records, eventually making $1,000,000,000 within three days of the game's release.
As of March 2026, Grand Theft Auto V is the second best selling video game of all time , with over 220 million copies sold.
The original edition was officially announced on October 25, 2011 ; the game's first trailer [ 5 ] was released on November 2, 2011. The game was initially slated for a Spring 2013 release and there were even posters printed saying this but was actually released in the northern hemisphere Fall the same year. On July 15, 2013, Rockstar announced the Japanese release date for the game would be October 10, 2013, which ended up being almost a month after it was released in the Western world. [ 6 ] The "Enhanced" edition for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Personal Computer was announced on June 9, 2014, with pre-orders made available on June 10, 2014. An "expanded and enhanced" version for PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S was initially announced for "late 2021 " on June 11, 2020 and a firm release date of March 15, 2022 was announced on May 19, 2021.
The game takes place in the year 2013 in the southern part of the state of San Andreas , more precisely in the city of Los Santos and rural areas of Blaine County , and tells the stories of three protagonists : Michael De Santa , Franklin Clinton , and Trevor Philips — three uniquely-different criminals as they commit daring and (usually) profitable heists across the sprawling city of Los Santos.
It takes place about five years after the events of Grand Theft Auto IV , and eight years before the events of The Contract update of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Nine years after a failed robbery in the fictional town of Ludendorff , North Yankton , former bank robber Michael Townley and his family have relocated to Los Santos under a new identity. Michael is living a normal but stale life, until he encounters Franklin Clinton, a gangster who seeks to elevate himself in the Los Santos underworld, and unexpectedly encounters Trevor Philips, the only other survivor of the bank robbery in Ludendorff. The three join forces to carry out a daring task to rob the Union Depository and seize tens of millions of dollars worth of gold. However, the trio find themselves being taken advantage of by corrupt Feds, using the three to carry out their own agenda, as well as numerous confrontations with rival gangs and other criminals.
Grand Theft Auto Online is a standalone multiplayer game title, considered a separate game by Rockstar, that is included for free with the retail copy of Grand Theft Auto V for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X|S. In Grand Theft Auto Online , the player will have the freedom to explore alone or with friends, work cooperatively (PvE) to complete missions , band together to participate in activities and ambient events, or compete (PvP) in traditional game modes and in Free Mode with the entire community. Initially, the online game shared the same San Andreas map as Grand Theft Auto V . This was later expanded to include the island of Cayo Perico . The game shares some achievements and mechanics originally from GTA V .
In GTA Online , multiplayer crews from Max Payne 3 can be carried over to GTA Online . GTA Online has multiplayer features linked to Rockstar's Social Club . Sessions could accommodate up to sixteen people on the former PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 version, and thirty players on the current PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC versions.
A completely standalone version of GTA Online was released on March 15, 2022, and made exclusively free on PlayStation 5 for the first three months. Optionally, access to Grand Theft Auto V must be purchased separately as an add-on to the game.
To see a list of GTA V' s patch notes history, see Grand Theft Auto V/Title Update Notes
DLC have been released regularly since the launch of Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , adding new vehicles, weapons and other content. They are however more advanced in GTA Online with the availability of jobs and properties along with additional character customization options like tattoos, clothing, masks, hairstyles etc.
Additional content is unlocked if the player buys the Collector's Edition of GTA V . It features a classic hot rod , a sports bike , an electric sports car , a shotgun and a hammer . This is available when the Collector's Edition is installed.
All subsequent content updates focus on GTA Online , and no content has been implemented in GTA V in updates that followed the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 update.
Aerial shot of a Shamal flying high over Southern San Andreas.
Pillbox Hill , Downtown Los Santos . Many real-life Los Angeles buildings are accurately replicated throughout Los Santos and Blaine County.
On November 3, 2011, Rockstar Games confirmed that the game would take place in Los Santos and the surrounding countryside - and will not feature a recreated rendition of an entire State of San Andreas – in a statement on their Newswire:
During the Game Informer Grand Theft Auto V cover story, the vice president of creativity for Rockstar Games, Dan Houser , has stated that Los Santos this time around is different and a lot more developed (having cities, wilderness, deserts, farmlands, towns, a Mount Chiliad , a military base and a fully detailed ocean floor (including coral beds). The state of San Andreas is also about five times larger than Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto IV , and Red Dead Redemption . After some calculations by members of GawdAlmighty.com , that would equal to around 27.5 square miles/71.2 km 2 when land and sea are put together. [ 7 ]
A screenshot featuring the game's playable characters. From left to right: Franklin, Trevor and Michael.
Grand Theft Auto V features three playable protagonists: Michael De Santa , Trevor Philips and Franklin Clinton .
Michael is a retired professional bank robber, who after making a sweet deal with the FIB , is forced out of retirement back into the life of crime.
Trevor is the loose cannon in this story and is also the long time best friend of Michael and a hothead psychopath as well.
Lastly Franklin, a younger gangbanger and repossession agent who has a large amount of experience behind the wheel, who meets Michael while repoing his car.
Other main characters include Amanda , Michael's wife; Jimmy and Tracey , Michael's two grown-up children; Lamar , Franklin's closest friend; Ron , Trevor's paranoid friend; and Lester , a long-time associate of Michael and Trevor.
Although it is not specifically stated when exactly in 2013 the game takes place, the following evidence suggests August - October 2013:
Prior to the announcement of the eighth generation consoles and PC versions, there was wide speculation and anticipation regarding an official announcement from Rockstar. On change.org, there was a petition with 728,000+ signatures asking for a PC version at the time of the announcement. Within the comments section of the Rockstar Newswire, and many other GTA related blogs, there were many comments asking for a PC/Next Gen release. After its reveal at E3 2014, the news spread like wildfire and became one of the most talked-about announcements.
The enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto V was released on November 18, 2014, for the PS4 and Xbox One and was released for PC on April 14, 2015. With the release, there are many improvements and changes compared to the versions released on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. No major graphical changes from PS4 and Xbox One are seen in the PC version, other than further Draw Distance and 4K capable quality. The PC version also features two exclusive radio stations: The Lab (now available for all consoles from the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 update) and Self Radio .
The biggest new feature was a first-person view , which is not only available in vehicles but is also for the first time available on foot. Several other features were added. These include (see edition comparison table for more information):
Several new loading screen artworks .
These are all the hobbies and pastimes listed on the Rockstar Social Club page; note that they are not all mandatory to achieve 100% completion in the game.
Grand Theft Auto V - Trailer 2
Trailer #2.
Grand Theft Auto V Michael. Franklin. Trevor.
Protagonists trailer.
Grand Theft Auto V Official Gameplay Video
Official Gameplay trailer.
Grand Theft Auto V The Official Trailer
Official trailer.
GTA 5 - Xbox 360 TV Spot
Xbox 360 TV spot.
Grand Theft Auto V -- Coming for PlayStation®4, Xbox One and PC this Fall
Next-Gen trailer.
Grand Theft Auto V “A Picket Fence and a Dog Named Skip”
Second PC and Next-Gen trailer.
Grand Theft Auto V was developed by Rockstar North in collaboration with most other Rockstar studios around the world.
Rockstar North began to develop Grand Theft Auto V in 2008 , around Grand Theft Auto IV 's release. [ 9 ] Development was conducted by a team of more than 1,000 people from studios around the world. The proprietary Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE) was overhauled for the game to improve its draw distance rendering capabilities. The Euphoria and Bullet software handle additional animation and rendering tasks. [ 10 ] Having become familiar with the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 hardware over time, Rockstar found they were able to push the consoles' graphical capabilities further than in previous games. [ 11 ] Analyst estimations place the game's combined development and marketing budget at more than £170 million (US$265 million), which would make it the most expensive game ever made at that time. [ 12 ]
The open world was modelled on Southern California and Los Angeles , and its design and in-game render constituted much of the game's early work. [ 13 ] Key members of the game world production team took field research trips throughout the region and documented their research with photo and video footage. [ 11 ] Google Maps projections of Los Angeles were used by the team to help design Los Santos' road networks. [ 14 ] To reflect and reproduce Los Angeles' demographic spread, the developers studied census data and watched documentaries about the city. The team considered creating the open world the most technically demanding aspect of the game's production. [ 15 ]
A fundamental design goal from the outset was to innovate on the series core structure by giving players control of three lead protagonists instead of one. [ 13 ] The idea was first raised during Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ' development, but contemporaneous hardware restrictions made it infeasible. [ 9 ] Having developed two Grand Theft Auto IV episodic expansion packs featuring new protagonists in 2009 , the team wanted to base Grand Theft Auto V around three simultaneously controlled protagonists. The team viewed it as a spiritual successor to many of their previous games (such as Grand Theft Auto IV , Red Dead Redemption and Max Payne 3 ), and designed it to improve upon their gameplay mechanics. [ 16 ] They sought to improve the action gameplay by refining the shooting mechanics and cover system [ 17 ] and reworked the driving mechanics to correct Grand Theft Auto IV 's awkward vehicle controls.
After an audition process, Ned Luke , Shawn Fonteno and Steven Ogg were selected to portray Michael, Franklin and Trevor, respectively. [ 18 ] Their performances were mostly recorded using motion capture technology [ 19 ] , but dialogue for scenes with characters seated in vehicles was recorded in studios instead. [ 20 ] The game features an original score composed by a team of producers collaborating over several years. [ 21 ] Licensed music provided by an in-game radio is also used. [ 22 ] The team licensed more than 241 tracks shared between fifteen radio stations, with an additional two stations providing talk radio. Some of the tracks were written specifically for the game, such as rapper and producer Flying Lotus ' original work composed for the FlyLo FM radio station he hosts. [ 23 ]
The Weapon Wheel , an entirely new mechanism appearing in GTA V , serving as a quicker alternative to cycle through weapons.
Grand Theft Auto V evolves nearly every mechanic that was in the previous Grand Theft Auto games. As far as driving goes, the vehicles have been greatly improved, with Rockstar running more complex physics on them, such as making some cars hold to the ground slightly better. The driving mechanics feel more like a racing game, particularly the Midnight Club series, compared to Grand Theft Auto IV 's rocky, boat-like handling system. The shooting mechanics are better in terms of the feel of the mechanics and larger compared to the melee mechanics in the game, that being said, melee has been improved over the previous titles as well. Weapon selection has now also been changed. Instead of the old way of selecting through all the weapons sequentially, there is now a Weapon Wheel , which is similar to the one featured in Red Dead Redemption , another game made by Rockstar Games. Grand Theft Auto V draws inspirations from many different Rockstar titles in the past, including Max Payne 3 , Midnight Club , Manhunt , and Red Dead Redemption .
Switch Scene cutscene . Each of the three protagonists are living their own lives while the player acts the part of another.
There are many unique features in the game; one being that when the players are playing as one of three protagonists in the game, the other two are living their independent daily lives, and the player may be surprised by what they find the characters doing when they switch back into them. Another unique feature is that the character swapping feature is executed in a Google Earth -styled manner and was displayed during a Game Informer demo, which was shown to have run smoothly and without lag. The PC , PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions present an exclusive feature, the first-person mode , where the whole game can be played through the eyes of the protagonist. This gameplay mode presents a whole new way to play the game. Cars have detailed interiors different from one another; shooting is like that of a dedicated FPS game.
Yoga , a new activity appearing in GTA V .
New activities have been added, such as yoga , triathlons , jet skiing, parachuting , tennis , golf , and scuba diving . Random events have also been added to the game and can appear anytime as the player explores around the map. The mobile phone has returned from Grand Theft Auto IV and is used for calling the player's contacts, surfing the web, and quick saving. Giving people the middle finger is another new feature the player can use while in a vehicle. Rockstar recommended that the player do this in various locations around Los Santos to see the outcome; depending on where the player is at, they will get varied reactions from pedestrians.
Rockstar has also made changes to the pedestrian mechanics; some pedestrians can be seen at the bus stops in East Los Santos , and the same people can reappear in Rockford Hills working in the gardens of the opulent mansions. Some minor mechanics that help convey the environment and appearance of Los Santos occur at certain times of day, such as a sprinkler system being turned on in the morning in wealthy areas like Morningwood .
Grand Theft Auto V has the widest range of super cars to date, as well as the greatest number of vehicles, in the entire GTA series. The Cheetah is one of the few vehicles to appear in the majority of GTA games.
Grand Theft Auto V has more vehicles than in any other Grand Theft Auto game to date, with a variety of vehicles, including aeroplanes, helicopters, cars, utility vehicles, emergency service vehicles, motorcycles, and jet skis. Players are able to fly planes, which was a cut feature from Grand Theft Auto IV because of the limited size of the map, but the feature is now available in Grand Theft Auto V because of the much larger, open world map. There are also submarines that players are able to use to explore the depths of the Pacific Ocean . The Rhino from previous GTA titles has returned, including a new complex aiming system and a realistic depiction of a tank. A new feature also allows the player to roll-over a vehicle when the car is flipped upside down.
An NPC Boxville pulling out of an alleyway.
Like all previous games, a wide array of vehicles spawn driving around the map that can be stolen. To give the game a sense of realism and make the map feel more alive, various vehicles (as well as pedestrians) spawn in scenarios to make them more interactive with the map, such as delivery vans pulling out of alleyways, emergency vehicles responding, or vehicles pulling in and out of driveways. This behaviour was present in GTA IV to a lesser extent and is revamped in GTA V , even more so with the enhanced release of the game, where modified vehicles can spawn driving around, as well as the presence of the fully-controllable Jet , among other planes flying high above San Andreas .
Businesses from Grand Theft Auto IV re-appear. New businesses also appear, such as the Bugstars pest control company, who specialise in fumigation and the fast-food restaurant, Up-n-Atom Burger . The option to eat takeaway food from outlets such as Burger Shot is no longer available. Instead, the player can only buy drinks from the various vending machines across the map.
The weapon wall at Ammu-Nation , home to 66 individual weapons.
The game features a large variety of weapons, including assault rifles, machine guns, handguns, shotguns, sniper rifles and rocket launchers. There is now the option to mount attachments onto various different guns, each one affecting the performance. Melee weapons like the nightstick and the golf club that weren't present in Grand Theft Auto IV have also been introduced to Grand Theft Auto V .
Clothing can be changed at a range of different clothes stores.
In the game, the player has the option to customize the three protagonists' wardrobe and appearance. There is less customisation available compared to that of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (e.g. changing the body mass of the three characters isn't available as it was with Carl Johnson in GTA San Andreas ). The availability of tattoo parlours, barber shops and the ability to apply and remove facial hair has returned from GTA San Andreas after being missing from previous titles in the HD Universe .
Upon release, Grand Theft Auto V received overwhelmingly universal acclaim and commercial blockbuster worldwide. Critics enjoyed the multiple lead character formula, heist mission design and presentation, while some critics weren't fond of the story and characters.
Metacritic awarded the game with 97/100, making it the second highest rated Grand Theft Auto game in the series and the 11th highest rated game of all time.
Play awarded the game with a 97/100, they considered it as a "generation-defining" and "exceptional" Grand Theft Auto game in the series.
Famitsu awarded the game with 40/40, making it the second western-developed game to received a perfect score from Japan .
IGN awarded the game with a perfect 10/10, Keza MacDonald of IGN called Grand Theft Auto V in his review as "one of the very best video games ever made".
Edge awarded the game with a prefect 10/10, they wrote in their review that GTA V is a "remarkable achievement" in open-world design and storytelling.
GameInformer awarded the game with a near perfect 9.75/10, Matt Bertz really enjoyed the combat in GTA V , noteing that players are kept "in the thick of the action" during shootouts.
Eurogamer awarded the game with 9/10, Tom Bramwell of Eurogamer wasn't keen on the protagonists (more particularly Trevor) as he found him as "shallow and unconvincing", and felt that his eccentricities hurt the narrative and overshadowed Michael and Franklin's character development.
GameSpot awarded the game with 9/10, former GameSpot employee Jeff Gerstmann considered the heist missions a welcome deviation from series typical mission structure and Carolyn Petit of GameSpot cited the 1995 film Heat as a stylistic influence on the heists mission design.
GamesRadar+ awarded the game with a perfect 5 stars out of 5, Hollander Cooper of GamesRadar+ said in his review that the story and the characters was the weakest part of the game, as he thought the game negated inconsistencies in the story of previous entries, whose single lead protagonists had muddled morality.
Joystiq awarded the game with a near perfect 4.5 stars out of 5.
The Escapist were the least fond towards GTA V , awarding the game with a 3.5 stars out of 5, Greg Tito had difficulty connecting with the characters' emotions since they acted out of greed with no sense of morality and thus gave players little reason to support them.
In 2014, WatchMojo placed GTA V at the #2 spot in their "Top 10 Grand Theft Auto Games" list countdown, and at the #3 spot in their "Every Grand Theft Auto Game Ranked" video over on their sister channel MojoPlays in 2021.
Grand Theft Auto V has sold over 220 million copies as of late 2025, making it the best selling Grand Theft Auto game in the series and the second best selling video game of all time.
Like all previous Grand Theft Auto games, Grand Theft Auto V has courted controversy, though has been viewed by some as significantly more controversial than its predecessors.
A mission which requires the player to torture a target for the government has proven significantly controversial. The mission contains water-boarding, using a wrench on kneecaps and genitals, electrocution, and even an action where the player can perform tooth extraction using pliers.
Both Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online received criticism. One part was missions, as only three made the player profit, and only one of them topped $ 1,000,000. Missions were longer, more taxing and low to non-paying. Only seven non-heist missions gave a payout; Franklin and Lamar gave the player $250, Nervous Ron gave the player $62,000 and Lester's Assassinations gave the player varying amounts of between $3,000 and $10,000. The PC version of GTA V was also criticized for the lack of an adequate anti-cheat with modders becoming prevalent in Grand Theft Auto Online and being dealt with very little, in addition to Rockstar Games ' lack of efficiency in dealing with an ongoing modder problem and banning legitimate, non-cheating players instead. [ ref? ref? Subsection needs a source for verification. (January 2019) ]
The ongoing success and continued development of Grand Theft Auto Online , which resulted in the game being the first to span three generations of game consoles without a subsequent GTA title being released, has been a common complaint for those anticipating announcement of a possible "Grand Theft Auto VI" , until the announcement of the game on February 4th 2022.
After the game was released, actress Lindsay Lohan claimed that Rockstar had used her likeness without permission for in-game celebrity Lacey Jonas , which Rockstar denied. [ 24 ] On 1 September 2016, Lohan's lawsuit was dismissed. [ 25 ]
In October 2013, Daz Dillinger claimed Rockstar used two songs from Death Row Records without permission, the songs in question being "C-Walk" by Kurupt and " Nothin' But the Cavi Hit " by Tha Dogg Pound and Mack 10 . However, Dillinger was not signed to Death Row at the time and had an ongoing feud with Kurupt. The lawsuit was eventually dropped and the songs stayed in the game. [ ref? ref? Paragraph needs a news source for verification. (January 2019) ]
On September 17, 2022, [ 26 ] a user known as 'teapotuberhacker' has illegally obtained access to Rockstar's Slack channel [ 27 ] and their internal Perforce Helix Core server [ 28 ] , and stole, respectively, developer footage of Grand Theft Auto VI and an unknown amount of development assets, documents, and the source code of Grand Theft Auto V ; the former of which have been published by the hacker on September 18, 2022 . Although the hacker has published snippets of the Grand Theft Auto V source code on GTAForums , no files have been publicly leaked at that time.
On November 15, 2022, a user on GitHub known as 'gta-source' [ 29 ] published a repository of 53 files from the source code leak, primarily related to the documentation of the game's native script commands . The repository has been taken down a day later following a DMCA notice by Take-Two Interactive . [ 30 ]
On November 19, 2023, an executable alongside its corresponding .pdb (program database) file was leaked in a Discord server. [ vague vague Needs name of server, it was public enough that anyone could freely join. ] This file originated from the files stolen in September 2022 [ 31 ] and has later been removed from the server after the files have began to be publicly reposted.
On December 24, 2023, over 16GB of internal source code was leaked online. [ vague vague who and where? ] The archive contained leaked source code for the game itself as well as RAGE , source script files, and hundreds of studio tools. The leak was considered to be one of the most substantial gaming leaks, alongside GTA VI 's September 2022 leaked footage . [ 32 ]
The next day, an archive containing 14GB of various art assets, documents, and developer tutorial videos was leaked. [ vague vague who and where? ] Like the source code leak, this has also been a part of the September 2022 breach. [ 26 ]
As with the GTA VI leaks, Take-Two Interactive issued a takedown notice on any redistribution of the source code, including hyperlinks to third-party websites redistributing the leak and guides to compile a working copy of the game. [ 33 ] Rockstar Games did not acknowledge the leaks.
An early prototype of Xbox 360 downloadable content (DLC) packs was accidently left unsecured on Xbox Live Arcade's PartnerNET, an internal Microsoft platform that allowed developers to access and test upcoming downloadable content and titles. This incident occurred on July 13, 2013, just prior to the release of Grand Theft Auto V . [ 34 ] Although initially ruled as fake, the files reemerged on October 21st, 2024. [ vague vague where? ] The leak primarily featured unused weapons , along with an initial version of the Atomic Blimp . [ 35 ] Each weapon was packaged separately, and with the exception of the Atomic Blimp DLC [ 36 ] and Assault Sniper DLC [ 37 ] , they employed an older coding structure akin to that of Grand Theft Auto IV , necessitating manual adjustments for functionality. The other prototype DLC packs included:
The idea was later turned into Special/Collector's Edition bonus.
Grand Theft Auto VI [ 5 ] is an upcoming video game, scheduled for release on November 19, 2026, [ 2 ] which will be published by Rockstar Games . [ 6 ] It is due to be the seventeenth installment in the Grand Theft Auto series, and the seventh HD Universe title of the series. The game's official name was revealed in the first trailer on December 4, 2023, at 6:00PM US Eastern Time.
The story is expected to follow criminal duo Lucia Caminos and Jason Duval . The game is expected to take place in the HD Universe . [ 3 ]
The game takes place in several counties in the State of Leonida , including Vice-Dale County (home to the neon-soaked streets of Vice City ).
To date, five counties have been identified by name via trailers and promotional material. The entire playable area of Leonida has yet to be officially revealed.
Announced by Rockstar on June 24th, 2026, with the possibility to pre-order them starting the next day. [ 7 ] The two editions are:
Pre-orders of either version of the game (or purchases made before November 20, 2026) came bundled with a month of GTA+ and the Vintage Vice City Pack .
Note that only the Standard Edition comes with a code in a box, while both editions are sold digitally. [ 12 ]
The game was first confirmed to be under active development by Rockstar Games on February 4, 2022 , with a promise to provide more details in the future. [ 13 ] On July 7, 2022, in a further post on their Newswire, Rockstar confirmed that over the past few years, they had steadily been moving more resources and staff " towards the next entry in the Grand Theft Auto series - understanding more than ever the need to exceed players’ expectations and for this next entry to be the best it can possibly be ". [ 14 ] Development was confirmed to still be active development by two quarterly earnings calls by Take-Two Interactive on August 8, 2022 and May 17, 2023. Take-Two asserted that Rockstar Games was "determined to set creative benchmarks for the series, industry and entertainment. [ 15 ] In the May 17th call, Take-Two also confirmed that they were expecting to release a number of "ground-breaking titles" in Fiscal Year 2025 which will "allow us to achieve over $8 billion in Net Bookings", which a portion of the GTA community believed to be a soft confirmation of the game's general release timeline. [ 16 ]
With the release of the game's first trailer on December 4, 2023, the game's official name, Grand Theft Auto VI , was finally confirmed. [ 5 ] Shortly after the trailer's release, Take-Two Games published their acclamation on Rockstar Games' upcoming 2025 release. [ 6 ] Several variants of the game's logomark were trademarked on the United States Patent and Trademark Office website on December 4 and 5, 2023. [ 17 ] [ 18 ]
On May 16, 2024, Take-Two Interactive narrowed the release date of GTA VI from Fiscal Year 2025 to the Fall of Calendar Year 2025 in their Q4 Earnings Presentation. [ 19 ] This date would be solidified by later Q1, Q2, and Q3 Earnings Presentations. [ 20 ] [ 21 ] [ 22 ] With the release of the Q3 presentation on February 6, 2025, Take-Two CEO Strauss Zelnick also added in an IGN interview that he and Rockstar Games felt "really good" about the Fall 2025 release window. [ 23 ] However, approximately two weeks before the Q4 presentation, the game was delayed and given a fixed release date of May 26, 2026. This release date would be further pushed to November 19 of the same year, with Rockstar Games giving the reason that "these extra months will allow us to finish the game with the level of polish you have come to expect and deserve".
The first official announcement for the next Grand Theft Auto title was in February 2022, on the Rockstar Newswire. [ 13 ] On November 8, 2023, in a thank you post celebrating Rockstar Games' 25th anniversary, Rockstar confirmed that the first trailer for the upcoming Grand Theft Auto game would be released in "early December" of the same year. [ 24 ]
On December 1, 2023, Rockstar further confirmed that the first trailer for the upcoming Grand Theft Auto game would be released on December 5, 2023 at 9:00 AM US Eastern Time. [ 25 ] A one-time overlay appeared on Rockstar's official website, featuring palm trees against a sunset backdrop, with the trailer date and time displayed. Subsequent to the trailer announcement, Rockstar Games concealed all previous posts on their Instagram feed.
The first trailer for Grand Theft Auto VI was released on December 4, 2023. The trailer was scheduled for a December 5 YouTube Premiere, but less than 16 hours before Trailer 1's scheduled release, the trailer was leaked online. [ 26 ] Almost immediately, Rockstar Games brought ahead the trailer's release, and shortlisted the YouTube Premiere at 6:00 PM US Eastern Time on December 4. [ 27 ]
The trailer amassed over 90 million video views within its first 24 hours, making it the second most viral YouTube video of all time. [ 28 ] In just over 6 months, the YouTube upload reached 200 million views. [ 29 ] Little further information on the game would be released until the announcement of the game's delay in May 2025.
Grand Theft Auto VI is now set to release on May 26, 2026.
We are very sorry that this is later than you expected. The interest and excitement surrounding a new Grand Theft Auto has been truly humbling for our entire team. We want to thank you for your support and your patience as we work to finish the game.
With every game we have released, the goal has always been to try and exceed your expectations, and Grand Theft Auto VI is no exception. We hope you understand that we need this extra time to deliver at the level of quality you expect and deserve.
We look forward to sharing more information with you soon.
On May 2, 2025, Rockstar Games announced that the game would release on May 26, 2026, pushing back the initial anticipated release of Fall 2025. [ 30 ] This announcement would later be accompanied by the release of the game's second trailer on May 6, [ 31 ] alongside a complete refresh of the GTA VI section of the Rockstar Games website.
Across all video platforms, the second trailer amassed over 475 million video views within its first 24 hours, with its YouTube upload alone reaching 84 million views in the first 24 hours. [ 32 ] Music streaming platform Spotify also reported that the main featured music track in the trailer, "Hot Together" by The Pointer Sisters, had a 182,000% increase in streams after the trailer's debut. [ 32 ]
On November 6, 2025, Rockstar Games announced that Grand Theft Auto VI would be further delayed to November 19, 2026, citing that "these extra months will allow us to finish the game with the level of polish you have come to expect and deserve". [ 2 ]
On June 18, 2026, Rockstar revealed the cover art for the game on various platforms and announced that pre-orders would begin on June 25th. [ 33 ]
On June 24, 2026, the promotional site was updated to include new information about the game, including the Ultimate Edition and the Vintage Vice City Pack, with the latter being included in every pre-order. Take-Two subsequently revealed that players would be able to download the game a week before the official release date. [ 34 ]
The game has been subject to several major leaks during its development, beginning with the most significant of those in September 2022 , wherein download links to over 90 video clips and screenshots of the game's development were posted on GTAForums.com . Three further major leaks of gameplay footage have since occurred: in December 2023 , when a TikTok account claiming a connection to a high-ranking Rockstar North employee posted a brief phone recording of a 360-degree pan over Interstate 97 in Vice City; in January 2025 , when a photograph and two videos of a PlayStation 5 development kit running the game were uploaded to Reddit ; and in November 2025 , when a demo reel from a former Rockstar Toronto character animator, originally uploaded to Vimeo on September 3, 2025, was found to contain multiple clips of new character animations involving two in-game vehicles.
Numerous fabricated leaks of the game's footage, often created using 3D modeling software or AI-generated techniques, have also circulated online, attracting widespread attention from both social media and gaming publications.
On February 25, 2024, the canvas for Anita Ward 's " Ring My Bell " on Spotify was replaced with the GTA VI logo, leading many people to believe the song was to be used in the game's second trailer . [ 35 ] The change went viral on social media, leading to Anita's management dismissing the claims via Spotify several days later. [ 36 ]
On September 7, 2024, Martyn Ware , founder of the English synth-pop band Heaven 17 , claimed members had been offered $7,500 each by Rockstar Games to use their hit song " Temptation " in the game, including a buyout of any future royalties earned from the game. [ 37 ] [ 38 ] He later claimed to have made a counter-offer, which Rockstar refused. The post caused outrage online, with many claiming that they "made a bad decision", while others claimed he "did good" by refusing the offer. [ 39 ]
Official Grand Theft Auto VI logo.
Monochrome variant without the GTA wordmark.
Grand Theft Auto VI will now release on Thursday, November 19, 2026.
Temporary website overlay alongside the trailer announcement.
Naturally excited about the immense wealth that was about to head my way, I scrolled to the bottom of the email re the offer...
IT WAS $7500 - for a buyout of any future royalties from the game - forever...
To put this in context, Grand Theft Auto 6 grossed, wait for it...
$8.6 BILLION
Ah, but think of the exposure…
Fall Guys announcement image from December 1, 2023.
Halo announcement image from December 1, 2023.
November 4, 2005 July 27, 2007
June 22, 2006 September 6, 2006
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories is the fifth game (the fourth chronologically) in the 3D Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series. It was the first GTA game released for the PlayStation Portable . Set in Liberty City in 1998 , it is a prequel to the events of Grand Theft Auto Advance and Grand Theft Auto III , and the chronological sequel to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . The game was later ported for the PlayStation 2 , Apple iOS , and Android OS .
A unique aspect of the game is that its setting, Liberty City, is not only the same as the earlier Grand Theft Auto III , but the general layout of the city has remained virtually unchanged (except for some key differences due to GTA Liberty City Stories taking place three years earlier than GTA III ). As such, players familiar with Liberty City as it appeared in GTA III have an advantage of already being familiar with much of the geography (likewise, players following the games chronologically who move on to GTA III will also be familiar with the layout).
Toni Cipriani's boss Salvatore Leone of the Leone Family introduces Toni to the family's capo Vincenzo Cilli and persuades Toni do some work for him. Later Vincenzo informs Toni that former Leone member, now Sindacco Crime Family bartender Joseph Daniel O'Toole or "JD", wants to rejoin the Leones and explains that they will use JD as an inside man. Vincenzo's final request to Toni is to pick up his car but is a police ambush set up by Vincenzo. Toni escapes the police and cuts his ties with Vincenzo. Toni begins to do some work for JD to pay off JD's debt to Toni and to further disrupt the Sindaccos. Toni returns to see his Ma and does some work for her to prove himself to her such as taking an embarrassing photo of Giovanni Casa , taking out some Triad shipments, racing and killing Sucho and murdering Casa at the sawmill. Ma is still not impressed and calls a hit on Toni, though Toni survives the hit and escapes.
Toni starts to do some more work for Salvatore by persuading union boss Jane Hopper to obey Salvatore's demands. Salvatore's wife Maria Latore then blackmails Toni to work for her to get her and Toni out of trouble and later does a deal with the Cartel for Salvatore. Toni does some more work for JD who soon explains that the Sicilian Mafia are trying to broker a peace between the families.
However, Salvatore smells a rat and wants someone to follow the Sicilian boss Massimo Torini . Toni follows Torini's chopper and overhears a conversation between Torini and the Diablos promising them Hepburn Heights if they help the Sicilians. Toni continues following Torini and hears a conversation between Torini and the Triads promising them they will be taken care of if they co-operate with the Sicilians. However, the Triads spot Toni and Torini escapes in his chopper. JD informs Toni that he is going to be made and Mickey Hamfists joins Toni and JD to the ceremony in Harwood .
Instead of a ceremony however, Hamfists executes JD and explains to Toni that Salvatore could not trust JD as he could turn on the Leones sooner or later. Toni drives Hamfists home and dumps JD's body. Vincenzo soon calls and request Toni to meet him at the freighter, Toni at first refuses but agrees after Vincenzo apologizes for his actions. Toni goes there only to find it a trap set by Vincenzo where he kills Vincenzo and all his men.
Salvatore soon informs Toni that the Leones are being pressured by the Triads and Diablos. Toni then pushes them back before traveling with Salvatore to Staunton after Salvatore explains that Mayor Roger C. Hole is going to blame Salvatore for everything and Toni later kills Mayor Hole and takes his cell phone to Salvatore. After doing all this Toni becomes a made man in the Leones having Ma call that hit off Toni. Salvatore soon explains that the Forellis had Mayor Hole in their pocket and there is a new election for mayor and that their candidate Donald Love is competing Miles O'Donovan for mayor.
Toni helps Donald on Salvatore's orders combat O'Donovan's efforts. Salvatore and Toni later kidnap Mayor Hole's assistant where he reveals that the Sicilian Mafia controlled both Franco Forelli and the Forelli Family, wanting a war between the mob families where they would take over after the dust settles. Toni later helps Salvatore and the Leone family weaken the Forellis to help gain domination. Toni later does some work for Leone family corrupt cop Leon McAffery in weakening the Forellis and Sindaccos and helping the Yardies and later helps the reverend with the Liberty Tree article by helping it grow in fame. The reverend is discovered to be Liberty Tree reporter Ned Burner .
Love soon tells Toni that O'Donovan has links between him and Salvatore which is destroyed by Toni even though his revealed friendship with Love causes him to lose the election. Salvatore is later arrested by O'Donovan and Toni takes revenge on the Forellis for it. Salvatore soon reveals that Sindacco Family leader Paulie Sindacco helped the Forellis and the Sicilians put Salvatore in prison and Toni kills Paulie before he can escape by sea. Toni does one last favor for Salvatore by destroying a Yakuza tank in their lockup.
Love soon calls Toni and requests to meet him at his Flop-House. There he explains that he has a plan to get his wealth back and needs the plans for Fort Staunton from his former mentor Avery Carrington . Toni kills Avery and obtains the plans but is witnessed by Ned Burner and is killed by Toni on orders from Donald Love. Both corpses are obtained by Toni and taken to Avery's plane. Meanwhile, Toshiko Kasen hires Toni to work against her husband, Kazuki Kasen , the leader of the Yakuza, by stealing their weapons, decimating their finances and revealing his ties to Toshiko.
Kazuki then decides to kill Toshiko and Toni, but is murdered by Toni before he can do so and Toshiko commits suicide to be "truly free". Soon Love introduces Toni to 8-Ball and they annihilate the Fort Staunton district. Love then hides out in the Cartel mansion from the Colombian Cartel and escapes the city with Toni's help. Soon Salvatore reveals to Toni that he is being bailed out of prison but the Sicilians don't want that to happen so they can take over and Salvatore's convoy safely makes it to the court house with Toni's help.
Finally, Torini decides to kidnap O'Donovan to stop Salvatore's charges from being dropped. Salvatore and Toni chase Torini to Portland Rock where Toni slays Torini, ending the crisis. Salvatore then reveals to Toni that Torini was the underboss and his elderly uncle was the boss. They have a meeting with him at Momma's Restaurant, where Uncle Leone admits defeat at the very end, and decides to return to Sicily in peace. Salvatore then thanks Toni for his effort and loyalty.
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories was developed by Rockstar Leeds in collaboration with Rockstar North .
As stated in an IGN preview, "Rockstar dropped RenderWare in favor of a brand new in-house engine to best utilize the resolution, texture density and particle effects of the PSP". [ 1 ] Until the release of GTA Liberty City Stories , RenderWare had been the game engine behind every game in the 3D Universe (excluding Grand Theft Auto Advance ). GTA Liberty City Stories used Image Metrics for the game's facial animations.
When asked about how they crammed the whole game onto just 1.8GB UMD, Rockstar Leeds studio director Gordon Hall commented "Lots of hard work and attention to detail. Every asset in the game had to be trimmed to the bare essentials. The team at Rockstar North has been involved every step of the way and they had some very clever compression techniques they'd used in Vice City and San Andreas that the team here heavily optimized for PSP in order to get all the various assets onto the disc. Without the code there would have been no way for us to get 10 full radio stations in the game with everything else." [ 2 ]
Commenting on how data streaming worked in GTA Liberty City Stories compared to GTA San Andreas , Hall added "There were some fundamental changes to the way streaming is accomplished to minimise the reliance on the disk. With the help of Rockstar North, we painstakingly organized data on the disk such that the game can pull off information in chunks. The actual streams are pulled in bursts, allowing us to only spin up the disc occasionally." [ 2 ]
Speaking about the technical aspects of adding online multiplayer for the first time, Gordon Hall commented that "six players seems to be the sweet spot for us. It's enough players that you can get some seriously good competition going on and split into teams that are more than just two players each. On the other hand it's also a good number for us to implement multiplayer without having to sacrifice the things that make Grand Theft Auto great: an open, living world in a city that is populated by pedestrians, traffic, and other ambient life. Any more than 6 and we would have had to pull those aspects of the game, a compromise we weren't willing to make." [ 2 ]
Apple iOS graphics
At this earlier time in the GTA lineage, Liberty City is slightly different. For example, Luigi Goterelli 's Sex Club 7 is named Paulie's Revue Bar , and is instead owned by Joseph Daniel O'Toole , a pervert working for the Sindacco Crime Family , although the player sees how it becomes Sex Club Seven. Fort Staunton is an Italian neighborhood instead of a construction site, although its fate is explained in this game. Even the tallest tower in Liberty City in 1998 is only half of its height is compared to GTA III . The way to get from island to island has also been tweaked. A ferry now runs from Portland to Staunton Island , and the tunnel that connects the islands in GTA III has not yet been completed - only the section of the tunnel that runs from north Shoreside Vale to south Shoreside Vale is open. The Callahan Bridge (the bridge that was blown up at the start of Grand Theft Auto III ) has also not been fully constructed yet. Only after the mission "Driving Mr. Leone", which occurs at around 19% completion, you can actually traverse the bridge as its construction progresses. In addition, motorbikes were previously permitted in the city. The official GTA Liberty City Stories websites reveal that motorbikes were no longer in GTA III due to a public ordinance that banned them that was supported by the Maibatsu Corporation (which marketed the oversized Monstrosity in GTA III ) in order to promote the use of automobiles in the city. The street scenery is also different as well, buildings that are complete in 2001 are under construction in 1998. For example, the Tw@ Internet Cafe is under construction.
On the PlayStation Portable , character movement is controlled using the and the being used to cycle through the available weapons. The button changes the camera mode. To target an enemy, the player holds the button and can then cycle through targets using and on the . While in a car, the and buttons can be used for drive-by shootings. While in the midst of a mission, all enemies (that is, those directly related to the mission) are indicated on the radar by red dots. In the game's menu, the player can choose to reverse the functions of the and .
The PlayStation 2 version of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories combines various gameplay mechanics from the PS2 versions of Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . Camera control is similar to that of GTA San Andreas , while on-foot movement and gunplay are closer to GTA III or GTA Vice City . However, third-person free-aiming is available in GTA Liberty City Stories , which is used in GTA San Andreas . The ability to move the camera view around while driving is also maintained (it is noticeably absent in GTA III , along with an on-screen map of the city, which is featured in GTA Liberty City Stories ).
The mobile version of GTA Liberty City Stories uses the same controls with previous mobile titles - on-screen analog on the left moves Toni and the right side has on-screen controls for run/jump, attack, free aiming, answer/hang up phone calls and enter/exit vehicle. When in vehicles, players have the option to steer using on-screen analog, on-screen L/R buttons or swipe L/R to steer. Zooming and changing camera on foot is now done by pinch the screen with 2 fingers, and an additional "shoot" button is available on the left side so players can aim with their right hand (only on certain weapons). There is no Target button in the Mobile version - players must tap on the enemies to target them with both firearms and melee. An option allows Toni to automatically target enemies in front of him when holding a gun however. Switching weapons and changing radio stations are done by swiping left/right on the weapon/radio station area. Differently from previous Grand Theft Auto titles on mobile, GTA Liberty City Stories features Look Left/Right buttons to perform drive-by instead of Shoot Left/Right, and there's an option to toggle or hold the button to look (so players can steer vehicles while performing drive-by easier).
One key difference between Toni in GTA Liberty City Stories and Carl Johnson in GTA San Andreas is Toni lacks the ability to climb, which renders accessing some locations – such as the Hidden Package location next to the Portland Safehouse – difficult. Another difference is Toni is unable to swim, rendering any immersion in water deadly (as a result of removing the ability to swim, however, GTA Liberty City Stories renders it impossible for players to access locked areas before completing the Portland segment of the game; after Staunton Island is unlocked, it's possible to enter Shoreside Vale using the "car drives on water" cheat). A third difference that is key is that Toni lacks the ability to recruit gang members (unless the player uses the "recruit pedestrians" cheat). Finally Toni is unable to crouch (although the animation is seen on various cutscenes), so he is more exposed to gunfire during battles.
One improvement to the PS2 controls over GTA San Andreas is that during sub-missions such as Taxi Driver , the player is prompted to press the R3 button twice before cancelling a mission; in the earlier game, it was easy to accidentally push R3 and cancel a mission. However, it's still possible to accidentally quit several missions by hitting the key, exiting a vehicle, which in most cases will automatically end a driving-based sub-mission.
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas required the player to regularly feed and exercise Carl Johnson in order to prevent him from losing health and abilities. This element of gameplay is eliminated with Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . Also, while aircraft are visible in GTA Liberty City Stories and are even involved in a few missions, unlike GTA San Andreas the player does not have the ability to fly in this game. Gang wars may take place in missions and are one of the main focuses of the game, but the player cannot win new territory in this game, a feature notably prominent in GTA San Andreas . Swimming has been eliminated and parkour has been simplified back to how it was in GTA III and GTA Vice City , which doesn't allow grabbing on to ledges or climbing.
The PSP version of Liberty City Stories has a multiplayer mode, for up to 6 players through wifi ad-hoc mode (same area). The game features 7 modes of wireless multiplayer gaming, in which various pedestrian and character models from the single player mode are available as player avatars. Rockstar removed these modes from the PS2 port of GTA Liberty City Stories .
The first is Liberty City Survivor , a tie-in to the radio advertisement found in GTA III of a fictional reality television show of the same name. In Liberty City Survivor, players fight for themselves in a deathmatch. The first player to reach a certain number of kills, or with the highest score when the timer runs out is the winner. Players can also play in teams, or "gangs". Ultimately players will be able to choose from over 60 different characters, and play on all three islands, depending on progress through the single player storyline, but from the get go, it is limited to Portland with a generous nine characters to choose from.
The second mode of play is Protection Racket , in which players attack an opposing player's gang base in order to destroy four limos while the other gang tries to protect its limos. When time runs out, or a gang destroys the other gang's limos, a new round begins with the gang roles reversed.
In Get Stretch , players try to steal the other gang's gang cars from their base and take it to their base. The game ends when a gang reaches the score limit or time runs out.
In The Hit List , players have to kill the Marked player as quickly as possible. Survive as long as possible when you are the Mark. In the first round, one player will be chosen randomly as the Mark, all other players must try to kill the Marked player as quickly as possible. Once a Marked player has been killed, a different player will be randomly chosen to be the Mark. Making a successful kill on a Marked player will award you with extra time that is added to your survival time at the end of the game. Once all players have been Marked and killed, the player with the longest survival time wins. The Marked player's vehicle will take damage over time.
In Street Rage players must drive through the checkpoints to get to the finish line first. Players are allowed to change vehicles and shoot other players to win the race. Players will be automatically re-spawned in a vehicle on the track after a short period of time if they do not have a vehicle or if they have been killed. The player that finishes the race first wins. The Sticky Tires powerup improves vehicle handling for limited time, while Instant Repair is just that, an instant repair for your vehicle.
The Wedding List is a free-for-all game where players must collect cars scattered throughout the city and deliver them to shipping crates. Only players in the vehicles to be collected will know the destinations of the shipping crates. Cash is awarded based on the condition of the cars when they are delivered. Once all the cars have been collected and delivered, the player with the most cash wins this game mode.
In Tanks for the Memories players have to be the first to the tank and try to survive the target Tank Time. Other players must try to destroy the tank before the Tank Time is reached. If this happens, the player who caused the most damage to the tank will occupy a new tank and, as before, it must be destroyed as quickly as possible. This continues until a player reaches the Tank Time; this player is declared the winner.
GTA Liberty City Stories features ten radio stations, which comprise a mix of both licensed music and tracks created specifically for the game. These are mostly the same radio stations as in GTA III ; however, since the game takes place three years prior, they are shown as earlier counterparts of the stations, and some have ended broadcast by the time of the events of GTA III .
The ten radio stations are as follows:
A special feature (only in the PSP and Mobile version of the game) is the ability to listen to custom soundtracks. Previously, only Grand Theft Auto games on the Xbox and PC were able to implement custom soundtracks. When Liberty City Stories was released, the custom soundtracks option was featured in the "Audio" section of the menu (by pressing Start in gameplay) but did not have any use. Many people posted on various internet forums asking how to use the feature. At one time, it was thought that these custom soundtrack abilities had to be unlocked, but this would have been very unusual since previous games didn't do this.
A few days after release of the game, Rockstar placed the application called "Rockstar Custom Tracks v1.0" on the official site under the "Downloads" section. This then gave people the chance to use the custom soundtracks feature. The application appears to be based on Exact Audio Copy.
In the application, songs from a CD are ripped, compressed, and converted to files that can be read by the game. Because Rockstar Custom Tracks (RCT) only allow the ripping of songs that are from a store-bought CD, burning your downloaded songs onto a CD won't work. The only way to bypass this restriction is to use iTunes to put your music on a CD, as RCT recognizes iTunes-burned CDs as store-bought CDs. This was met with much criticism among the fan community. However, fans have found a way to compress and convert MP3 files that are not burned onto CDs. RCT can also look up and use the names from the FreeDB server if there are no names for the song(s). There must be at least one save file in order for RCT to work. It is thought that this will be used for other games Rockstar will release on the PSP from the name. More details can be found in the PDF in the file downloaded from the official site.
For the Mobile version of GTA Liberty City Stories , using custom soundtracks is simpler, as players only need to create a playlist titled "GTA LCS" and it will be recognized in the game.
On the PS2 version of the game, the radio stations are far less dynamic than those of GTA San Andreas . Noticeably, if the player exits a vehicle and re-enters a few moments later, either the station will change or the audio file will reset.
November 3, 2006 November 10, 2006 November 10, 2006 December 6, 2007
March 9, 2007 March 9, 2007 December 6, 2007
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories is the sixth and final game (but first chronologically) in the 3D Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series. Originally released as an exclusive game for the PlayStation Portable , it was later released on the PlayStation 2 console because of its success. It is the second Grand Theft Auto game to appear on the PSP system (the first being Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories ). The game was developed by Rockstar Leeds in association with Rockstar North , and published and released by Rockstar Games .
Take-Two Interactive originally announced the title was to be released in North America on October 17, 2006 and in Europe on October 20, but early in September, there was an announcement stating the game had been delayed for release until October 31 in North America and November 3 in Europe. It had also announced that the game will be released on November 10, 2006 in Australia .
On February 7, 2007, Rockstar Games announced plans for a PlayStation 2 release. The release dates were March 6, 2007, for North America and March 9, 2007, for Europe. It was released on PlayStation 3 via PlayStation Network on April 2, 2013, but has since been made unavailable. The PS2 port version of the game has a number of improvements over the original PSP version of the game, including enhanced graphics, new activities and a new Easter Egg .
In a February 2026 trademark dispute with DT Global Investment Holdings, Take-Two Interactive revealed that lifetime sales for GTA Vice City Stories was over 7 million copies. [ 1 ]
The protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Victor Vance .
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories marks the series return to Vice City , with the game taking place in 1984 , roughly two years before the events of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . The game focuses around Victor Vance , the brother of Lance Vance , both characters who have previously appeared in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
In 1984, Victor "Vic" Vance, the protagonist, is a U.S. Army corporal stationed at Fort Baxter . Desperate to raise money for his brother's asthma medication, Vic works as a reluctant middleman for his corrupt sergeant, Jerry Martinez , who is involved in a secret drug trafficking business. However, a drug deal meeting becomes botched when hitmen arrive and shoot a yacht. Vic escapes with the drug package and hides it in his barracks under Martinez's orders.
With drugs being strictly against his morals, Vic confronts him on the matter, but is rebuffed by Martinez, who asks him to pick up his girlfriend, a prostitute named Mary . Out of reluctance, Vic agrees to the task, finding her on Starfish Island . However, because of the earlier botched drug deal, Martinez decides to frame Vic for the contraband and Mary. Sergeant Peppah , having received the false report, orders Vic to be dishonorably discharged.
Afterwards, Vic briefly works for Phil Cassidy . Phil gets him in touch with his brother-in-law, Marty Jay Williams , who is an alcoholic husband who abuses his wife, Louise , and their baby, Mary-Beth . After Marty kidnaps Louise, Vic kills him and begins a relationship with her, after which he takes over Marty's businesses .
Soon after, Vic's brother, Lance Vance, comes into town to join him on his quest to take over Vice City to get the money required to pay for their brother's asthma medication. Together they steal Martinez's cocaine , but tensions arise between the brothers after Vic finds out that Lance and Louise used it for themselves. A short time later, Victor discovers that Martinez was only transporting the drugs for the Mendez Brothers , leaving Lance and Vic with no option but to work with the Mendez Brothers, only to be betrayed after doing a few jobs for them. The Mendez Brothers then kidnap Louise sometime after Vic protects and saves Phil Collins' concert from the Forelli Family , and he and Lance rush to the rescue. Lance gets captured by Armando Mendez and Vic fights his way to the underground room of the Mendez Mansion , where a deranged Armando is waiting for him wielding a Flamethrower, but Armando is quickly killed by Victor during the intense fire-fight that ensues. Although Lance manages to survive, Vic is too late to save Louise. Afterwards, with help from Phil Cassidy and Ricardo Diaz , Vic manages to steal an army helicopter (The Hunter ), and proceeds to gun down some of Diego Mendez 's Goons, eventually bringing him to land on the roof of the Mendez Building where he enters inside and continues his killing spree.
Upon Victor's return to the rooftop, there is one final confrontation, which ends when Vic kills Diego and Martinez, who had arrived in a helicopter when Vic was halfway from reaching Diego. Lance arrives to help Vic, but turns up late. Lance offers Victor twenty kilos of cocaine for a deal ahead; however, Victor denies his interest and says that he wants to stay away from drugs. He then says that he would send some money to their sick brother Pete for his medical treatment. By the end of the game, Victor is a very wealthy man.
Eventually, Victor is dragged back into the Vice City criminal underworld by his brother Lance. They set up a deal with the Forelli crime family, apparently with the help of Colonel Cortez according to Ken Rosenberg . As the two groups are about to exchange their goods, a small group of hitmen arrives and shoots at them, killing Vic and two of the Forelli family members, whilst the Forelli representative Tommy Vercetti and Ken Rosenberg drive off and Lance flies away from the scene, starting the events of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories was developed by Rockstar Leeds in collaboration with Rockstar North .
Discussing the improvements GTA Vice City Stories would feature over the earlier entry GTA Liberty City Stories , Rockstar Leeds studio director Gordon Hall explained "One of the biggest technical achievements in GTA Vice City Stories has been the enormous effort involved in making Vice City this incredibly vibrant, detailed and alive place. The detail seen in the city has been ramped up massively over Liberty City Stories. We now have double the number of polygons in a city block, with new features such as animated textures and neon light effects and an all-new radiosity lighting model. On top of this we had to push for an even greater draw distance, especially now that we have the addition of helicopters and planes -- it's a real blast taking to the sky in these things and seeing the city sprawl beneath you. And just for good measure, GTA Vice City Stories is even faster and smoother than Liberty City Stories." [ 2 ]
Commenting further on the upgrade from GTA Liberty City Stories , Hall noted "that engine just couldn't cope with these demands. Among a raft of tweaks and tune-ups, we've come up with new ways for the CPU and the graphics processor to talk to each other. This has freed up the CPU to do other things, and allowed us to push the graphics processor even harder, bringing the Vice City vibe to life with these incredible views stretching off into the horizon." [ 2 ]
He would go on to add "we've compressed and optimized across the board, both by hand in the creation of the art and in the code itself. For example, we've now got a lossless compression system for an animation, which has allowed us to have a greater variety of cars and pedestrians at once, and we have this greater complexity and variety alongside even faster loading times." [ 2 ]
Commenting on how the PSP would be able to handle viewing an entire city from the skies while flying an aircraft, Hall said "Vice City is a complete city, and we have utilized all elements of the physical space in this game, from the land to the sea to the air. Vehicles have been created with these very different spaces in mind. From a technical standpoint, perhaps our greatest accomplishment has been the issue of draw distance. We have created a system that increases the draw distance to the point where every element in the players view has been created on screen. When you are in the air, pedestrians, cars, and anything on the ground will scale down depending on how close or far the player is to them, much as they would in real life. It really takes the scope of the series -- creating living cities -- one step further, this time for your PSP." [ 2 ]
Gordon Hall went on to talk about the landscape of Vice City; "Another area that we've concentrated on is the water surrounding the landscape. Vice City itself is surrounded by a whole lot of water, so we've gone to town here. We've enhanced the water and boat physics, programming an improved buoyancy model which really becomes apparent if you mess around with the new Jetski . What's the point of creating new water physics without putting in vehicles uniquely designed to take advantage of the environment? As always with Grand Theft Auto , the emphasis here is on fast, fun and fluid mechanics (pun intended). With the Jet Ski you can dive under water and come bursting back up, you can really feel it bounce off the waves as the weather conditions change, you can turn on a dime and really send the water spraying. The look of the water has been improved too, with better translucency, wake, spray and wave effects." [ 2 ]
Speaking briefly about how the targeting system would be upgrade, hall commented "Like all of versions, we have tweaked the existing targeting system. I wouldn't call it a complete overhaul, but we definitely have taken a fresh look at it, particularly in regards to how it relates to the hand-to-hand combat system. The combat system has more depth to it than any other Grand Theft Auto game. The targeting mechanic has been tweaked, but the biggest change has been to unarmed combat - you can now perform grappling moves and throws, you can get on top of an opponent on the ground for ground domination, and more." [ 2 ]
Commenting on how players can customize their musical experience in the game, Hall said "Custom soundtracks exist. You'll be able to add new music right away. However, I'm not sure why you would want to -- the soundtrack has over 100 tracks, and is probably the best, deepest collection of songs ever assembled for any one project -- TV, Film, or Game." [ 2 ]
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories contains many of the characters (and voice actors) from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , including Phil (Gary Busey), Ricardo Diaz (Luis Guzman), Lance Vance (Philip Michael Thomas) and Umberto Robina (Danny Trejo). In addition to the gangs previously featured in Vice City, new gangs make a debut in this game: the Trailer Park Mafia, the Cholos, the Mendez Brothers Gang, and the Stallionz. Some of the gangs from the previous game have been renamed: the Streetwannabe's are known as the Sharks, and the Cubans are known as the Los Cabrones.
Similarly to Liberty City in 1998 compared to 2001 , Vice City has many differences due to the different timeline setting, including a fairground in the location where Avery Carrington 's construction site is. There is also a warehouse in Little Haiti that does not exist by the time GTA Vice City takes place, though the fate is explained in the game. The Mendez Building and Victor's Empire Buildings no longer exist in 1986. Diaz's Mansion (later the Vercetti Estate ) is only partially finished. The Mendez Mansion is newer and still resided in, although the fate of the mansion is explained in the game. Phil Cassidy runs a business in Viceport instead of Downtown Vice City . InterGlobal Studios is owned by future Flashback FM DJ Reni Wassulmaier instead of Steve Scott , but the reason why this is explained later in the game. A Trailer Park is present, that is absent in GTA Vice City and is replaced by a bigger Sunshine Autos near Escobar International Airport .
Compared to its chronological sequel , Vice City seems to be much more chaotic and crime-riddled.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories is structured similarly to other releases from the Grand Theft Auto series. The core gameplay consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, affording the player a large, open environment to move around in. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, swimming (an ability last available in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ), and jumping, as well as utilizing weapons and basic hand to hand combat. Players can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, airplanes, helicopters, and motorcycles.
The open, non-linear environment allows players to explore and choose how they wish to play the game. Although storyline missions are necessary to progress through the game and unlock certain areas and content, they are not required, as players can complete them at their own leisure. When not taking on a storyline mission, players can free-roam and create havoc (e.g. Drive-By Shooting , robberies, etc.). However, doing so can attract unwanted and potentially fatal attention from the authorities. The more chaos caused, the stronger the response: police will handle minor infractions, whereas SWAT teams, the FBI , and the Vice City national guard respond to higher wanted levels.
The player can also partake in a variety of optional side missions. The traditional side missions of the past games are included, such as dropping off taxi cab passengers, putting out fires, driving injured people to the hospital, and fighting crime as a vigilante. A new addition to the game is "Beach Patrol", in which Victor plays lifeguard on Vice City's beach, saving citizen's lives or dispatching local gangs. One improvement to the PS2 controls with regards to many of these side missions is that exiting a vehicle (accidentally or intentionally) usually does not fail a sub-mission anymore, allowing easier replacement of damaged vehicles, or re-entering a vehicle if the exit was due to hitting the wrong button.
One of the key gameplay elements in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories is the "Empire Building" system. New to the Grand Theft Auto series, it borrows a few ideas from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City 's "properties" and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ' "gang wars" systems. In order to make money, the player must open and operate various businesses on property taken over from enemy gangs.
The combat system was overhauled to feature more depth than ever before. The targeting mechanic has been tweaked to "intelligently target"; enemies posing a threat or attacking the player will be targeted over pedestrians. The biggest changes concern the hand-to-hand combat system, as players can now perform grappling moves and throws, and stand on top of enemies laying on the ground.
For the first time in a Grand Theft Auto game, players are able to bribe policemen or hospital staff when "Wasted" or "Busted" in order to keep weapons that ordinarily would have been lost. Also new to the series are icons scattered around the city that allow Vic to purchase vehicles. For example, a bulletproof Sanchez is available at the first safehouse (only in the PS2 version).
The standard hidden package system returns in the form of 99 red balloons scattered around the city. This is a reference to Nena 's 1980s hit, " 99 Luftballons ". Also, extras that have been discovered (Red Balloons, Rampages , and the Unique Stunt Jumps ) appear on the in-game map. Trip skips also return. However, functions such as eating and exercise and skill-level increases, last seen in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , remain absent. The game also reintroduces strip club interiors (absent in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories ), albeit in a non-interactive form and depending on what Empire Building options the player chooses.
Improvements to the graphics since the release of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories include new animations, faster load times (although a load screen is still displayed when travelling between the two major islands), a further draw distance, reductions in clumping of pedestrians and vehicles, more complex and realistic explosions, and increases in the density of objects, vehicles, and NPCs .
One new feature of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories is that the player can receive a small cash bonus for being a good Samaritan and rescuing pedestrians being attacked by enemy gang members.
Like the game's predecessor, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories features a multiplayer mode that can be played via WiFi. Ten different modes of play are offered, and these multiplayer games will incorporate use of automobiles, aircraft, and water-based vehicles.
Much like the original Grand Theft Auto: Vice City game, the look and feel of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories are heavily influenced by the television series Miami Vice . More specific references include the corrupt VCPD detective Bryan Forbes , who dresses in a white suit, loafers and a pastel pink t-shirt, mimicking one of the signature looks of Sonny Crockett , one of the primary characters in the show. Philip Michael Thomas , who portrayed Rico Tubbs , Crockett's partner and the other main character in Miami Vice , also returns to provide the voice of Lance Vance in the game.
Much like Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , the game's soundtrack includes several songs that featured in the show, including " Relax " by Frankie Goes to Hollywood , " I Want to Know What Love Is " by Foreigner and " In the Air Tonight " by Phil Collins , the latter in particular having a very strong association with the show after its iconic appearance in the pilot episode " Brother's Keeper ". Collins additionally appears in Vice City Stories as himself, "performing" a live rendition of "In the Air Tonight" (in fact taken from his No Ticket Required video) during the mission of the same name . This parallels how Collins likewise appeared in an acting role in Miami Vice , playing a con-artist in the episode "Phil the Shill".
Like all other games in the Grand Theft Auto series, the soundtrack plays an integral role in setting the game's atmosphere. The game features nine different radio stations which play over 100 licensed songs from the 1970s and 1980s. Most of the stations remain the same as in the settings of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (1986), though Fever 105 and Wildstyle are replaced with Fresh 105 and Paradise FM, and the talk radio station K-Chat does not broadcast.
The game features around 100 vehicles, predominantly reappearing from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , along with a selection of exclusive models.
The weapons in GTA Vice City Stories were changed from those found in its predecessor to fit the earlier year in which the game is set. For instance, the Tec-9 is replaced with a Scorpion and the rocket launcher has the look of an M72 LAW . The M4 is replaced by an M16 , as there were no M4s in 1984. The main pistol in the game was changed to the Beretta 92 . Most of the other weapons are the same as the ones from GTA Vice City , GTA San Andreas and GTA Liberty City Stories . The Python in GTA Vice City Stories has a scope, though it is not functional. GTA Vice City Stories has the AK , whereas GTA Vice City has the Ruger . The machine gun in the game is a M249 , while in the M-60 is used in GTA Vice City . The Sniper Rifle is now based on the M21 Sniper Weapon System , while the Laser Sniper is based on a Dragunov sniper rifle .
(*) Change also applied on the Japanese PSP version.
There are some sound effect differences between the PSP and PS2 version. The PSP version recycles the sounds from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , whereas the PS2 version has some differences:
The "disappearing vehicle" glitch - in which a car driven to a mission trigger point disappears after the cutscene - is at its worst in this title. Not only do vehicles almost always vanish after the mission cutscenes, but they also vanish if the player saves their game in a safehouse with a vehicle parked outside, even if Victor immediately goes back outside (in previous games the last vehicle driven by the player remains parked outside the safehouse after a save as long as the console isn't reset or a game reloaded).
April 16, 2010 April 16, 2010
April 16, 2010 April 16, 2010
Grand Theft Auto IV: The Lost and Damned (official abbreviation TLAD ) is the first of two episodes of downloadable content for Grand Theft Auto IV on the PlayStation 3 , PC and Xbox 360 . This episode features a new storyline, with a new protagonist - Johnny Klebitz , of The Lost Outlaw Motorcycle Club.
The game was first released as a download on Xbox Live on February 17, 2009 as an "Xbox 360 exclusive". However, in GTA IV 's fourth PC patch, The Lost and Damned 's achievements were added to the PC version. At first, The Lost and Damned along with the second piece of downloadable content, The Ballad of Gay Tony , were to be released to the PS3 and PC on March 30, 2010, but due to Sony Computer Entertainment wanting to edit some of the radio stations, it was released on April 13 in North America and April 16 in Europe.
The Lost and Damned received critical acclaim, holding 90/100 (Xbox) and 88/100 (PS3) on Metacritic, and 89% (Xbox) and 94% (PS3 and PC) on GameRankings.
The episode features new missions, multiplayer modes, weapons, vehicles, and music/radio shows. It became available for download via Xbox LIVE and PlayStation Network and costs $9.99 or 800 Microsoft Points. It is part of a disc-based title, " Grand Theft Auto: Episodes From Liberty City ", which does not need a GTA IV disc to be played and is bundled along with the second episodic content, The Ballad of Gay Tony , for $39.99 (around £25.00).
"Johnny is a very different character than Niko , with a very different background," says Dan Houser , vice president of creative development for Rockstar Games . "I can't go into too much detail on the story, because we try not to give away too much plot before the game is released. But I can say that the story will show you a different side of Liberty City."
"The story is not directly impacted by decisions you took in the main game," he says. However, "tons of details and mysteries from the main story get explained, so it will add a lot of color to the main story."
The storylines for GTA IV , The Lost and Damned , and The Ballad of Gay Tony were written by Dan Houser and Rupert Humphries. All three storylines occur within the same time frame, and occasionally intertwine with each other.
The Lost and Damned' s plot and tone consists of a dark, gritty storyline revolving around the actions and lifestyle of members of The Lost Motorcycle Club, which operates in Alderney and Liberty City . Billy Grey is the president of the club, who is the most reckless of all and leads the others in a stubborn refusal of rational methodology (even in the case of Johnny, when Billy frowns upon him for making peace with the Angels of Death . While the main protagonist, Johnny Klebitz , is battling rivals across Liberty City beside their gang he also associates with wealthy political congressmen , lower-class bikers and drug pushers, emphasizing the distinction between upper and lower class in America. The Lost own a clubhouse and mostly patrol throughout Alderney , North Algonquin, and South Bohan . Labeled as the most dangerous threats to personal safety in Liberty City, the Lost partake in drinking and drug abuse, gang shootouts, illegal racing, drug distribution, mere prostitution and motorcycle thefts . When Johnny Klebitz and his fellow bikers feel compelled to "put this place out of its misery" by burning it to the ground , it symbolizes the end of the Lost motorcycle club, as the pressures of authority, government, territorial gangs, and members either double-crossing the gang or becoming killed by the dozens prove that the club can no longer function from the enemies it has gained.
Characters:
As read in the booklet included with Episodes from Liberty City :
Across the West River from glamorous Algonquin lies Alderney ; home to industrial wastelands, strip malls, dreary suburbia and The Lost MC, a notorious biker gang along with band of thieves, murderers and drug-runners. The Lost have sworn to live by their own rules, above the law and in complete allegiance to the brotherhood. Billy Grey, the clubs President, has one set of priorities: Bikes, Booze, Babes and Blow; in any order and preferably all at the same time. His second-in-command, Johnny Klebitz, knows that time is running out for this gang of outlaws, and with money to be made in Liberty City , he is determined to make cash as quickly as possible before they all ride off into the sunset. Johnny has been in control of the club while Billy serves out a court-ordered stint in rehab. He has focused the gang’s activities on deals and truces, instead of petty vendettas, and has been making good inroads into Liberty City's organized crime world, even developing a working business relationship with the Angels of Death, long-term rivals of The Lost. One problem. Billy's coming home, and he's crazier than ever...
Johnny Klebitz , Vice President of the Alderney chapter of The Lost MC , has been busy protecting the gang's business interests in Liberty City , and is loyal to the chapter president, Billy Grey , who was recently sent to rehab for heroin addiction after narrowly avoiding a fifteen-year sentence in prison. When Billy returns, his violent actions towards the gang's rivals, the Angels of Death , causes a previously established truce to be broken between the two gangs, threatening the Brotherhood's survival. Johnny also works with Jim Fitzgerald to further sabotage Angels of Death business at the behest of Billy Grey , which includes stealing Angels of Death bikes to be sold for parts and blowing up Angels of Death vans with pipe bombs . They briefly have problems with Jimmy Matthews and Ed McCornish , corrupt police officers who are attempting to extort them due to the stolen bikes , and later lure them into a death trap set by the Lost, killing them and their corrupt LCPD colleagues .
To further complicate matters, Jason Michaels , a recently patched-in member of the Lost MC , is killed in Broker during an attack on members of the Lost by the Angels of Death . Billy uses the opportunity to convince Johnny that the AoD were responsible for the murder, rather than the actual killer . In retaliation, the gang attacks the Angels of Death clubhouse and secures a large amount of heroin . The gang attempts to sell the heroin through drug dealer Elizabeta Torres , but the buyer turns out to be an undercover cop . Following the botched deal , Billy introduces Johnny to Thomas Stubbs III (who Billy meets through his lawyer, Dave Grossman ), a corrupt Congressman who pays Johnny to help him stay on top politically. Eventually, Johnny's friend and Treasurer of the Lost MC , Jim Fitzgerald , learns that the heroin was stolen from the Triads by the Angels of Death, so the gang attempts to sell it back to them , only to be betrayed. The police capture Billy, who is sent back to prison .
Following Billy's arrest, Johnny becomes the chapter's new president. However Brian Jeremy , the Club Secretary refuses to follow , having been fiercely loyal to Billy and blaming Johnny for his arrest. Brian attempts to ambush Johnny and his loyalists using a peace meeting at the docks as a ruse, sending members of his rebel faction after them, and so Johnny is forced to later ambush Brian and members of his rebel faction at his safehouse , either killing or sparing him. In order to keep the gang afloat, Johnny begins working with people such as Uptown Riders members Malc and DeSean, and is forced to get his ex-girlfriend, Ashley Butler out of trouble on two separate occasions: rescuing her from violent drug addicts at a condemned housing project in North Holland , and kidnapping Roman Bellic at the behest of Dimitri Rascalov, to whom Ashley owes money . Johnny eventually comes to help out Pegorino Family capo Ray Boccino at the recommendation of his ex-girlfriend, Ashley . Through Ray, Johnny steals a large amount of diamonds from Tony Prince and attempts to sell them to the Jewish Mafia with the help of Niko Bellic , however the deal fails after Mori Green is gunned down by a sniper , who reclaims the diamonds , and so Johnny manages to escape with the money, after dealing with Ray's henchmen , planning to keep it for the Brotherhood. An angry Ray kidnaps Jim and tortures him while holding Johnny at gunpoint, but the two escape. Johnny fights off several hitmen working for Ray and ultimately learns from Ashley outside the Lost MC Clubhouse that Jim was killed by one of Ray's men . He plans to attack Ray but is told by Stubbs not to, who reckons that Ray Boccino will either be "locked up or dead within a month" and so instead focuses on Billy, who has agreed to testify against Johnny and Angus Martin so that he may be freed from prison. Johnny, Terry Thorpe , Clay Simons and other members of the Lost infiltrate the prison and Johnny personally executes Billy . Afterward, the remnants of the Lost burn the clubhouse down, as it has sustained heavy damage due to the conflict with Ray Boccino . The group stands in front of the burning building contemplating the future. Later, Ashley phones Johnny and tells him she's admitting herself to rehab, with Johnny wishing her the best.
The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony were first announced during Microsoft's 2006 E3 press conference on 9 May 2006. [ 1 ] Peter Moore, then head of Microsoft's Interactive Entertainment Business division, described downloadable content as "epic episode packs", and not just an extra car or character. A press release during the conference said that the expansion packs, both The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony would add "hours of entirely new gameplay" to the game, [ 2 ] with Jeronimo Barrera , Vice-President of Product Development for Rockstar Games , explaining that the episodes were experiments because they were not sure that there were enough users with access to online content on the Xbox 360. [ 3 ] Take-Two Interactive 's chief financial officer, Lainie Goldstein, revealed that Microsoft was paying a total of $50 million for the first two episodes. [ 4 ]
On 20 February 2008, it was initially announced that the extra content would be introduced starting August 2008. Dan Houser , vice-president of creative development at Rockstar Games, claimed that through this episode, it would show "a different side of Liberty City". [ 5 ] As part of its second quarter financial reports Take-Two announced that the downloadable content had been delayed and would be released during the first quarter of its 2009 financial year (November 2008–January 2009). [ 6 ] On 13 November 2008, Take-Two executive chairman Strauss Zelnick warned that while they were aiming to release the first episode pack by January 2009, the date may have had to change to the second financial quarter of 2009 (February–April) depending on the completion date. 17 February's release date was eventually announced one week after Zelnick's warning.
Upon release, The Lost and Damned received critical acclaim from critics and fans alike.
Metacritic awarded the Xbox 360 version with 90/100, while the PS3 version received a lower 88/100.
GameRankings awarded the Xbox 360 version version with 89.81%, while both the PS3 and PC versions received a more favorable 94%.
Many minor critics awarded the DLC with perfect scores, including AceGamez , Level7.nu , DarkStation , Total Video Games and G4 TV . X360 Magazine UK gave the DLC a perfect 10/10, stating "[The] Lost and Damned is an absolute behemoth of an expansion, providing a fresh perspective on the same city and setting a devilishly high standard for DLC in the future".
GameTrailers gave the game a 9.2/10, stating "One of the most robust pieces of downloadable content we've ever seen. We're used to getting a handful of hours, but we were surprised again and again that the missions just kept on coming. There's a certain level of déjà vu involved and more mission variety would be appreciated, but the new multiplayer options are practically worth the price of admission alone".
GamesRadar awarded TLAD with a 9/10, stating "the story and acting are great, the missions are enjoyable and riding around on the retooled bikes is the most fun it's been in any GTA since Vice City . It's not going to change the minds of any Niko-haters, but anyone itching to delve back into Liberty City should grab it now".
The Official Xbox Magazine UK gave the DLC a 9/10, stating "for the price, it's unmissable, and it proves that Liberty City can support far more than the two pieces of DLC Rockstar has committed to". IGN gave TLAD a 9/10, stating "If the story and new characters were better, this would be the perfect $20 download. But as it stands, it's still the best available by a long shot."
Game Informer , GamePro and GameSpy all gave the game a 9/10, praising its gameplay. 1UP.com awarded the DLC a B+.
Eurogamer and Destructoid were slightly less favorable towards the DLC, with both critics awarding it with 8/10.
October 29, 2009 October 29, 2009
April 16, 2010 April 16, 2010
April 16, 2010 April 16, 2010
Grand Theft Auto: The Ballad of Gay Tony (official abbreviation TBoGT ) is the second episode of two downloadable add-ons for Grand Theft Auto IV . It is the fourth expansion pack in the Grand Theft Auto series and the fourteenth release in the series. It was released on October 29, 2009. The PlayStation 3 and PC versions were later released on April 13, 2010 in North America and on April 16, 2010 in Europe.
The protagonist is Luis Fernando Lopez , a part-time hoodlum and full-time assistant to legendary nightclub impresario Tony Prince . The storyline intertwines with the original game and first episode, most notably the Museum Piece mission that involves all three protagonists. As well as a new storyline, missions, and characters, it also features new game mechanics, vehicles , weapons , side missions , collectibles and achievements/trophies . As with The Lost and Damned , new radio and in-game television programming is included. The game is also the first game in the series to implement a scoring system for missions.
Rockstar says, "Players will struggle with the competing loyalties of family and friends, and with the uncertainty about who is real and who is fake in a world in which everyone has a price." According to Rockstar's official website, "The Ballad of Gay Tony injects Liberty City with an overdose of guns, glitz, and grime." Sam Houser, the founder of Rockstar Games, said before its release "This episode's focus on high-end night life contrasts with the biker gangs portrayed in The Lost and Damned, whilst giving us a lot of new gameplay possibilities."
As a downloadable expansion, it costs $19.99 (USD) on both Xbox Live and PlayStation Network.
At first, The Ballad of Gay Tony , along with the first piece of downloadable content, The Lost and Damned , was going to be released to the PS3 and PC on March 30, but due to Sony Computer Entertainment wanting to edit some of the radio stations, it was released on the later date of April 13 in North America and April 16 in Europe.
The stories for GTA IV , The Lost and Damned , and The Ballad of Gay Tony were written by Dan Houser and Rupert Humphries. All three stories run alongside each other and intertwine at various points.
Luis Fernando Lopez , the protagonist of The Ballad of Gay Tony
Whereas The Lost and Damned depicted the gritty life of a biker gang, The Ballad of Gay Tony shines light on the glamorous celebrity nightclub scene. Protagonist Luis Fernando Lopez is the bodyguard and occasional bouncer at Maisonette 9 , one of the two current clubs (along with Hercules ) owned by the infamous Anthony "Gay Tony" Prince .
However, Tony's life isn't all that glamorous anymore. Being in debt to gangsters, Luis and Tony are barraged with temptation and the ever increasing necessity of selling each other out. The duo surprisingly turn their noses at some substantial opportunities, with several other high-rollers that could easily buy the clubs themselves, and Tony often resorting to fraud. Very few, if any, characters make it the entire story without telling a lie: sometimes, it's because of business, but other times, it's because of a social imbalance (like Yusuf wanting to impress Luis), teaching the valuable life lesson that no one is to be trusted.
By the end of the story, Tony and Luis have resolved their debt and trust issues. It is also hinted that they may have agreed to finance Maisonette 9 and Hercules with Yusuf, despite their initial refusal.
Characters:
Another important set of characters, though they do not affect the main storyline, are the fictional celebrities met in the Club Management missions. Luis and Tony are made the peers and trusted confidants of extremely powerful celebrities. Beyond the comic value of pop culture, it is meant to portray opportunity raining from the sky for Tony and Luis, some of which might lure them to abandon or endanger each other.
Luis Fernando Lopez is being held hostage at the Bank of Liberty , during a robbery involving Niko Bellic , Patrick McReary , Derrick McReary and Michael Keane . A local gun club member lying next to him, Eugene Reaper , shoots and kills Keane and is then killed by the McReary brothers in retaliation. The scene cuts to the aftermath of the robbery; Luis is being questioned by the police about the incident before proceeding to Gay Tony's loft. On the way, he is nearly run over by Niko Bellic (returning from the robbery) and Johnny Klebitz , who rides past him. Rocco Pelosi , a senior Ancelotti mobster, and his accomplice Vince enter the loft and collect Tony's club income for the week as interest repayment on an outstanding loan. Tony then discusses with Luis his dire financial situation with his two clubs, Maisonette 9 and Hercules . In an attempt to curry favor with Rocco, Tony and Luis go to Chinatown to negotiate a deal with a senior Triad . Billy Grey , President of The Lost Motorcycle Gang is seen arranging an ambush on Johnny Klebitz and Jim Fitzgerald with the Triad as Tony and Luis enter the room. The negotiations with the Triad soon turn awry, and Luis protects Tony as they escape Chinatown.
Luis visits his mother , who also has financial issues, and his childhood friends Henrique Bardas and Armando Torres . Luis' mother does not approve of his lifestyle and would like him to attend to college. Henrique and Armando are Luis' friends who are heavily involved with the narcotics distribution trade. Luis soon becomes acquainted with Yusuf Amir , a real estate developer in Liberty City. Luis helps Yusuf acquire several vehicles, including an experimental military grade chopper called the " Buzzard ", an APC used by the NOOSE , and even a subway carriage .
Meanwhile, Tony is headed in a downward spiral due to substance abuse, supplied by his boyfriend Evan Moss . Luis, Tony and Evan head to the docks to buy $2 million worth of diamonds from a cook coming in on a tanker called the " Platypus ". During the exchange, members of The Lost (now led by Johnny Klebitz , formerly Billy Grey) attack and kill Evan and acquire the diamonds . Tony promises Luis that he will quit the substance abuse and introduces Luis to Mori Kibbutz , and his younger brother Brucie . Mori is highly egotistical, constantly bullies and belittles Brucie and is a source of irritation to Luis, who repeatedly stands up for Brucie. Through entering Triathlons and undertaking dangerous police chases , Luis eventually managed to cancel Tony's debt to Mori. After Brucie finally retaliates and punches Mori, he later shows up at Maisonette 9 to thank Luis. Brucie leans in towards Luis after a series of compliments, strongly implying an attempt to hit on him. Luis strongly declines, and Brucie awkwardly attempts to convince Luis that he was just testing him to see if he was gay.
Tony and Luis meet Ray Bulgarin and his associate Timur at Maisonette 9, who offer Luis some work in exchange for financial help. Luis helps Bulgarin eliminate some corrupt federal agents and acquire the Liberty City Rampage hockey team. Gracie Ancelotti gets Tony back on the drugs and is later kidnapped by unknown assailants. The Ancelottis establish that Gracie has been kidnapped because of the diamonds and are pointing the blame at Tony and Luis. Tony learns that the diamonds are being exchanged at The Libertonian and sends Luis to retrieve them . Luis ambushes the exchange (involving Niko Bellic and Johnny Klebitz) and escapes in the Buzzard, which has since been gold plated.
Bulgarin phones Luis, telling him to go to the roof of a building in midtown Algonquin. As Luis uncovers the severed head of the cook from the "Platypus", Bulgarin explains that the diamonds belong to him and accuses the cook, Luis and Tony of colluding to steal them. It emerges that Bulgarin has led Luis to an ambush on the rooftop , and he escapes alive. Gracie’s father, Giovanni Ancelotti, then orders Luis and Tony to trade the diamonds with the kidnappers and get Gracie back . At the exchange, Bulgarin shows up and orders his men to attack the assailants, Packie McReary and Niko Bellic. Bulgarin flees the scene and amidst the chaos the diamonds fall into a dump truck heading in the opposite direction. Luis, Tony and Gracie escape in a speedboat.
Because of being preoccupied with recent events, Tony defaults on his debts and the city closes down all of his clubs as a result. Luis meets Rocco and Vince in the restrooms in Middle Park, and they explain to him that he must kill Tony, or the Ancelottis and Russians will team up and kill Tony, Luis and all of their friends and family . Luis shows up at Maisonette 9 and contemplates shooting Tony, before pointing the gun at Vince and shooting him in the head. Tony warns Luis not to shoot Rocco, as he is a "made man". Rocco escapes and the Russians show up ensuing in a huge gunfight within the club. Tony blames Luis for contemplating killing him and flees to his apartment to pack and move to the desert. Luis convinces Tony that he chose not to kill him because it is them against the world, and that they need to resolve their situation. Luis ventures to Firefly Island to ambush a Russian heroin exchange , telling Tony to hide out by the Monoglobe in Meadows Park .
In the fairground, Luis destroys the heroin and kills Timur, who mentions that Bulgarin is fleeing the city by plane within two hours. After an opportune phone conversation, Yusuf shows up in the Buzzard and eliminates the pursuing Russians while Luis drives to the airport. Luis manages to board the plane and kills all of the henchmen on board. A vengeful Bulgarin emerges from the cockpit holding a grenade, threatening to blow the plane up if Luis kills him. Luis takes the risk and shoots Bulgarin, who drops the grenade, which becomes live and explodes. Luis parachutes out of the burning wreckage of the plane to safety, and heads to Meadows Park where Tony is waiting. Once there, they both tell Yusuf that he would be very qualified to become a business partner in the clubs, saying "he would go a long way in the hospitality business".
As for the diamonds, they in the end are found by a homeless man next to a trash can after Luis accidentally runs into him on his way to meet Tony in Meadows Park.
The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony were first announced during Microsoft's 2006 E3 press conference on 9 May 2006. [ 1 ] Peter Moore, then head of Microsoft's Interactive Entertainment Business division, described downloadable content as "epic episode packs", and not just an extra car or character. A press release during the conference said that the expansion packs, both The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony would add "hours of entirely new gameplay" to the game, [ 2 ] with Jeronimo Barrera , Vice-President of Product Development for Rockstar Games , explaining that the episodes were experiments because they were not sure that there were enough users with access to online content on the Xbox 360. [ 3 ] Take-Two Interactive 's chief financial officer, Lainie Goldstein, revealed that Microsoft was paying a total of $50 million for the first two episodes. [ 4 ]
Grand Theft Auto: The Ballad of Gay Tony received positive reviews from critics and fans alike.
Metacritic awarded the Xbox 360 version with 89/100, while the PlayStation 3 version received a slightly lower 87/100.
IGN awarded the expansion pack with 9.2/10.
Eurogamer awarded the expansion pack with 8/10. Tom Bramwell of Eurogamer praised the characters, the new vehicles and weapons, and the mission design. However, he criticized the racism in the first few hours of the game and the shotty controls, ending his review with the statement: "Perhaps Tony Prince does nothing to drag the series forward - somewhat fittingly for a man with his head stuck in the eighties - but the episode Rockstar has named in his honour is a colourful and pleasingly unpredictable adventure that gets better throughout and ends on a high note."
The Ballad of Gay Tony was awarded the Best DLC award at the 2009 Spike Video Game Awards.
Complex awarded Anthony "Gay Tony" Prince as the coolest LGBT video game character in their 2013 list, referring to him as "the hot mess of the GTA series"
October 1, 2013 October 1, 2013 October 10, 2013
October 1, 2013 October 1, 2013 October 10, 2013
November 18, 2014 November 18, 2014 December 11 2014
November 18, 2014 November 18, 2014 December 11 2014
Grand Theft Auto Online , more commonly known as GTA Online , is a story-driven online multiplayer action-adventure game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games . The game was originally released on October 1, 2013 , accessed for free through Grand Theft Auto V . A standalone version of the game was released on March 15, 2022 [ 2 ] , along with the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S versions of GTA V and GTA Online . It is the sixteenth and latest instalment in the Grand Theft Auto series, and the sixth HD Universe title of the series.
Since its original release in 2013, Grand Theft Auto Online is considered by Rockstar North and Rockstar Games as the series' dedicated multiplayer title, set in a continually evolving world designed to grow in size and ambition over time. Unlike its predecessor , the game was never considered as an online component/multiplayer mode for Grand Theft Auto V by the developers. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] The game is also Rockstar Games' most ambitious project since Grand Theft Auto III , and it is claimed the ideas for the online game had been percolating since 2001. [ 5 ]
Grand Theft Auto Online has three distinct editions; the former original edition, for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 , which was shut down on December 16th, 2021; the " enhanced " edition, for the Xbox One , PlayStation 4 and PC and the Expanded & Enhanced version for the PlayStation 5 , Xbox Series X|S and PC , which includes a standalone version that no longer requires Grand Theft Auto V to access.
Free access to the original versions of Grand Theft Auto Online was first granted to Grand Theft Auto V players on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 with patch 1.01 .
As of September 10, 2018, the versions of the game for Windows Vista are no longer available.
As of December 16, 2021 [ 6 ] , the original versions of the game for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 are no longer available.
The game was made available for everyone to purchase as a standalone game for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S in March 2022.
As of January 30, 2024, the versions of the game for Windows 7 and Windows 8, Windows 8.1 are no longer available.
The game is set in Southern San Andreas in the United States and the island of Cayo Perico in the Caribbean region of Colombia . While the game was initially set a few months prior to the events of Grand Theft Auto V in 2013 [ 7 ] [ 8 ] , the narratives of more recent updates, starting with 2017 's Gunrunning update, take place in their respective years of release. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] [ 11 ]
With the most recent content updates, released since the game's 10th anniversary, the narrative of these storyline add-ons depicts current-time events taking place over a decade after its original 2013 timeline [ 12 ] , slowly reaching Grand Theft Auto VI 's timeframe in the mid-2020s [ 13 ] , with modern Leonida -based brands appearing as sponsors. [ 14 ]
A small section of Ludendorff in the State of North Yankton makes a minor appearance exclusively as a Halloween-themed Survival setting.
In GTA Online , players create their own customized characters through the use of a Character Creator tool. Unlike many other games where players can create their own character, physical appearance is not user-defined, but derived from the pre-set parent and grandparent characters that players choose. With the Collectors Edition of the game, several bonus characters from other Rockstar titles make 'cameo' appearances as a possible Mom and Dad in the character creation tool — Grand Theft Auto IV protagonist Niko Bellic can be selected as a parent, along with Claude and Misty from Grand Theft Auto III . Furthermore, if the player has a Rockstar Games Social Club account, John Marston , the protagonist from Rockstar-made Red Dead Redemption , becomes a potential Dad option.
The enhanced version of GTA Online for Xbox One, PlayStation 4 and PC, features a much bigger and in-depth variety of customization options, and players who have transferred their characters from the previous gen (or from the Xbox One/PlayStation 4 in the case of the PC) will have the chance to customize their character again.
Once confirmed, the player's appearance can only be modified at a cost of GTA$100,000 (Enhanced Edition only), although characters can be further customized in-game by purchasing clothing, tattoos , haircuts and masks from shops around Los Santos ; such items can be continually changed or removed as many times as the player desires. As well as appearance, players can also select their character's typical daily activities, which will affect his/her initial skills. Players can create two characters (three other character slots were visible on 7th generation consoles but were locked and could not be used) if they so choose, and any money stored in a bank account will be shared across all characters (although money in the character's pocket and RP do not carry over). The player can also select different actions to be performed by their characters, they can be used during Free Roam and before and after any of the competitive matches.
When speaking into a microphone, the player's character's mouth will move. However, they are generally regarded as very taciturn by non-playable characters. For instance, Trevor often refers to the player as, "My favorite mute." Based on a quote from Brucie Kibbutz , it is implied that if the player calls someone then exits the call, they don't say anything, but rather simply breathes heavily into the phone. Similar comments are made about the player from Agent 14 during The Humane Lab Raid and Lester Crest during The Diamond Casino Heist . In one instance, during the cutscene with Ron Jakowski after buying the Hangar , Ron asks the protagonist why they took so long to come, but as soon as they try to speak they are interrupted by Ron.
The game's narrative begins in 2013, several months before Grand Theft Auto V . Players take on the role of a silent protagonist who moves to Los Santos in search for new pursuits. Upon arrival, they meet with Lamar Davis , whom they befriended on Lifeinvader. After a street race against the player , Lamar introduces them to drug dealer Gerald and corrupt Armenian car salesman Simeon Yetarian for work. As the player slowly builds up their reputation, they attract the attention of individuals like meth dealer Trevor Philips , the hacker Lester Crest , and Mexican drug lord Martin Madrazo , who also employ them.
Eventually, the player is offered bigger job opportunities by Lester, who recruits them to rob a branch of the Fleeca Bank and the main branch of the Pacific Standard Public Deposit Bank ; a shady government agent known only as Agent 14 , who has them break a convicted spy out of prison and raid a government-run lab ; and Trevor, who enlists their help with a highly profitable drug deal . Later, Lamar also hires the player for a few jobs, which mostly consist of sabotaging rival gangs to set the stage for his eventual rise to power . However, this only leads to Lamar having a falling out with his own gang, so he attempts to win back their trust, once again with the player's help. During this time, the player slowly builds up their own criminal empire, starting with an initially small Organization , which is subsequently expanded by purchasing an office and several warehouses to aid the player in the theft and sale of various goods . Some time later, the player also starts a Motorcycle Clubs and begins running additional illicit businesses with a shady contact known as " Long John Teabag ". Later the player purchases a vehicle warehouse to steal, store and sell expensive cars along with an underground garage to store modified vehicles used to do jobs for various clients.
With the 2017's Gunrunning update, the timeline of the events has advanced in real-life timing, and each new update events taking place in their respective release years. By this time, the protagonist continues to expand their empire by purchasing a bunker , from where they conduct a gunrunning operation alongside Agent 14 and a hangar , to help them run a smuggling operation with Trevor's former associate Ron Jakowski .
In the following years living in Southern San Andreas until the early 2020s, the player opens a new nightclub in Los Santos with the help of former Liberty City nightclub entrepreneur Tony Prince and begins using it as a front for their illicit businesses ; becomes a top competitor in a demolition derby-like TV series taking place at the city's Maze Bank Arena ; becomes a VIP member at the newly opened Diamond Casino & Resort and begins assisting the staff with the various problems they are facing; helps a retired Lester Crest plan a robbery of the casino using an arcade business as a front for Georgina Cheng who seeks retribution against Thornton Duggan for tricking her brother Tao into selling him the casino; conducts several new jobs for Gerald, and enters a short-lived conflict with the Kkangpae after they raid their personal yacht , which ends with the player killing the gang's leader ; they are hired by Martin Madrazo's son Miguel to steal some incriminating files of his family along with drugs, cash and gold from the world's most notorious drug dealer and cartel boss, Juan "El Rubio" Strickler , from his private island in the Caribbean region of Colombia using a nuclear submarine ; They later become a member of the LS Car Meet , where they are introduced to Kenny "KDJ" Dixon Jr. and Sessanta , who provide the player with several robbery contracts after they purchase an Auto Shop and prove themselves to them; begins working for the former street hustler now multi-millionaire Franklin Clinton , and helps him get a big client for his new business ; is hired by Agent ULP as a sworn-in IAA special agent to investigate a criminal conspiracy involving local petrochemical magnates ; starts their own LSD business with the help of the Fooliganz gang; help a group of ex-military personel expose Merryweather Security 's government contracts; runs a salvage yard business with Jamal Amir ; performs unofficial police work and disrupts a South American criminal operation with officer Vincent Effenburger ; and runs a bail enforcement agency with Jenette Eccles .
In 2024, the player purchases the Darnell Bros. factory after being contacted by Pavel , who said that he found a new job opportunity, which in turn leads the player working for the former FIB operative Jodi Marshall , pulling off several operations using the FIB's backdoor networks and various gadgets provided by her.
Originally developed to be a regular multiplayer mode for Grand Theft Auto V , Rockstar North development team brought back an old idea they had since the initial development of Grand Theft Auto III [ 17 ] of creating a living GTA massive multiplayer online world. The project was rebooted as an independent multiplayer game titled Grand Theft Auto Online , sharing the same engine and certain features from Grand Theft Auto V but intended to expand over time. According to former Rockstar North president Leslie Benzies, Rockstar choose to release Grand Theft Auto Online in early October 2013, as in their own words, they "wanted it to be known as a different entity, separate from GTA V" .
The game was conceived as a separate experience to be played in a continually evolving world. Up to 30 players freely roam across the game world and enter lobbies to complete jobs (story-driven competitive and cooperative modes). [ 16 ] The Content Creator toolset lets players create their own parameters for custom jobs, like racetracks and deathmatch weapon spawn points. Players may band together in organised player teams called crews to complete jobs together. Rockstar Games Social Club extends crews formed in Max Payne 3' s multiplayer mode to those of Grand Theft Auto Online . Players may create their own crews and join up to five total. Crews win multiplayer matches to earn experience points and climb online leaderboards.
Grand Theft Auto Online launched on 1 October 2013, two weeks after Grand Theft Auto V' s release. Many players reported connection difficulties and game freezes during load screens. Rockstar released a technical patch on 5 October in an effort to resolve the issues, but problems persisted the second week following launch as some players reported their character progress as having disappeared. Another technical patch was released on 10 October combating the issues, and Rockstar offered a GTA$500,000 (in-game currency) stimulus to the accounts of all players connected to GTA Online since launch as recompense. Because of the widespread technical issues present at launch, many reviewers bemoaned their Grand Theft Auto Online experience but generally recognised its open-ended exploration and dynamic content as strengths. [ 19 ]
Post-release content is continually added to Grand Theft Auto Online through free title updates. Some updates add new game modes and features, and others feature themed gameplay content, such as the Independence Day Special update that added patriotic-themed content on 1 July 2014. The widely anticipated Heists update launched on 10 March 2015 and suffered some initial technical difficulties due to the increased user load. Shortly after the game's PC release, some players reported being banned from Grand Theft Auto Online for using field of view and cosmetic mods in single-player. [ 20 ] Rockstar stated in their official blog that nobody had been banned from Online for using single-player mods, but that recent updates to the PC version had the "unintentional effect" of making such mods unplayable. They stated that mods are unauthorised and may cause unforeseen technical problems and instabilities. [ 21 ]
The game consists of open world sessions based in San Andreas. Originally, sessions were limited to 16 players on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. Sessions were expanded to 30 players (with 2 extra spaces for spectators) on PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC.
Players can play Online in a number of different session types:
Until the release of the Heists update, most of the Online content could be played by a single player with no actual multiplayer requirement, however, subsequent content updates have included more co-operative jobs that require a minimum of 2 or 4 players and new Free Mode events and features have been limited to Public lobbies only. This was later changed with the 2020 The Cayo Perico Heist update, which introduced the first Heist that could be played solo. The subsequent updates introduced a "Single-Player Element" [ 22 ] to the game, where all of the new content can be played on Private lobbies by a solo player.
Except for PC and PlayStation 3 users, a PlayStation Plus (for PS4 and PS5 users) or an Xbox Live Gold Subscription is required before playing GTA Online .
Players may travel around and interact with the map at will and can take part in many gameplay activities, including assaults on local gangs, robbing armored trucks, and challenging other players to Impromptu Races . Several of these open world activities are unique to the GTA Online , while others were originally from GTA V . Players can also purchase property, vehicles, clothing, masks and weapons for their character.
Aside from the free roam aspect, GTA Online also includes several localized, more traditional multiplayer game modes known as Jobs that are played in separate sessions independent from the larger open world; players partaking in these jobs will not be visible to and cannot interact with players occupying the open world, even if they inhabit the same location at the same time. These jobs include deathmatches, races, sports activities and horde-like survival games. Lastly, players can also undertake co-operative missions for various crime boss characters, most of whom also make appearances in GTA V's story. The number of players involved and the size of the area available to them in these game modes varies depending on the activity and mode itself.
As players progress and increase the rank of their character, more items and jobs will be unlocked for them to purchase and play. Also included in GTA Online is the Content Creator , a development tool that allows players to create and publish their own races, deathmatches, and other competitive gamemodes.
Additional rewards are given, such as free weapons and double RP, if the player is connected to Rockstar's Social Club and a special event is hosted or a special offer is redeemed by the player. Special bonuses are also available for players who reach Rank 100 and beyond.
When players first select to play GTA Online they are taken through a character creation stage where they can modify their character's appearance and basic characteristics. The game then begins with the player's newly created character arriving at Los Santos International Airport aboard a commercial flight. Upon leaving the airport, the player is met by Lamar Davis , who drives the player into the city. Davis' initial interaction with the player-character varies depending on the player-character's gender.
Lamar serves as a guide through the initial tutorial portion of the game, introducing the player to the basic gameplay mechanics of the Online world. After completing a street race and taking part in a brief mission - disrupting a drug deal - Lamar introduces the player character to Gerald , the first of GTA Online 's mission-giving bosses. At this point, players are granted access to the entire San Andreas map, and are immediately tasked by Lamar with purchasing some new clothing, and then holding up a convenience store. With these tasks completed, the player is contacted by Simeon Yetarian , who guides the player through the process of stealing a car and turning it into a personal vehicle (by fitting it with a tracker and purchasing insurance at a Los Santos Customs mod shop, both of which are free on this occasion). Following the completion of these mandatory activities, the player is introduced to one more job, an LTS, after which the tutorial is complete and players are free to explore the Online map as they wish.
The PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S versions feature the Career Builder , designed to give new players — or anyone who wants to reset their character and get a fresh start — a helpful leg-up in the criminal world of Southern San Andreas, giving them a business property, a vehicle, and a weapon — with room to add useful upgrades and a little extra GTA$ to begin.
Completing virtually any activity in GTA Online rewards players with both money , used for in-game purchases, and Reputation Points (RP). As players gain RP and increase their rank , new items such as weapons, hair styles, clothes and vehicle mods will be unlocked for purchase, while new missions and jobs, such as Parachuting , will become available to play. Some missions may however not reward the player with any money if they are played solo, particularly sport activities in GTA Online . Many high rank missions offer far greater monetary and RP rewards than low rank missions. At higher ranks additional gameplay abilities will also become available through contacts on the player's mobile phone , such as asking Lester Crest to remove a Wanted Level , set a bounty on other players or calling Merryweather to conduct an airstrike.
When the player dies in GTA Online for the first time in Free Mode, Cris Formage appears in a vision telling the player that he is reviving them. He goes on to explain Passive Mode , and the voyeuristic pleasure he derives from watching people without their knowledge. He appears only once, the first time the player dies.
Jobs in GTA Online can either be accessed from the open world, in the form of a blue circular marker (known as a corona) that the player simply walks into to activate the corresponding job, or selected through a list in the pause menu. Jobs have a specified number of possible players, often with an option to play it alone for smaller jobs. Players can either host the jobs themselves or elect to join a job already in progress. The player may also receive job invites from NPC characters, or other players via their phone. These invites will eventually close in real-time as players join and the player quota is reached for each invite.
When a job is launched, an invite screen will launch with various options depending on whether the player initiated the job or joined from an invitation. Before almost any job, players can bet on themselves or other players in order to gain bigger payouts at the end of the job. There are options for the radio station to play during the job, purchasing ammo and armor, starting weapon, time of day and difficulty (with corresponding payout) level. At the end of each job, after gaining any points or money from the job, the player has the option to continue playing with the same players, and is given the opportunity to vote on which job to next complete with that team, a random job, or to return to free mode, leaving the current team of players.
Although several activities from GTA V are available in GTA Online , such as purchasing clothing and sports, there are numerous differences in the gameplay mechanics involved. For instance, police will never attempt to arrest the player in GTA Online , instead shooting to kill even at one star wanted levels. The severity of wanted levels changes depending on the players' actions, with an automatic three star wanted level for killing a police officer, or a four star wanted level for trespassing at Fort Zancudo , where tanks and fighter jets will be scrambled. If a hangar property is purchased at Fort Zancudo, however, the player no longer gets a wanted level when accessing most (but not all) areas of the base.
Many of the characters featured in GTA V re-appear in GTA Online in the form of mission-giving bosses, including (as of 2025) Michael , Trevor and Franklin . Several other boss characters are unique to GTA Online , such as Gerald , although he was first mentioned in GTA V . Chronologically, GTA Online was originally set before the events of GTA V; for example, Martin Madrazo is often found at his house in Vinewood Hills which is destroyed early in GTA V by Michael, while Trevor, aside from the events in the Series A heist, is still based solely in Sandy Shores . Additionally, the player character in GTA Online is briefly mentioned by Lester at the start of the mission Casing the Jewel Store in GTA V , although he dismisses them as "too unpredictable". This timeline has moved in the Enhanced editions with the addition of subsequent DLC containing anachronistic elements and dialogue confirming events were taking place in the present day.
If a player is seen to be creating an excessive negative effect on the Online world, they will accumulate Bad Sport points. When enough of these points are either accumulated through a short period of time (or gathered up for longer periods) the offending player will be moved into a separate match-making pool which will prevent the player from playing with non bad-sport players, people in their friend list included. The player will also be forced to wear a dunce hat (which will be taken off inside vehicles or replaced by motorcycle helmets on bikes). These bad sport points are gathered and bound to a character by destroying personal vehicles belonging to other players, quitting jobs/mission early, submitting false reports and being reported. This system has proven to be a controversial mechanic as the system has several flaws to it as to just how these points are gathered as the game does not take into account whether player reports are illegitimate or not, or if the destruction of another player's vehicle was self-defense. As of title update 1.22, players who are innocently disconnected from a job due to a crash or game fault will not have Bad Sport points applied. A fair balance between players are enforced through this system. The first time the player goes into a bad-sport lobby, the time in bad-sport will be 2 days, then 4 days, then 8 days.
Money. along with RP, is the core basis for the GTA Online economy. Players can purchase almost any item in game including apartments, garages, clothes, cars, aircraft and more. With regular updates to GTA Online these options will continue to change and evolve over time. Money is also required to launch jobs.
Money is earned through most activities in the game: Performing missions, convenience store robberies, selling cars, surviving/killing bounties, completing heists, and more. Rockstar also offers players the option to purchase in game cash using real life money in the form of Shark Cards.
Using their cash players can purchase garages and apartments that allows players to store purchased vehicles. These cars known as personal vehicles can then be used in Free Mode , race modes and in missions. Although the player is able to steal cars and turn them into personal vehicles, high-end vehicles must be purchased through the Legendary Motorsport website.
Properties come in four classes - Garages, ranging from $25k-$100k+, Low-end apartments, ranging from $80k-$120k, Mid-range apartments, varying from $125,000-$150,000, and High-end apartments, ranging from $205k-$400k. High-end apartments include a 10-car garage, the most expensive apartment is the Eclipse Towers Apartment 3 at $500,000, although it is worth noting that all $205k+ apartments have the same interior, and it is the view and location that add the most value. Rockstar has since added $400,000-$500,000 apartments, all of which have a redesigned interior. Since The High Life Update , players are able to own up to two properties, and since the Festive Surprise players can now own a third property. The Lowriders update implemented a fourth property slot, but exclusive to the enhanced version players. The Executives and Other Criminals update allowed players to customize high-end apartments and mansions and yachts are available for purchase, albeit for the enhanced version players only.
The game implements the Rockstar Games Social Club's crew system with two types of crews. Private crews are mainly aimed at a group of friends or associates to play online together and can hold as many as 1,000 people. Public crews are much larger and can have unlimited members. The use of crews and teamwork is heavily encouraged by Rockstar, as the player receives more money in races depending on how many players are in the game, also, the player receives a 10% bonus to RP for playing with friends and 20% for playing with crew members. On top of this, many missions (particularly from Lester and Martin ) involve the use of teamwork to succeed. The crew system in GTA Online also encourages customization and personalization, with the addition of crew emblems that can be placed on vehicles and crew colors.
There are approximately 500 jobs in GTA Online and even more are added as part of DLCs. Jobs can be encountered in many ways, including stumbling on them on the map, calling or receiving a phone call from an NPC, or choosing one of the menu. Races can be entered with modded personal vehicles. Players can also create their own race tracks and deathmatches using the Content Creator .
Missions are received from various characters most of which are present in GTA V . Trevor Philips and Franklin Clinton are the only two of the three central characters to appear in GTA Online , however Lester , Martin Madrazo , Lamar Davis and Ron also make appearances.
In mission lobbies, the player can scroll through a list of players in the current lobby, or invite friends to join. While scrolling, a menu shows up showcasing the highlighted players Driving, Shooting, Flying, Sneaking, and Stamina skills.
Many new things can be done with vehicles in GTA Online . As stated before, cars can be locked to prevent them being stolen, and the player can also buy car insurance just in case their car is stolen during free roam, destroyed, or lost. Once a player has insurance, the car can get destroyed an infinite number of times without ever needing to renew the insurance. However, high-end vehicles (which have a retail value over $100,000) can be stolen and driven in-game, but cannot be made into Personal Vehicles, nor can they be sold or modified at Los Santos Customs (they must be bought legitimately).
Like in Max Payne 3 , players can form Crews using the Rockstar Games Social Club. As a reward for signing up to the Social Club, a free Sawed-Off Shotgun will be available to acquire from Ammu-Nation , as well as the Elegy RH8 from the Legendary Motorsport website.
Players can be in up to 5 crews at one time and perform Heists and other activities together. When players form Crews in GTA Online they can be identified via the crew colour, which would cover half of the outside of their white marker, there is a new Hierarchy system to set ranks amongst players.
Rockstar operates a continual update program for Grand Theft Auto Online , periodically releasing free content updates that introduce new features, vehicles, weapons and game modes into the game. Several of these updates, particularly themed updates based around a particular holiday or significant date, have been time-limited updates that are automatically rendered unavailable again after the update period has expired.
Events are periodic occasions in which discounts and bonuses are typically offered in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Events first appeared after the release of the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 update and soon became a fundamental part of GTA Online in the enhanced release of the game, particularly when content updates for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game were discontinued.
During events, prices of existing content, new and old, are often cut, usually by 25%. As well as this, Double GTA$ and RP is usually awarded on certain game modes. As well as weekly occurrences, events are also prominent in re-releasing exclusive content, mainly during national holidays. Occasionally, major special events are hosted to celebrate the upcoming release of an update, or a major part of GTA Online , or even real-world history.
Available exclusivelly on the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X|S and later on the PC Enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto Online , on March 29, 2022 , Rockstar Games launched GTA+ , a paid subscription service which promised subscribers with extra monthly benefits for membership, including a monthly deposit of GTA$500,000, free vehicles and properties, as well as discounts across the board. [ 23 ]
Grand Theft Auto V is a singleplayer game title, considered a separate game by Rockstar, from which the initial access to GTA Online originated. It can be purchased separately as an add-on for the standalone versions of Grand Theft Auto Online . Players can experience the interwoven stories of Franklin , Michael , and Trevor across the sun-soaked metropolis of Los Santos and the backwoods countryside of Blaine County in greater detail than ever before with stunning all new levels of visual detail. The game shares the same San Andreas map, although set in 2013.
Grand Theft Auto V: Story Mode requires a retail copy of Grand Theft Auto Online to play. Alternatively, players can purchase Grand Theft Auto V as a full game, and get free access to Grand Theft Auto Online through the menus or the Character Wheel .
Grand Theft Auto Online received mixed to positive critical reception from critics and fans alike.
Metacritic awarded the Xbox 360 version with 83/100 and the PlayStation 3 version with 80/100.
VideoGamer.com awarded the game with 9/10. Jon Denton thought the gameplay's "endlessness" made up for its broken launch and he also found progression more streamlined and balanced than before and thought the "grind of just doing PvP until co-op Jobs arrive with regularity" was lost. However, he noted frequent server disconnection, especially during load screens.
GRYOnline.pl awarded GTA Online with a positive 7.5/10, declaring that "the fun is tremendous", but saying that the game's potential is "not fully realized".
Destructoid awarded the game with 7/10, Chris Carter felt the "messy launch" should have been delayed, but he claimed that he had "the most fun in a online game". Carter concluded that "one day GTA Online will reach its true potential with a massive map creation tool and more playable content than pretty much every genre outside of MMOs — of this [he has] no doubt, given how deep Rockstar's coffers are. But for now, it's best to tread lightly until all of the kinks are worked out."
GameSpot originally awarded the game with 7/10 in 2013, but Carolyn Petit of GameSpot later changed the score to 6/10 in her updated review in 2014.
Digital Spy awarded the game with 3 stars out of 5, Liam Martin of Digital Spy heavily criticized the terrible launch; as in his review he said that he lost his character data and considered the technical issues dwarfed his pre-launch anticipation, despite this, he praised the heists' designs as he thought the Heists update encouraged teamwork and "pinpoint coordination".
IGN were the most critical towards GTA Online. Keza MacDonald of IGN panned the disastrous launch of the game, she also felt that gameplay's "addictive rhythm" eventually faltered as errands became a monotony. Dan Stapleton of IGN reported low player counts in matches, long wait times in lobbies, server disconnection and occasional crashes, he commented on his review: "I can't strongly recommend... the multiplayer experience alone". Ryan McCaffrey of IGN however praised the addictive gameplay loop of GTA Online , as he found high replay value in the heists' volatile action. To this day, GTA Online hasn't been given a rating by IGN as of 2023.
Reception has improved over time. VG247's Patrick Garratt felt the San Andreas Flight School update incentivised player engagement with the oft-neglected aircraft missions by offering more liberal reward payouts. Eurogamer's Stanton enjoyed the strategic planning necessary to pull off a successful heist and thought players were required to think on their feet and adapt to changing scenarios. He further noted occasional gameplay pacing issues and technical hiccups such as mid-mission server disconnection.
If a banned player plays Story Mode, a notification will periodically appear above the minimap telling them when their ban expires.
If a player is reported by enough players or is discovered to be using identifiable cheats (such as a mod menu ) by Rockstar's automated anti-cheat system, there is a chance that they may be banned from GTA Online . With each ban, the player's characters are completely reset back to Level 0, deleting all progress they had in the game. All vehicles, properties, businesses and stats are also reset. All money is also reset, minus any Shark Cards (they are deposited into the player's bank).
The first time a player is banned, the banning period is 30 days. The second ban is permanent.
Before October 2016, a player could receive a first ban of 14 days, the second one of 30 days, and the third one being permanent. Players did not lose all their progress, only losing their illegitimate funds.
This feature is arguably one of the more controversial features of GTA Online , since some players claimed to be banned innocently for using programs that hook an overlay (for example, Skype). This also includes hackers being able to easily evade bans whereas other, non-hacking players, were banned with viable evidence often being turned down.
Original 2013 promotional artwork.
Original 2019 Social Club artwork.
Standalone version release artwork.
Valentine's Day variation, first seen during the Be My Valentine Event in 2016 .
A snowy variation first used during Festive Surprise 2015 .
Stenciled variation used for the Gunrunning update.
Black variation used for the After Hours update.
Purple variation used for The Diamond Casino & Resort update.
"Summer" variation used for the Los Santos Summer Special update.
Gold variation used for The Cayo Perico Heist update.
Green variation used for The Contract update.
March 20, 2009
October 23, 2009
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars is a 2009 action-adventure video game developed by Rockstar Leeds in association with Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games for the Nintendo DS , Sony PlayStation Portable , iOS , and Android devices. It was originally released on March 17, 2009. It is the thirteenth installment in the Grand Theft Auto series and the fourth HD Universe title of the series. It is also the fourth title to be specifically developed for handheld consoles.
The game is played from an isometric 3D perspective , with a rotatable aerial camera that allows the player to dynamically change angles during action sequences; unlike previous top-down titles in the series, GTA Chinatown Wars uses fully cel shaded 3D graphics and comic book-styled cutscenes . It features all four boroughs of Liberty City ( Algonquin , Bohan , Broker , and Dukes ), faithfully adapted for its timeline of events and for the Nintendo DS hardware. The State of Alderney is absent due to the lack of relevance to the Triads' story.
Upon release, GTA Chinatown Wars was critically acclaimed by critics, with praise directed towards its gameplay, mission design, visuals and general quality as a mature-rated handheld game, although it also saw controversy for its inclusion of a drug dealing minigame. The game's original release was noted as below developer Rockstar's expectations, selling under 900,000 over its first two weeks on the American market.
A port for the Sony PSP was released on October 20, 2009, featuring enhanced visuals and additional missions. GTA Chinatown Wars was later released on iOS devices in 2010, and Android devices in 2014. All ports received critical acclaim, with critics citing the new edition's enhanced features and controls.
The game is set in Liberty City in the year 2009, one year after the events seen in Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City .
The game's story follows the adventures of Huang Lee , the spoiled son of a Triad boss . Following the murder of his father and the theft of their family sword, Huang begins to work for several high-profile figures in Liberty City's Asian scene to find out the truth behind his father's death and the sword.
Huang Lee , the game's protagonist .
Huang Lee, the spoiled son of a recently murdered Triad boss, arrives by plane in Liberty City bringing Yu Jian with him, a sword that Huang's father won in a poker game, intending it to be used as an heirloom, to deliver it to the new patriarch of the family, Huang's uncle Wu "Kenny" Lee . Shortly after landing, Huang's escorts are killed by assassins and he is shot (a bullet grazes the side of his head, but he survives) and kidnapped. The assailants steal the sword and, thinking Huang is dead, dump his body in the water . Huang manages to survive and informs Kenny that Yu Jian has been taken. Kenny explains that he had intended to offer the sword to Hsin Jaoming , the aging Triad boss in Liberty City, as a means of securing a position as his replacement. Kenny has been dishonored and reduced in power due to the loss of Yu Jian, leaving him and Huang working to keep their businesses afloat.
Eventually, Huang is contacted by Zhou Ming , a high-ranking Triad member, and Chan Jaoming , son of Hsin. Both men are also competing to be Hsin's replacement, and employ Huang to combat each other's efforts. After Chan hires Huang for a deal that goes badly, LCPD detective Wade Heston , a crooked undercover cop under pressure from Internal Affairs , intercepted Huang. Heston offers an alliance with Huang to find the men responsible for the theft of Yu Jian and the murder of Huang's father. Huang agrees and finds that Heston suspects a Korean gang allied with the Triads is behind the events. After combating the Koreans for a while, Heston plants a bug in the Koreans' headquarters, from which he learns that there is a splinter group inside the gang called the Wonsu Nodong . Heston determines that the leader of the Wonsu is the one responsible for Yu Jian's theft and is a police informant who has been causing trouble for the Triads.
Meanwhile, Hsin enlists Huang in finding the informant, only to then suspect Huang himself and attempt to kill him. Kenny arrives and convinces Hsin to give them time to find the real rat, bringing haste to Huang's mission. Hsin enlists Huang to investigate two gangs who may be housing the rat: the Angels of Death and the Korean Mob . Huang gets into contact with Lester Leroc , a PI inside the Angels of Death and performs his own work against the Koreans. Huang is temporarily thrown off course by the intervention of mafia member Rudy D'Avanzo , who tricks Huang into believing the mole is a Messina Family member named Jimmy Capra . Hsin later reveals D'Avanzo's trickery and Huang kills him.
Both the Koreans and the Angels are determined innocent, leading to a new course of investigation. Heston employs Huang to hack into the servers of the FIB in order to find the informant. The information revealed two names, Zhou Ming and Chan Jaoming, as having talked to the police about the Triads. This is taken to Hsin, who, disgraced that his own son is a suspect, instantly steps down as leader and appoints Kenny as the new head of the Liberty City Triads. Huang then executes both Chan and Zhou, despite each denying their guilt. Shortly after the killings, Heston, who informs him that the information they recovered was fake and that he has learned of a meeting between the leader of the Wonsu and his allies, contacts Huang. Huang and Heston go to the meeting and find Kenny, who admits that he was responsible for the theft of Yu Jian and Huang's father's death. Heston and Huang pursue Kenny across town, cornering him at Hsin's residence . Here, Kenny explains that he was tasked by Hsin to retrieve Yu Jian, thus Huang's father would have to die for it to be passed on to him, in exchange for a position underneath Chan. Kenny complied with this, but attempted to have Yu Jian stolen to keep himself from such a dishonorable position and later framed Zhou and Chan to cover his tracks.
After a final confrontation between Hsin and Kenny, Hsin demands the hand over of Yu Jian. Kenny ironically responds by stabbing Hsin with the sword as his way of presenting it to him. With Huang as witness to the murder and truth, Kenny engages in an inevitable final battle with Huang, who is the only one left in the way of Kenny's undisputed rise to power. Centered on a fountain with Kenny slashing away, Huang eventually kills Kenny, fulfilling his promise to avenge his father. Immediately the IAD and FIB arrive to arrest Heston and Huang, however Heston claims that he was in deep undercover and orders the arrest of everyone except Huang. On the floor and bleeding profusely, Hsin praises Huang with the loyalty and nobility to become his true successor as Triad boss, to which Huang has no immediate answer. Heston orders the FIB cops to arrest everyone in the building, including Hsin, but tells them not to arrest Huang because "he is a good kid even for a rich snot".
By completion of the story and locating the two Lions of Fo for the Rockstar Games Social Club , one can open up Xin Shan 's missions. Xin instructs Huang to steal a Rhino to distract the police from a planned robbery. However, the cops ambush Xin; Huang attempts to take him to safety, but he succumbs to his injuries. Before his death, he makes the revelation that he is the brother of Ling Shan , a girl who was murdered early on in the game. Huang mourns for both of them.
GTA Chinatown Wars has a different presentation than any previous game in the GTA series. Instead of a third person ground-level view behind the protagonist ( Grand Theft Auto III – Grand Theft Auto IV ) or a top-down perspective ( Grand Theft Auto , Grand Theft Auto 2 , Grand Theft Auto Advance ), GTA Chinatown Wars uses a fully isometric rotatable aerial camera angled down at the action. This angle allows the camera to rotate dynamically during action sequences, and is only featured in this game out of the entire Grand Theft Auto series. The game uses a basic lock-on system for combat, which yields variable results, as sometimes the system locks on to vehicles instead of enemies. The game also locks on automatically when using melee weapons . One of the main features of the game, which distinguishes GTA Chinatown Wars from the rest of the series, is the PDA . This is where many of the game's features are been accessed from, including the Ammu-Nation online shop and Trade Info, which is used in the drug dealing side feature. The PDA is also how the protagonist receives missions in the game in the form of emails, which is a substitute for the lack of voice acting in the game. While the isometric perspective may be beneficial in some ways, there are many downfalls. If one were to go under a building or other structure, the character would be unseeable. Also, this feature can make an iOS device run especially slow when not connected to WiFi.
GTA Chinatown Wars re-introduces over-the-top gameplay, like in 3D Universe games such as Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , and to a lesser extent The Ballad of Gay Tony . The player can once again obtain and use weapons such as the minigun , flamethrower , and chainsaw . The game also reintroduces vehicles such as the Rhino, Bulldozer and the Speeder . Emergency side missions such as Firefighter and Paramedic , as well as the Taxi Driver side mission driving also return.
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars was developed by Rockstar Leeds in conjunction with Rockstar North .
Development began due to mutual interest in the project by developer Rockstar Games and console creator Nintendo . On 15 July 2008, it was announced at a Nintendo press conference that Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars would be released to the Nintendo DS in the following winter. According to Nintendo World Report, GTA Chinatown Wars contains over 900,000 lines of "hand-optimized" code, making it one of the most complex Nintendo games to be made. [ 1 ]
If the player was to somehow force the game into the standard third-person camera, they would see the whole city mostly as it appeared in GTA IV . Rockstar Leeds chose the pseudo top-down camera angle in order to make the most use of the DS' limited screen real estate; the camera freely rotates. The fact is, the game isn't being played on a 50-inch plasma, so Rockstar Leeds had to design the game as such. [ 2 ]
Commenting on how gameplay in GTA Chinatown Wars would contrast to earlier games in the series, Rockstar Leeds studio director Gordon Hall said, "With GTA Chinatown Wars we wanted to bring something very new to the GTA series, whilst being proudly aware of its lineage. The early top down games were all about delivering concentrated arcade action and the new perspective given to the series after GTA III clearly gave a literal three-dimensionality to the games complemented by increased narrative and gameplay depth. With GTA IV , we had this massively re-imagined world of Liberty City and the way we interacted with its inhabitants via modern technology. GTA Chinatown Wars takes aspects of all of the various iterations of the series and blends it with the fresh, exciting gameplay possibilities that the DS platform offers." [ 3 ]
Hall would go on to add "since Chinatown Wars was conceived as a broadly more arcade-feeling game, deciding to ramp up the mayhem to the levels of I and II - and beyond - was a no-brainer. In fact most of the early development was spent making bigger and bigger explosions, throwing cars and peds around and generally seeing how far we could push the action. Unquestionably this paid off - CTW is wildly kinetic - something that no screenshot can ever do justice to." [ 3 ]
Rampages make a return in GTA Chinatown Wars . "We were enormously excited to bring the rampages back, since they're a great thing for a handheld GTA - little slices of instant manic action. But at the same time, we recognised that they'd been in a lot of GTA games, and we needed to change the formula a little to keep them fresh and interesting to players... You're not restricted to using just one gun any more, but you're given a weapon and you'll earn bonuses for using it. We've also put bonus multipliers in to reward quick action." [ 3 ]
When designing the weapons which would be included in GTA Chinatown Wars , Rockstar Leeds aimed to make gunplay as fun as possible. "We wanted massive explosions and lots of gratifying feedback happening in front of you, it's great to be able to destroy lots of stuff onscreen! Again, it's all in the details, peds on fire need to look right, they are thrown backwards when shot or affected by explosions... The range of weapons was defined quite early in terms of their iconic status and gameplay value. For instance, a fire extinguisher is of limited use, but a flamethrower - untold fun." [ 3 ]
Hall also added that "once we had a core range of weapons, they had to be balanced perfectly - nothing ruins a game quicker than an over-powerful weapon taking all the challenge out of it. We also introduced thrown weapons as a secondary attack, so you can be in the middle of a gun fight and throw a molotov using the touch screen without breaking the action to switch away from your gun." [ 3 ]
Many vehicles were added to GTA Chinatown Wars , all handling differently with their own damage modelling. On this, Gordon Hall commented "There are over 100 different vehicles over 100 different vehicles Counting gang variants. 70 unique vehicles in-game. in the game – most of which have multiple paintjobs; again, this was an early decision - we wanted all the aspects of the world to be as varied as possible and seeing carbon copies of cars rolling down the street was simply unacceptable. GTA fans would expect every vehicle to handle differently, and we try very hard not to disappoint GTA fans." [ 3 ]
On damage, Hall noted "it wasn't an easy thing to pull off either, if you look at the cars, there is detailing that you would expect to see on a 'console' version - fenders, grilles, working tail lights and indicators - even smash-able headlights. The damage system is very comprehensive, you can break all the major hinges on doors and bonnets (hoods), pop out all the lights, and if you like, you might end up with a car that even a wreckers yard would turn away. Details like this make the game fun to play for a long time." [ 3 ]
On handling, Hall added "we had a full time team on this from beginning to very near the end consisting at its core of a very clever physics coder and our driving supreme designer. Everyone had a hand in making these vehicles feel sweet as a nut, but these guys were there day in day out ensuring the pay off would be massive." [ 3 ]
The game features most criminal organizations that were previously seen in Grand Theft Auto IV , with the exception of those who were disbanded or wiped out .
Due to poor sales (in comparison to other Grand Theft Auto titles) of the DS version of the game, Rockstar decided to put the game on the PlayStation Portable. In October 2009, it was released and features new missions given by Melanie Mallard . The graphics were updated and, due to the differences between the two consoles, all the action was condensed to one screen, with the touch screen minigames replaced by quick time events . The PSP version includes a more diverse soundtrack of eleven radio stations, compared to five in the DS version.
An Apple iPhone version of GTA Chinatown Wars was announced on 31 August 2009, and on 17 January 2010 , was released on the App Store. It cost $4.99 (originally $9.99). The graphics have reverted to the DS style, but have been updated with better colours and textures. It also features Independence FM , a custom radio station, where players can create a playlist of their favorite iTunes songs. The initial release required 186MB of storage memory on the iPhone/iPod touch [ 4 ] and included the same soundtrack radio stations as the DS version. Since 28 March 2010, an updated version includes the six radio stations that were exclusive to the PSP version. The additional music increased the size of the game to 232MB. On 9 June 2010, Take-Two Interactive revealed that an iPad version would be released within a month. The iPhone/iPod Touch version has no multiplayer feature, and does not have support for the Rockstar Games Social Club unlike the other two versions.
A free demo version for the iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad was released around the same time as the full game, but was removed from the app store in 2015. It features the first three missions ( Yu Jian , Pursuit Farce , and Under the Gun ) and full access to Liberty City and cars except for the MK GT9 and Style SR . If the player tries to go back to Kenny for Payback , the player will be asked to purchase the full version after the cutscene is finished. All radio stations were removed, with the exception of Deadmau5 and Ticklah ; also, a substantial number of in-game services like the Auto Merchant and drug dealing were removed. All unique stunt jumps , surveillance cameras , and side missions were also gone. Safehouses are unusable.
Chinatown Wars Fortune Cookie was an app on the social media website Facebook that advertised for the release of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars . It allowed sending ironic sayings that are based on sets of fortune cookies. The user could also create their own sayings. There was a total of 50 fortunes in English. The back of each fortune cookie revealed a Chinese word. The Facebook app existed for about a year or two and has since been a blank screen.
Upon release, Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars received overwhelming critical acclaim by many game reviewers for its technical impressiveness, and gameplay and visual uniqueness.
Official Nintendo Magazine rated the game 94% out of a 100%, praising the visuals and the variety in gameplay, concluding in their review that "Rockstar has captured and condensed the Grand Theft Auto series' high points and crammed them into one terrific title. Think the DS can't handle GTA ? Think again."
IGN UK gave it a rating of 9.2 out of 10, calling it "a masterpiece of handheld gaming", while IGN US gave the game a 9.5 out of 10.
Eurogamer gave it a rating of 10/10, saying "Overall this is GTA as it first was, with the inherited wisdom of GTA as it's been since, finished off with all sorts of things that would happily belong in a GTA of the future."
1UP.com gave it an A−, saying that "from the start, Chinatown Wars looks impressive".
GTA Chinatown Wars has sold over a million copies. Despite the modest sales, it was deemed a commercial failure by Rockstar and Take-Two, making it the second worst selling Grand Theft Auto game in the series, only ahead of Grand Theft Auto Advance .
To this day, GTA Chinatown Wars is still the highest rated Nintendo DS game on Metacritic .
1UP.com gave the PSP version an A−, citing the experience is good the second time around, and it is efficient for people who are playing for the first time.
IGN gave the PSP version a 9.3/10. Despite the lower score then the DS version, it still received an overwhelmingly positive score from IGN .
SKOAR! gave the version a 9/10, with the only complaint that the reviewer had is that "it feels a bit too easy".
IGN's Levi Buchanan gave the game a 9.0/10, calling it "a phenomenal play".
There has been some controversy over a drug dealing minigame, along with comments that most Nintendo games are aimed at children. The drug dealing mini-game allows one to peddle six types of drugs around the city, but the profit the player makes depends on market conditions, which will be based on the area in which one deals, and the amount of service this area regularly receives from the player.
October 29, 2004
Grand Theft Auto Advance (also referred to as GTA Advance and marketed simply as Grand Theft Auto ) is a video game created and developed by Digital Eclipse under supervision of Rockstar Studios [ 3 ] [ 4 ] , outsourced by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games , released on October 26, 2004 [ 5 ] for the Game Boy Advance .
The game is played from a top-down perspective, similar to the series' 2D Universe games ( Grand Theft Auto , London 1969 , London 1961 , Grand Theft Auto 2 ). However, GTA Advance also borrows several aspects from the more recent 3D Universe games ( Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City ), including vehicle-based side missions (such as vigilante), the heads up display and the inclusion of new weapons.
Originally meant to be a Game Boy Advance port of Grand Theft Auto III during its development, GTA Advance is set in the 3D Universe timeline of the series, and serves as a prequel to the events of Grand Theft Auto III , taking place one year prior .
GTA Advance's logo, seen in the main menu.
The game is set in 2000 , one year before the events of GTA III , and it is set in Liberty City , the GTA city that appeared, most prominently, in Grand Theft Auto III . Indeed the earliest announcement of this game was that it would be a port of GTA III , but at some point in development (it is unclear exactly when this occurred) this idea was rejected, most likely due to technical limitations and the time needed to reconstruct the previous game's missions in the new two-dimensional environment.
Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto Advance .
The game that was actually released is a prequel to GTA III , taking place one year prior to the events in GTA III . As it takes place in GTA III 's Liberty City, familiar landmarks re-appear and the overall street layout is the same. However the locations of familiar secrets such as rampages and hidden packages and jump ramps have all been changed, so players familiar with the city's corners and alleyways in GTA III will have to explore them afresh in GTA Advance . The city's three islands have been noticeably changed in its conversion and elements impossible to interpret to a top-view perspective, so there are no longer any sloped surfaces, and the tunnels and train system have been removed. The city in GTA Advance is bigger than in GTA III , especially Portland (see image on the left).
The game's protagonist is called Mike , with some of the GTA III characters re-appearing in the game, including bomb-shop owner 8-Ball and the Yakuza co-leader Asuka Kasen . However, none of the Mafia characters from GTA III appear, and entirely new characters such as Vinnie (Mike's friend and first employer), Cisco (the leader of the Colombian Cartel ), Jonnie (a bar tender) and Yuka (Asuka's niece) have been added. Several characters which were only referenced in GTA III are now met face-to-face, such as King Courtney , the Uptown Yardies boss. It is also the only game in the 3D Universe that allows the player to change the plot by making choices, though they will all lead to the same ending.
Mike, the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto Advance .
Mike is a small-time criminal, working for the more connected Vinnie . They decide to leave Liberty City together and try their luck elsewhere, but Vinnie convinces Mike to do some tasks for their sometimes-employers, the Mafia at Momma's Restaurante in Saint Mark's , prior to leaving. During one of these missions , Vinnie is apparently killed in a car bomb , taking his and Mike's money with him. For this, Mike swears revenge. Mike then works for 8-Ball , an associate of Vinnie's, who offers to help with Mike's quest. Mike does various jobs for him before 8-Ball suggests that he works for a bartender named Jonnie , who is also connected to the criminal underworld. Mike does some work for Jonnie including looking after his drunk girlfriend while Jonnie helps looking into Vinnie's death. Mike is slightly annoyed by Jonnie's paranoia but it later proves true when Mike finds Jonnie has been killed while Mike was on a loan shark job. Mike notices the assailants leaving the bar are members of the Uptown Yardies . Mike pursues the Yardies to Staunton Island .
Eventually Mike confronts Yardie leader, King Courtney . Courtney denies that he was responsible saying he is also looking for the killer because Jonnie owed the Yardies money. While Mike does some jobs for the Yardies, it becomes apparent that they are using him, this is confirmed when Courtney sends Mike to go after Cisco , leader of the Colombian Cartel and rival of the Yardies. Mike, believing that Cisco is the culprit, faces off against the gang leader at a restaurant. Cisco finally warns Mike of Courtney's treachery. Mike then works for Cisco and the Cartel, and also finds himself helping the Yakuza , when Asuka Kasen sends Mike to rescue her niece Yuka (who, ironically, was kidnapped by Mike while working for Cisco). Mike finds himself working for the two leaders of gangs feuding with each other, but does the work regardless as both Cisco and Asuka agree to look into Vinnie's death. Mike then unexpectedly finds Cisco dead, Mike speculates that the culprit is Vinnie's and Jonnie's killer. Mike begins to pursue the assailants car, not before being temporarily beset by men hired to protect the killer. Mike eventually crashes the escaping car and the criminal behind this is revealed to be Vinnie, who faked his death and was conspiring against Mike the whole time. Vinnie and his bodyguards engage in a shootout with Mike before Vinnie is wounded. Vinnie begs for his life, but Mike refuses to listen. Before Mike kills him, Vinnie warns Mike that in the event of his death, any criminal greedy enough will definitely go after him, but Mike doesn't take heed to this and finishes him off.
Later Mike meets 8-Ball (who failed to warn Mike about Vinnie). The two are suddenly attacked by the Colombians who blame Mike for Cisco's death. After a lengthy fight, police suddenly attack, and 8-Ball is arrested (setting the stage for his escape in the Grand Theft Auto III intro ), but Mike manages to escape. Mike tries to get even with Cisco's successor who tells him that King Courtney has called a hit out on Mike for his money (as the late Vinnie warned). Mike later goes across the city massacring the Yardies' hitmen. Mike meets Asuka who offers to help him kill King Courtney. Mike and several Yakuza members meet at the Yardies hideout. The Yakuza flee forcing Mike to face King Courtney and his men alone. A climactic fight ensues resulting in Mike nearly killing Courtney who surrenders and begs for his life. Suddenly, the LCPD raid the area, but Mike manages to elude them after a climatic chase. Mike then boards Cisco's plane and flees Liberty City with joy, his journey across the city complete.
Each time a player gets in a car, it will play a looped, instrumental version of a single song. Songs serve as the "radios" in this game, and (with the exception of Slumpussy's "This Life", from GTA ) they are from GTA 2 . The following songs are featured:
Gameplay of GTA Advance .
Grand Theft Auto Advance was developed by Digital Eclipse, in collaboration with Rockstar North . The game originally began development under Crawfish Interactive; however, this studio went defunct in November 2002, ending the possibility of a 2003 release. It was at this point that Susan Cummings, an employee at Rockstar, was tasked with finding another studio to work on the project. Through her prior relationships with Mike Mika and Andrew Ayre at Digital Eclipse, she was able to hand them the deal. [ 6 ]
Where the story is concerned, Mika says Digital Eclipse initially pitched several ideas, " but ultimately, Rockstar was like, 'Nope, this is how the story's gonna be' and it was better than anything we were coming up with. But we ended up contributing to a lot of that. " Digital Eclipse's James Stanley , who was also a producer, accepted responsibility for fleshing out the game's story from the initial brief. His job was to create new missions and craft new dialogue. [ 6 ]
The game had to be adapted to the Game Boy Advance's hardware limitations. As a result it does not have voice acting or animated cutscenes, nor does it have much-lauded pedestrian dialog of GTA III . All cutscenes are text-only with line-art pictures of the characters' faces, sometimes with a thematic backdrop behind. The art style is consistent with that used for the cover and loading art of the three-dimensional releases in the series. Replacing the pedestrian dialog, some sound effects taken from GTA III are played when the player hits someone's car, but there is a limited variety, leading to much repetition.
Promotional poster for GTA Advance .
Even though the game is fixed in a 2D environment, the developers managed to throw in a few tricks to give the game a more 3D look and feel. Buildings that rise up into the sky actually move in perspective to the camera using a 3D shifting effect, vehicles will actually lean to the left and right as their weight shifts through a turn and Liberty City isn't just a bunch of cross-streets - there are over and underpasses, with the engine turning the car transparent when players drive it underneath a bridge. Liberty City in the Game Boy Advance version is nearly three times the size of the incarnation in the PlayStation 2 GTA III game. [ 7 ] Dan Shallock , lead artist at Digital Eclipse, elaborated: " The buildings were the only kind of fake 3D-engine thing that we did. With those, we would just render a side view square, and then Cathryn kind of 3D mapped those onto the side of buildings, but everything else was just sprite work, you know, so going back that was just classic Game Boy sprite work. " [ 6 ]
The game does not feature radio channels. Like the Game Boy Color ports of GTA and GTA 2 , each car has one fixed tune that is constantly repeated and cannot be changed. These include parts of some familiar GTA and GTA 2 tunes, in instrumental versions.
These limitations, coupled with the game being released on the same day as its highly anticipated cousin Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , caused the game to be widely criticized by fans. [ 8 ]
Grand Theft Auto Advance received mixed to average reception, with critics praising the game for improving on the 2D formula while criticizing the gameplay and graphics.
Game Chronicles awarded the game with 8.8; Loki of Game Chronicles gave his final thoughts on GTA Advance with the following statement: "If you are a sucker for pretty graphics and a rich narrative then you had better stick with the console versions of Grand Theft Auto , but anyone looking for an excellent handheld version of the game will delight in the complexity this title has to offer. And if you have ever played the original versions of GTA , either on Dreamcast or PS1 then you can relive some of those fond memories as well."
IGN awarded the game with 8.5/10; Craig Harris of IGN said that the game "does a good job of looking like the old GTA games." and "vastly improves on the originals, and fixes the game so much that it's now a great, recommended action title."
GameInformer awarded the game with 7.5/10.
GameSpot awarded the game with a less favorable 6.5/10. Jeff Gerstmann commented on his GameSpot review that "bringing the classic GTA gameplay back is a neat idea, but the execution here is weighted down by the lame story, straight-laced dialogue and the technical issues."
1UP.com were the least favorable towards GTA Advance , awarding the game with a D+. They stated in their review that "It attempts to re-create the top-down style of those antiquated games, but ends up feeling like a patchwork of redundant fetch quests tied together by an all-too-tedious story" and ending their review with the following statement: "If anything, GTA Advance reminds us just how far this series has come. The deep gameplay of recent entries makes a poor leap to the portable screen, with flat visuals and highly repetitive sounds."
Metacritic awarded the game with 68/100, making it the lowest rated (excluding The Definitive Edition ) games in the series.
Grand Theft Auto Advance reportedly has sold less then 250,000 copies, making it one of the worst selling Grand Theft Auto game in the series.
Thomas "Tommy" Vercetti is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . He is also mentioned in The Introduction , a prequel short film to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , and in the game itself in the mission The Meat Business by former friend and lawyer Ken Rosenberg .
Tommy was voiced by late movie actor Ray Liotta , making him the first protagonist in the series with a voice actor.
Tommy is a former member of the Forelli Crime Family in Liberty City who, after being released from prison following a fifteen-year sentence, is sent to Florida to oversee a major drug deal with the Vance Crime Family in Vice City . When that deal is ambushed, resulting in both the drugs and the money being lost, Tommy begins searching for the person behind the attack, working for various prominent figures of Vice City's criminal underworld in return for answers.
Over time, Tommy builds his own criminal empire and eventually finds the man responsible for the ambush, killing him and taking over his business. Now in charge of his own organization, the Vercetti Gang , Tommy subsequently attempts to expand it, ultimately eliminating all competition and becoming the undisputed kingpin of Vice City.
Thomas Vercetti was born in Liberty City circa 1951 . His father worked in a printing shop and, as a child, Tommy used to clean the rollers with him. Tommy had planned to follow in his father's footsteps, but, in his own words, "lived a different life". Dialogue spoken by Tommy while fighting indicates that he had a bad relationship with his mother, while his carjacking dialogue indicates that he's been living a life of crime for twenty years . In his childhood, Tommy befriended his future employer Sonny Forelli . [ 4 ]
Sometime prior to 1971 , Tommy joined the Forelli Crime Family , one of the three main Mafia families in Liberty City and the most powerful one at the time. He continued to work with the family, rising in the ranks and presumably becoming a made man by the time he was 20 years old.
In 1971, Sonny Forelli, the head of the family, sent Tommy to kill a man in Harwood . During the hit, Tommy was ambushed by a group of eleven assassins, but managed to survive by killing all of them and it is unknown if these men that attack him in Harwood are members of the Leone Crime Family or Sindacco Crime Family . It is speculated that Sonny himself orchestrated the ambush, though this was never confirmed. Despite acting in self-defense, Tommy was arrested and convicted of eleven counts of murder. He was initially sentenced to death for the murders, but his sentence was commuted. Tommy remained in prison for fifteen years and was nicknamed "the Harwood Butcher" by the press.
In 1986 , Tommy is released from prison after Sonny "pulls some strings". Fearing that Tommy is "too well known" in Liberty City, and wanting to expand the drug trade in the south, Sonny sends Tommy to Vice City. Tommy flies to Vice City alongside Harry and Lee , meeting Ken Rosenberg at the airport , before immediately driving to a drug deal at the docks. The deal turns into an ambush, and Harry, Lee, and one of the drug dealers are killed by a group of mercenaries . Only Tommy, Ken, and the other dealer escape the attack.
Tommy informs Sonny of the ambush and is reminded that Sonny is "not a man to be screwed with"; Sonny makes it clear he wants his money and his drugs back. Tommy initially works for Ken. While working for Ken, Tommy also meets Lance Vance, the other dealer, who seeks revenge for his brother who was killed during the initial drug deal. Tommy also works for Juan Cortez , an intermediary for the drug deal, who begins to look into the ambush for Tommy. Meanwhile, Cortez has Tommy steal missile technology chips and kill Gonzalez , who had talked about the deal.
Cortez, believing that Ricardo Diaz was responsible for the ambush, asks Tommy to act as protection for Diaz in a deal with the Cubans . The Haitians , enemies of the Cubans, ambush the deal but are killed by Tommy and Lance. Diaz, seeing potential in Tommy and Lance, hires them to kill the gang members who were stealing his money and to steal the fastest boat in the city in order to purchase drugs from a dealer on a boat. Lance eventually attempts to kill Diaz for the death of his brother, but is captured by Diaz's men , though he is later freed by Tommy. The two subsequently go on to take revenge, killing Diaz in his own mansion .
The death of Ricardo Diaz brings change to Vice City, allowing Tommy and Lance to step in and continue the crime ring established by Diaz. Tommy, however, begins to look beyond the protection rackets established by Diaz and purchases a number of businesses around the city, most prominently the Malibu Club , the Cherry Popper Ice Cream Factory (a front for a drug running business), Sunshine Autos , InterGlobal Films and the Print Works . After purchasing each business, Tommy helps establish their influence in the city. During this time, Tommy also begins to work for a number of smaller time criminals in the city, including the Cuban leader Umberto Robina and the Haitian leader Auntie Poulet (due to her drugging him), helping both sides attack the other. He also works for Avery Carrington 's real estate business, Phil Cassidy 's gun running business, Mr. Black 's hitman business, Mitch Baker 's biker gang , and Kent Paul 's management of Love Fist . Tommy also goes on to help Juan Cortez escape the city when the GIGN assault his yacht for the missile technology.
Sonny, growing restless and impatient, eventually sends some of his men to collect some of his money from Tommy's businesses. Tommy kills the collectors, although not in time to save Earnest Kelly , the foreman of the Print Works, from being injured. Tommy decides to give Sonny fake money printed at the Print Works. Tommy meets Sonny in person at his estate to give him the counterfeit cash, but Sonny informs him that Lance has sided with him, betraying Tommy. Tommy accuses Sonny of having set up the ambush in Harwood; in response, Sonny says that he owns Tommy and that the fifteen years of incarceration were Sonny's to spend. A gun battle ensues, with Tommy killing both Lance and Sonny. Following the deaths of Lance and Sonny, Tommy and Ken, with no one left to oppose them, become the most powerful men in Vice City.
Tommy Vercetti continued to run the criminal underworld of Vice City after 1986; during that time, Tommy's relationship with Ken became increasingly strained due to Ken's cocaine addiction. Tommy eventually got Ken into rehab at the Fort Carson Medical Center in Fort Carson , San Andreas . Although Ken completed rehab and got clean of his addiction by 1992 , Tommy refused to speak to him following this and essentially cut all ties.
Tommy is mentioned by Ken in the mission The Meat Business in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , leading Carl Johnson to question, " Who the fuck is Tommy? " Rosenberg also calls Vercetti during the introduction video of the aforementioned game, Tommy's secretary answers and tells Ken that Tommy is not taking calls. This is the moment when Rosenberg discovers that Vercetti was ignoring him.
Tommy is also mentioned on Kent Paul's website in 2002 under the list of social problems of the 1980s, saying, "(see, Tom, I didn't mention your name, nowhere. Maybe you won't get us killed now, okay?)" This could mean that Tommy is still alive and in power during the early 2000s.
"remember Tommy u r still my hero" – A graffiti Easter egg in Grand Theft Auto IV referencing the HD Universe reboot of the series.
Tommy, along with other 3D Universe protagonists, is referenced in a graffiti Easter egg in Grand Theft Auto IV . As confirmed by Rockstar Games , this Easter egg is simply to commemorate GTA IV being the beginning of a new canon (officially named as the HD Universe ).
Later, in a Rockstar Newswire Q&A post, Rockstar Games have officially stated this Easter egg is "a little joke to our fans" [ 5 ] – protagonists and major story characters from the previous universe (including Tommy) have never existed in the HD Universe continuity (only background elements including brands and radio station characters/celebrities exist across universes), meaning that none of the events from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City are canon to Grand Theft Auto IV .
However, references alluding to the characters from the previous canon appear as Easter eggs and, by Rockstar's own words, "they have been rendered as characters from a bygone era" [ 6 ] (for example Grove Street Families -> The Families' Grove Street set ).
As mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Online , HD Universe variants of the businesses from Tommy's empire appear as seemingly legit businesses (i.e. Malibu Club and Pole Position Adult Lounge ).
Tommy Vercetti is depicted as both intelligent and temperamental. He is easily angered and quick to resort to violence. He does not hesitate to kill, though many of his victims are trying to kill Tommy, or have done something that – in the criminal world – guaranteed their deaths. However, Tommy often shows care and sensitivity towards characters like Mercedes Cortez and especially Earnest Kelly, viewing Kelly as a father figure due to his own father working in a printworks, and showing anger and concern when Kelly is injured by Sonny's hitmen. He also seems to have sympathy for children, as he considers Maude Hanson a "psycho" for her antipathy towards children. He also appears to have a distaste of the government and/or the army/police, as he characterizes the events of the Vietnam War "ugly business" when Mitch Baker tells him about how he was "betrayed by his own country", also loudly stating that he is "glad he doesn't pay tax" during his first meeting with Phil Cassidy, as well as consistently making sarcastic comments about the country's military and police force when cops are after him during free roam. Tommy believes in the mafia code and in a sense of honor amongst thieves, but if people cross him, he will go to any lengths to get even with them. [ 4 ]
Tommy prefers to perform his own work rather than delegate tasks to others. Even after he has his own gang and other subordinates working for him, he usually puts his plans in motion personally. He also personally gets involved if things aren't going as well as he'd like – for example, in the opening cutscene of Bar Brawl , he is irritated by Lance's lazy attitude towards the bar refusing to pay protection money and immediately goes out to settle things himself. His determination is also seen when Mitch Baker initially dismisses his offer of hiring them as security for the Love Fist concert, claiming they "only do favors for their own", with Tommy immediately and confidently being keen to join in order to gain their favour.
Despite his hot temper, Tommy tends to be loyal and trusting, especially toward those who he feels helped him to achieve his goals. He went back to work for Sonny Forelli after being released from prison even though he strongly suspected that Sonny set him up. Another example is Ken Rosenberg, who Tommy chose to let live following his drug problems because of his help with setting up Vercetti's empire. However, the best example is Lance Vance, as although Lance was incompetent and his attitude was becoming negative, Tommy still viewed and attempted to treat Lance as an equal partner, even letting him in on the counterfeiting setup at the Print Works. When busting Lance's chops once over the phone, Tommy states he's doing so because Lance screwed up: if Tommy ever messed up, he considered it within Lance's full rights to take him to task on it. Tommy was shocked at Lance's betrayal, automatically assuming that Lance was selling out their entire organization rather than himself personally. He notes over the phone that he really didn't think Lance was like that, leading Earnest Kelly to quip: "Tommy, for a raging lunatic, you're pretty naïve."
Despite Tommy being a gangster, he appears to be either pursuing a legit path in entrepreneurship in the long run, or being rather clueless about the criminal every-day reality of the world around him. This is seen during Tommy's first visit after acquiring the Print Works, with Tommy initially intending to print legal product, before later being convinced by Earnest Kelly to print counterfeit money instead. Tommy's legit initial intentions are also seen when meeting Maude Hanson, with Tommy believing that she is actually selling ice cream, with a noble intent of making children happy, only to be met with criminal operation. Tommy also seems unskilled at wielding various firearms, as many gun manuals can be seen on his desk inside the Vercetti's Estate.
However, a somewhat definite aspect of Tommy's character is his ability to be selfish and primarily worry about his own personal goals before the needs of others. For example, Tommy would prefer to partake in jobs that allow him to pursue his own interests. An instance of such behaviour is demonstrated in a cutscene while talking to Cortez; despite Cortez having employed Tommy and paid him generously thus far and got him into contact with Ricardo Diaz, Vice City's most powerful drug dealer, Tommy was impatient and said that he had no time to run more errands, showing a desire for power and greed. Only when Cortez tells Vercetti that he has a chance to gain from the job does Tommy decide to do it. Additionally, another example is how Tommy initially treated Lance with distrust and shrugged off Lance's grievances about his brother's death and still insisted on learning more about Diaz's empire, rather than trying to sympathise with his friend. Despite Ken having assisted in building the Vercetti Gang, Tommy chose to abandon Rosenberg after having been disbarred from the law and due to his cocaine addiction, despite Ken having completed his rehab treatment as mentioned above. Tommy chose to cut all ties rather than at least find the man who stood by him when his closest friends have betrayed him. Furthermore, Tommy seems to be proud of his antisocial tendencies, which is seen when Tommy is being called a "proper grade-A lunatic" by Lance, with Tommy modestly thanking him, taking it as a compliment. This is even clearer in the final scene of the final mission, when Tommy very proudly calls himself a "convicted psychotic killer and drug-dealer", with him chuckling afterwards.
Tommy likes to drink coffee, as during missions for the Cuban gang, he is either ordering or wants to order a cup of coffee. He also likes the music of the band Love Fist, which he openly states during the initial meeting with them.
Tommy, an Italian-American man, is portrayed with a tall, swarthy, handsome appearance, combed dark brown, almost black hair, brown eyes, and a five o'clock shadow. He first appears wearing a light blue-green Hawaiian shirt with dark blue palm trees printed on it, a pearl necklace (silver chain necklace in The Definitive Edition ), a gold watch around his left wrist, stonewashed blue jeans and white sneakers. He has other outfits also, and his appearance can be completely changed through the Player Skin Setup, a featured which was first introduced in Grand Theft Auto III , allowing players to create custom textures for the default player model and apply them in the game. During some missions, it is hinted that Tommy prefers to wear suits, for instance during the final cutscene of the final mission, Ken is commenting how Tommy "ruined his suit", despite the player being able to wear any outfit for this mission.
Tommy Vercetti shows many characteristics in common with Tony Montana , a drug lord from the film Scarface . The two both end up in exile, both arrive in the city wearing Hawaiian shirts , both rise to power in Miami using great amounts of violence, both build an empire from a large mansion, both have short tempers and are prone to violence, both work as contract killers, and both killed their collaborators and took their ex-bosses' empires. The interior of the Vercetti Estate is even modeled after Montana's mansion, save for the lack of an indoor pool. There are, however, key differences, most notably that Tommy did not become addicted to his own narcotics and that Tommy survived the shootout in his mansion, as opposed to Montana who was killed, and Tony Montana is of Cuban descent, whereas Tommy Vercetti is of Italian descent. However, Al Pacino , who played the role of Montana in Scarface , is of Italian descent.
Tommy Vercetti also bears some resemblance to Mr. Blonde (real name Vic Vega) from the 1992 film Reservoir Dogs , played by Michael Madsen , who also voiced Toni Cipriani , the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , in Grand Theft Auto III . The film sees Mr. Blonde released from prison after loyally doing time for his crime family, as Tommy did after the " Harwood Incident ". Tommy later performs contract killings for a 'Mr. Black', whilst he is referred to as 'Mr. Teal' (as Mr. Black believed Tommy to be the deceased Leo Teal ). He also has some little resemblance to his own voice actor, Ray Liotta.
Tommy Vercetti's story is similar to that of famous real-life mobster Joseph Iannuzzi . In the 1980s, Iannuzzi was sent to Florida to be a representative for his mob boss Tommy Agro. Like the relationship between Tommy and Sonny in game, the relationship between Joseph Iannuzzi and Tommy Agro became strained over a large sum of money. Iannuzzi was forced to flee Florida with a large sum of Agro's money. As a result, Agro ambushed Joseph in Florida and nearly killed him.
Tommy also shares some characteristics with Vito Corleone from The Godfather . Vito arrives in America after being forced to leave Sicily , he becomes involved with feared mob boss Don Fanucci , and eventually kills him. Vito takes over, and begins to expand his criminal organization into a large empire. Both of them also hire lawyers as relatively high-ranking members of their organization. Both of them are extremely loyal to their friends and associates, but seek vengeance if betrayed. Just like Tommy, Vito took pains to ensure that those loyal to him felt valued and important because of their loyalty, not merely grunts to be used.
Who is this guy? I've got a call into the Parole Board in Liberty. Seems he was in prison up there.
Tommy's shirt.
Tommy is said to be 35 years old in the BradyGames guide officially endorsed by Rockstar Games.
Carl " CJ " Johnson is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Young Maylay .
Carl is the second-in-command of the Grove Street Families , a Los Santos -based street gang led by his older brother, Sean "Sweet" Johnson , which also includes his childhood friends Lance "Ryder" Wilson and Melvin "Big Smoke" Harris . Having left his friends and family behind and moved to Liberty City for five years after the death of his younger brother Brian , Carl eventually returns home after learning about the murder of his mother, Beverly Johnson . From there, he works to earn back the trust of his friends and family, restore the Families to power, and learn the mysterious circumstances of his mother's death.
After being betrayed by his friends and learning of their involvement in the attack that killed his mother, Carl is exiled from Los Santos by the corrupt C.R.A.S.H. police unit. Abandoning his gang life once again, he makes new allies and becomes a successful and wealthy businessman, with assets in both San Fierro and Las Venturas . He eventually returns to Los Santos to reunite with his family and is persuaded by Sweet to rebuild the Families' strength and exact revenge on those who wronged them.
Carl is the son of Beverly Johnson, the younger brother of Sweet, and the older brother of Kendl and Brian Johnson.
Carl "CJ" Johnson was born in Los Santos to Beverly Johnson and an unnamed father; in The Introduction , he mentions that he did not know his father. Beverly had four children: Sean, Carl, Kendl, and Brian. Sweet states that Carl was born in the Johnson House , the family's childhood and current home. Old Reece , a family friend and local barber, recalls memories of Carl's father, although Carl tells Joey Leone that he never knew his father, and that Sweet was the "man" of the house, but made his life miserable. Carl mentions to Woozie in Amphibious Assault that, when he was swimming as a child, he once got a condom stuck to his face, and that "horror like that stays with you for life" . This also explains his fear of swimming .
The Johnson siblings, along with Big Smoke and Ryder, grew up on the same cul-de-sac and were childhood friends. CJ recalls Ryder dealing drugs since he was ten. Sweet became the leader of the Grove Street Families and introduced him, CJ, and possibly Brian into the gang life.
Around 1985 , the Grove Street Families were at the height of their power when they first became pressured by Frank Tenpenny , a corrupt police officer of C.R.A.S.H. The Families subsequently went into a decline at some point between 1987 and 1992 .
Carl's younger brother Brian died in 1987. The cause of his death was never revealed, though it is implied that Carl was present, but did not help him, as Sweet laments that Carl "let Brian die". Carl was no longer considered a member of Grove Street and would later have to earn his way back into the gang. Big Smoke also implies that Carl was physically larger during that time, stating that the " East Coast got [him] all thinned out".
Following Brian's death, Carl left Los Santos and moved to Liberty City. Sometime after his arrival, he began working for Joey Leone, the son of Leone Crime Family Don Salvatore Leone , stealing cars for his garage . He also committed various other small-time crimes for money.
In 1992, Beverly Johnson is killed in a drive-by shooting by members of the Ballas . Sweet phones Carl and informs him, and Carl agrees to return to Los Santos for the funeral.
Carl flies back home and takes a taxi to his mother's house, but is soon arrested and confronted by C.R.A.S.H. members Frank Tenpenny, Eddie Pulaski , and Jimmy Hernandez , who explain that Carl will work for them whenever they call upon him; otherwise, they will frame him for killing their fellow officer Ralph Pendelbury (who was really murdered by C.R.A.S.H. themselves). After meeting with Big Smoke at the Johnson house, Carl finally reunites with his siblings and friends.
Carl quickly learns that the Grove Street Families lost much of their power over the last five years – a result of the growing crack cocaine trend and, though Sweet doesn't admit it, Sweet not having as much personal strength as a leader without CJ home. Carl and Sweet work furiously to bring the gang back to power, with Carl regaining his brother's respect in the process. This includes reuniting with the Seville Boulevard and Temple Drive Families , and developing a friendship with Aztecas leader Cesar Vialpando (who is dating Kendl, much to Sweet's disapproval). Carl also considerably weakens the Ballas, the sworn enemies of the Grove Street Families, and assists his friend OG Loc , a laughable "poser" who aspires to become a successful rapper (ruining the career of Madd Dogg in the process).
Thanks to Carl's efforts, the Grove Street Families are at the second height of their power, and Sweet plans to eliminate the remaining Ballas in a large ambush. Carl prepares to join his brother and fellow gang members until Cesar calls him and reveals that Ryder and Big Smoke have betrayed the gang to C.R.A.S.H and the Ballas . Carl rushes to the gunfight, suspecting that Sweet and the other Families members are walking into a trap. He manages to hold off the Ballas to protect a heavily wounded Sweet, until both of them are arrested by the police. The Grove Street Families and the Varrios Los Aztecas practically disappear, and Big Smoke becomes the head of a powerful drug empire, taking over Los Santos. OG Loc also becomes a rich and famous rapper, with Big Smoke acting as his manager as a means to launder his money.
While Sweet is imprisoned, C.R.A.S.H. forbids Carl from returning to Los Santos and abandons him in rural Whetstone to eliminate a witness against them . It is slowly revealed that they are being tried in court over their corruption, in a case that is quickly building media attention. Cesar connects Carl to his (mentally unstable) cousin, Catalina , and the two form a relationship built on the robberies they commit together. Tenpenny introduces Carl to The Truth , an aging hippie who is supplying Tenpenny with tons of weed , and tells Carl to frame a D.A. who possesses evidence against C.R.A.S.H. Tenpenny demands that Carl pay for the drugs with his own money, forcing him to return to work with Catalina, who now has an obsessive crush on him.
Carl also meets San Fierro Triads leader Wu Zi Mu during a street race . Catalina finds Carl at the race and expresses her feelings of neglect and anger, feeling that he was only interested in her as a partner in crime, while also proclaiming that she has a new boyfriend, Claude . Carl defeats Claude and Catalina in a street race, gaining the deed to Claude's run-down garage in San Fierro . CJ then leaves for San Fierro with The Truth and Tenpenny's marijuana, being forced to escape from the police after Tenpenny betrayed The Truth. Once in the city, Carl meets Cesar and Kendl (whom he had earlier told to leave Los Santos for their own safety) at his new garage in Doherty . CJ is initially furious with the derelict state of the garage, but Kendl convinces him to turn it into a business opportunity. Through The Truth, Carl meets and hires Dwaine , Jethro , and Zero to work at the garage, intending to turn it into a profitable chop shop.
Carl meets with Woozie in San Fierro and the two quickly become strong allies, collaborating to take down their mutual enemies: the Da Nang Boys , a Vietnamese gang of human traffickers, and the Loco Syndicate , a drug cartel supplying Big Smoke with crack cocaine. Carl infiltrates the Loco Syndicate and eventually kills most of its chief members. During this time, CJ continues to run his new garage, using it as a front for a car theft ring. He also purchases the Wang Cars showroom and Zero's RC shop to use as legitimate fronts, earning him even more money.
Eventually, Carl receives a surprise phone call from Mike Toreno , a former member of the Loco Syndicate, who survived Carl's attempt on his life . Toreno reveals himself as a government agent and enlists Carl's help with several off-the-books operations in exchange for securing Sweet's release from prison. As part of his work for Toreno, Carl purchases an abandoned airfield and learns to fly aircraft . Although it is a well-kept secret from all of his friends, The Truth finds Carl at his new base of operations and warns him that Toreno can't be trusted. He also recruits Carl to retrieve a Jetpack from Area 69 , which is later used to steal some mysterious, enlightening green goo from a military train .
Woozie invites CJ to the Triad's glamorous Four Dragons Casino in Las Venturas. Upon arrival, Carl is given shares in the casino by Woozie "in exchange for some help setting it up". They are faced with aggressive competition from the Mafia -run Caligula's Palace and, as revenge, spend time planning an extremely elaborate heist on Caligula's. This involves Carl infiltrating Caligula's inner circle of management (by chance of The Truth's association with music industry employees Kent Paul and Maccer ) and working with Ken Rosenberg and even Don Salvatore Leone, before helping Ken, Kent, and Maccer fake their deaths to escape Salvatore's rage.
During this time period, C.R.A.S.H. extracts the last of Carl's labor before they try to kill him (as well as Hernandez for snitching on them). Hernandez is murdered, but Carl survives and kills Pulaski . By chance, Carl also crosses paths with Madd Dogg when he saves him from a suicide attempt , partially out of guilt for ruining his career. In gratitude, Madd Dogg makes Carl an offer to become his manager, which the latter accepts.
Carl's ongoing vendetta towards Tenpenny and Big Smoke, finalized by Madd Dogg having to sell his mansion to drug lord Big Poppa , prompts Carl to return to Los Santos and take back the rapper's mansion by force . While recording Madd Dogg's new album, Toreno contacts Carl and gives him one last task to complete before Sweet is released from prison. Sweet is disgusted at Carl for his new millionaire lifestyle and for having forgotten about helping the Grove Street Families, and takes him back to Grove Street to begin their task of reclaiming the gang's turf. As the Families slowly begin their third rise to power, Carl manages to get Madd Dogg's rhyme book back from OG Loc, reviving Madd Dogg's career, as well as hitting Big Smoke close to home.
During this time, Tenpenny is arrested for his crimes (thanks to Hernandez ratting him out), but is acquitted in his trial due to a lack of evidence implicating him in criminal activities. With the trial being widely covered by the media, its outcome infuriates the residents of Los Santos, who riot as a result. Amidst all the chaos in the city, Carl helps the Grove Street Families become the strongest gang in Los Santos at the expense of their rivals, and even assists Cesar in retaking the Varrios Los Aztecas' turf . After tracking down Big Smoke, Carl storms his crack palace and kills his former friend, before he and Sweet chase Tenpenny, who tries to flee the city. The chase ends with Tenpenny being mortally injured after his firetruck falls from the bridge above Grove Street, where Carl proceeds to taunt the dying officer alongside his allies.
Later, during a celebration inside the Johnson House, Madd Dogg, accompanied by Ken, Kent, and Maccer, arrives to announce " our first gold record" to Carl. At the same time, Sweet insists on making Grove Street a priority, while Kendl suggests attending to their businesses in San Fierro and Las Venturas. Carl, unsure what path to take next, decides to head outside, telling his friends and family that he's "fittin' to hit the block, see what's happening".
At the very end of the game, Carl is a young and wealthy man. His assets and business interests include the Grove Street Families gang and Madd Dogg's contract in Los Santos, a car garage and several other properties in San Fierro, and shares in The Four Dragons Casino in Las Venturas, as well as the government's $60 million jetpack.
It is suggested that Carl, Madd Dogg, Kent Paul and Maccer are to go on a worldwide tour, as mentioned by Madd Dogg during the game's final cutscene . Maccer and Kent Paul are to ride along, giving another hint that Carl helped the two rebuild their band .
An Easter egg in Grand Theft Auto IV suggests that Carl, along with the other 3D Universe protagonists , is dead. However, this is simply to commemorate the game being the beginning of a new era and it is not considered canon . Rockstar Games have stated this is "a little joke to our fans" .
CJ is markedly different from the previous playable characters in the Grand Theft Auto series. While Claude and Tommy Vercetti are both depicted as extremely immoral and feeling little to no regret for all of the people that they kill, CJ is depicted as having a considerably less violent personality, occasionally giving his targets a chance to redeem themselves. An example is his failed attempt at convincing Eddie Pulaski to see that he was no more than Tenpenny's pawn in the mission High Noon . Furthermore, CJ displays genuine remorse for having to kill Ryder and Big Smoke , who he considered close friends. Despite his empathy, CJ doesn't seem to feel any remorse when innocent people might get hurt by his actions. This is best seen during Management Issues where CJ also kills a woman accompanying Alan Crawford , despite only being tasked to kill the latter. Another example is CJ wasting an unassociated valet just to get his uniform during 555 We Tip . In Architectural Espionage , if the player doesn't have a camera before starting the mission, CJ will forcefully steal a camera by hurting a random tourist. CJ also has no problem with killing members of other gangs, and willfully slaughters any that get in his way of reclaiming Grove Street Families turf or try to sabotage his businesses, though in return, the gangsters are also trying to kill CJ.
CJ's naïve personality, face-value interpretations of other characters' responses occasionally leads them to question CJ's intelligence (namely The Truth and Catalina ). Despite his mostly calm nature, CJ has shown a very violent and aggressive side when his family is threatened, as with the mission Deconstruction , in which he vows to teach a lesson to the construction workers who insulted his sister, Kendl , ultimately killing them all and burying the foreman alive in a portable toilet. CJ, like his brother Sweet , holds a deep-seated loyalty towards Grove Street and the hood, as seen in his reaction to the resentful attitude of his friends and siblings early on. Though, towards the end of the game, while Sweet is in prison, and CJ is making progress in San Fierro and Las Venturas , the unattended Grove Street becomes Ballas turf and is filled with crack dealers . CJ tries to get his brother to abandon the hood for their assets elsewhere, but he is quickly convinced into re-taking the turf and rebuilding the Grove Street Families. Despite his young age, Carl often handles situations in a professional manner. This is shown during the mission The Meat Business when Carl keeps encouraging Ken Rosenberg to calm down and remember that "you're the boss".
At the beginning of the game, Carl, much like Sweet, has a very gang-based and ghetto mentality, stubbornly holding to his gangster views and beliefs, such as his unwillingness to "rat" towards the cops, holding onto his "street code" and naïvely believing that other gangsters also hold onto them, and using outdated methods to create tools, such as a silencer . Shortly after being exiled from Los Santos , Carl continues to hold onto these beliefs until Cesar Vialpando reveals that Smoke was a drug dealer for a long time and was transporting drugs from San Fierro, and Kendl notes that Smoke's house was purchased with drug money.
However, shortly after his arrival in San Fierro, Carl gradually loses his gang-based mentality and adopts more strategic, intelligent, and cunning viewpoints and mentality. This is demonstrated by planting drugs in a D.A.'s car and reporting to the SFPD , leading the Da Nang Boys away from Chinatown to allow a Triad leader to escape assassination, using stinger traps to steal a car without damaging it, scaring a high-ranking mobster into revealing his identity, planning a major casino heist in Las Venturas, saving Madd Dogg's life by using a truck full of crates, leading an all-out assault with the Triads to reclaim Madd Dogg 's mansion from the Vagos , and using a SWAT Tank to break into a heavily protected building. Carl also becomes the successful manager of Madd Dogg, and through his various connections, helps revitalize Madd Dogg's career, further showing Carl's growing mindset and business-like methods.
However, some of CJ's actions still seem to be less thought through, with CJ seemingly hoping the situations will end well for him. The best example is going to interact with Johnny Sindacco personally on two occasions, despite knowing he will recognize him after the ordeal in Fender Ketchup .
In the beta version and in The Introduction , CJ is seen wearing a black hoodie or combat green jacket with blue jeans or beige khaki and brown shoes or white shoes or black shoes. CJ's default appearance in the final version of the game is a white tank top, with blue jeans and black tennis shoes. He is an young African-American man with a cesar hairstyle, black hair, brown eyes, a bit of facial hair and a thin body. CJ has been compared to and confused for both his father and his brother Brian, suggesting that CJ bears a great resemblance to both of them. CJ is also stated to have been fatter or more muscular before he left for Liberty City , with his friends stating the East Coast "thinned him out". Carl is noticeably short, as the player can see when Carl is standing next to other characters such as Sweet, Big Smoke, Grove Street members, and even Ryder, who has been belittled for his height numerous times. Some mission cutscenes show Carl slightly limping his left foot. This is also notable if the player enters the slow motion cheat twice and watches the sprint animation carefully.
CJ can have a large variety of appearances depending on the player. For example, he can wear cheap clothes from Binco or luxury clothes from ZIP including green ones to represent Grove Street Families . He can be muscular, thin or fat with the use of gyms and restaurants and cheats like LifesABeach and LoveConquerSall if muscular or fat and thin are combined with use of two cheats. He can also have different tattoos and hairstyles . Carl was the most customizable protagonist until the release of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Another interesting dynamic thing about Carl's appearance is that his quotes depend on his clothing and physical appearance. For example, he will use more slang when dressed in lower-end clothing, speak in a more refined tone when wearing high-end clothes, or even make food-related comments when he is fatter.
The only thing that cannot be changed are CJ's underpants and he will never be naked without his clothes and underwear.
Automatic 9mm (Voice, possibly)
Niko Bellic (Serbian: Нико Белић , Latinica: Niko Belić ) is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto IV and a supporting character in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony . He is also mentioned by Lester Crest and Patrick McReary in Grand Theft Auto V and by Agent ULP in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Aside from his multiple canonical mentions in GTA Online , Niko makes a non-canon Social Club promotional appearance as a selectable " Special Dad " in the Character Creator .
Niko grew up in Yugoslavia, where he fought in the Yugoslav Wars . He later worked for organized crime syndicates as a hired-gun in Liberty City . Ever since the wars ended, Niko's main goal in life was to find and kill one of two men: Florian Cravic or Darko Brevic , for one of them betrayed his military unit during the wars and nearly killed him. Niko is the younger cousin of Roman Bellic and the son of Milica Bellic .
He was voiced by Michael Hollick .
Niko was born in Yugoslavia c. c. circa 1978 to a Serbian family. It was implied that his father was an abusive alcoholic. His mother, Milica Bellic, was unhappy that her son grew up in such a harsh place. In a conversation with Patrick McReary , Niko reveals that he had a brother who died during the Yugoslav Wars. According to the dialogue in the mission Taking in the Trash , Niko dreamed of becoming an astronaut when he was a child. In a conversation with Dwayne Forge , Niko mentions the house where he grew up in did not have electricity until he was twelve. In a conversation with Kate McReary , Niko says that he found out his aunt (Roman's mother) was raped and murdered, some time after Roman's departure to the United States . Knowing Roman would be even more devastated if he knew the true circumstances of his mother's death, Niko covered up what happened, telling him that she died in a house fire.
Niko grew up in the harsh environment of the Yugoslav Wars and was a teenage soldier for the Serb-led army (the Yugoslav Wars were fought between 1991 and 2001, which means that Niko was only 13-23 years old at the time). Niko says that he was betrayed "ten years ago", making it closer to 1998 (although Florian claims that it was "twelve or thirteen years ago" in a phone call after the mission That Special Someone ). He served as a helicopter pilot and an infantryman during the war, and during the mission Easy Fare , Roman alludes to him driving a tank.
During the war, Niko both witnessed and committed numerous atrocities, which led to his cynical perspective on life, and a certain degree of regret, depression, and emotional detachment. For example, in the cutscene of the mission Rigged to Blow , he tells Ileyna Faustin that he did bad things in the war and that he did nothing but bad things, such as killing people and sold and smuggled them; he also tells her that he saw fifty children sitting neatly against a church wall each with their throats cut and their hands chopped off and that he realized that the soldier that did it did not have a soul. Eventually, Niko's unit of fifteen men (most of them friends from his hometown) were ambushed by enemy forces, but Darko Brevic, Florian Cravic, and Niko himself survived. Niko concluded that either Florian or Darko had sold the group out, and he vowed to uncover and kill the culprit, not only to gain revenge, but also to hopefully "close the book" on the incident and move on with his life.
Niko had trouble finding steady work after the war. Niko's cousin, Roman, had already moved to America to start a new life in Liberty City, while Niko spent the next decade working in the European criminal underworld, leading to a period of incarceration in a European penitentiary. After his release from prison, he began working for a human trafficking ring led by Ray Bulgarin . When a boat involved in the operation sank in the Adriatic Sea during a smuggling run into Italy , Niko swam to safety, but everything and everyone else was lost. Bulgarin believed that Niko had intentionally scuttled the ship and stole his money. Bulgarin's reach was too great within Europe , so Niko joined the merchant navy to escape him.
Niko spent seven months on the cargo ship Platypus , which eventually smuggled Niko into Liberty City.
During the game, Niko says he moved to Liberty City because he wanted a new life by living the American Dream, but when he does arrive in Liberty City, he has nothing except Roman. Niko parted ways with Hossan and the Platypus crew there, partly to reunite with his cousin , and partly to track down Florian Cravic, who had moved to Liberty City after the war. Roman had been boasting of great success in Liberty City, but in truth, his assets amounted to a small, gritty taxi depot and a rundown apartment , and he was saddled with heavy debts due to his gambling habit. Niko would assist Roman in his taxi business, and protect his cousin from the loan sharks who were harassing him. Roman's connections eventually led to Niko making friends with Little Jacob , and taking work from the Russian Mafia , setting in motion the events of the game.
After killing Vladimir Glebov , Niko is spared by Mikhail Faustin , although Dimitri Rascalov wanted him and Roman killed. After killing Mikhail, Dimitri reveals his connections with Ray Bulgarin and turns against Niko, even trying to kill him . Niko and Roman flee Hove Beach when their apartment and Roman's taxi depot are burned down . It is at this point that Niko becomes a hitman and an associate of many. Mallorie Bardas , Roman's girlfriend, introduces him to two contacts, Manny Escuela and Elizabeta Torres . Niko develops affiliations and becomes a worker of the McReary Family , Playboy X , Dwayne Forge , and the Pegorino Crime Family , to name a few, over the course of the game. In an attempt to lure Niko into an ambush, Dimitri kidnaps Roman, who is rescued by Niko.
Niko eventually becomes in forced contact with an International Affairs Agency front under the name of United Liberty Paper , who blackmails him into doing some "country-protecting" work. Also, Ray Boccino managed to help Niko find Florian Cravic. When Niko confronts him , Florian, who now calls himself Bernie Crane, begs for forgiveness and claims he is not only a homosexual, but that he is not the one who betrayed Niko (despite escaping). Niko forgives him and actually begins helping Bernie with his life.
As a sign of gratitude towards Niko for his work with them, the U.L.P. locate Darko Brevic in Romania and smuggle him into Liberty City. Niko confronts Brevic , who confesses that he sold Niko's army unit out for $1,000, which he used to fund his heroin addiction. Enraged at the fact his unit were betrayed for such a paltry sum, Niko holds Brevic at gunpoint. Whether Niko kills Brevic or not depends on the player's actions.
After his confrontation with Brevic, Niko meets Jimmy Pegorino again. Pegorino asks Niko to do a heroin deal with Dimitri Rascalov. Niko is reluctant to do so, because of the bitterness between himself and Rascalov. The conclusion of the storyline depends on the player's decision.
If the player chooses to take revenge on Rascalov, Niko fights his way onto the Platypus ship, which Rascalov is loading with heroin, and confronts Rascalov over his earlier betrayal. Niko executes Rascalov, which leads to the downfall of the Pegorino family. Angered at Niko's betrayal, Pegorino attempts to assassinate him in a drive-by shooting at Roman Bellic's wedding , but instead kills Niko's girlfriend Kate McReary. To avenge Kate's death, Niko, along with Little Jacob and Roman, chases Pegorino throughout the city before confronting and killing him on Happiness Island .
If the player chooses to do the deal with Rascalov, he will betray Niko again and send a hitman to assassinate Niko at his cousin's wedding . Niko survives and kills the assassin, though his cousin Roman is accidentally shot and killed during the shootout. Enraged by this, Niko and Little Jacob chase Rascalov, who kills Jimmy Pegorino, throughout the city before confronting and killing him on Happiness Island .
At the end of the game, a Weazel News report states that Niko is wanted for questioning by the police (although not as a suspect) for the events of his cousin's wedding.
Niko's immigrant status is uncertain and arouses the suspicion of the LCPD and FIB . Although Niko often protests that he "has his papers" while fleeing police, Roman says that Niko does not have a visa. This is further evidenced in a Liberty Tree article about the death of the Platypus 's captain, Zorba Philippidis , which states that none of the crew possess visas.
If Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend is played after Pest Control , Niko tells Packie that he intends to go after Ray Bulgarin, although Ray would be killed by Luis Lopez .
If Niko chooses to do the deal with Dimitri, after Roman's death, Niko most likely gives up his life of crime and stays close to his friends as they are there for him. Also, Niko says to Mallorie that her child will need not to worry about being fatherless, hinting Niko will help take care of her child and assume a fatherly role.
If Niko chooses to seek revenge on Dimitri, Niko's love interest, Kate, is killed, though he is still able to have a date such as Alexandra Chilton , Carmen Ortiz or Kiki Jenkins and keep in contact with his cousin and friends. He most likely gives up his life of crime and tries to live a normal life with Roman, as is hinted by Lester Crest during Casing the Jewel Store in Grand Theft Auto V .
Not much is known about Niko's life during the events of Grand Theft Auto V . It is hinted that he has completely given up a life of crime, and has now retired. While setting up for the first heist , Lester Crest mentioned to Michael De Santa that he knew "an Eastern European guy making moves in Liberty City", but dismissed the idea as "he went quiet". This would hint that he'd continued his life as a career criminal for a few more years before leaving it, especially if he was able to gain such notoriety as recently as of 2013.
Trevor Philips has the option to take Packie to the Altruist Cult upon serving as his getaway driver after a robbery went wrong . On the way, he will mention Niko, saying "I knew this guy in Liberty City, he was hardcore, you know? A killer. But sorta confused too. He had these cold eyes, but we connected".
If he is spared, however, and chosen for The Paleto Score , he begins talking about his most successful job in Liberty City, and then mentions Niko, revealing that he doesn't even know what became of him, and that he is "probably dead". It is possible though that Niko has cut all ties to his previous criminal lifestyle, including all ties with Packie, and is retired.
After completing the mission Reuniting the Family , one potential scenario in his house sees his family gathered around the dining room table. Jimmy , Michael's son, is writing his résumé on a laptop. [ 3 ] However, the screen displays a Lifeinvader profile page as an Easter egg .
By using a camera to zoom in, the page is revealed to be that of Niko Bellic, complete with an image of the character. He now lives in Broker, still working as a taxi driver for Bellic Cab Service , and is still in contact with Mallorie Bardas, Little Jacob , and Brucie Kibbutz , who all liked his latest status. There is also a Happy Birthday note for Roman which was dated as being posted 40 minutes prior. As Rockstar Games have officially stated that there are no "true paths" for Grand Theft Auto IV 's storyline, and it's all determinant to the player, and this official stance was issued after the release of GTA V , Niko Bellic's LifeInvader profile in GTA V (including Roman as a friend) is considered an Easter egg. [ 4 ]
A wanted poster for Niko can be seen on the porch of a house just west of Sandy Shores . This is another Easter egg referencing the wanted posters included in the promotional material for Grand Theft Auto IV .
In The Doomsday Heist update for GTA Online , Lester Crest briefly mentions Niko when he is talking about Agent ULP , who blackmailed Niko to work for him almost a decade ago .
In The Criminal Enterprises update for GTA Online , Agent ULP briefly mentions Niko during Operation Paper Trail , though not by name, to the GTA Online Protagonist as a previous IAA hired "agent". During the same dialogue, ULP makes a reference to his own dialogue from the GTA IV mission Wrong is Right , telling the protagonist they "can't always tell who the good guys are. I'm not a good guy. But I'm fighting with them".
Furthermore, after the GTA Online Protagonist's final mission as a sworn-in IAA agent, they receive a final phone call from Agent ULP telling them they're on their own from now on and wishing them the best, saying the exact same phrase as to Niko during his last phone call to him in the GTA IV mission That Special Someone – "You're out. You've done good things for us, and we are grateful. From here in, you're alone. Goodbye".
From the beginning, it is clearly evident that Niko's suffering from a quarter-life crisis. Having grown up in difficult conditions and witnessed the horrors of warfare, Niko in general feels frustrated, fatalistic, confused with his life's direction, pessimistic, overwhelmed, unappreciated, cynical, and unfulfilled.
Niko is very protective of his family and loved ones, particularly his cousin Roman, whom Niko constantly has to worry about due to his gambling habit. Roman has an indiscreet nature of frequently getting the pair into trouble. He is withdrawn among strangers, but has good manners, and shows a softer side with love interests like Kate McReary and Michelle . That said, the horrors of war, both witnessed and perpetrated by Niko, have given him a great sense of guilt, and an ambivalence about the value of human life – he warns away pursuers and expresses regret over his past violence, but also feels that killing is all that he can do, readily taking on jobs which necessarily involve murder. Niko is prone to violence after being angered and he has an explosive temper when he is betrayed, manipulated, or his loyalty is questioned, but he is also quick to help the defenseless and unfortunate, even those he merely meets in passing ; he apparently possesses a sense of idealism which was wounded by his wartime experiences. Unfortunately, such a split attitude leads to hypocrisy – Niko, for example, appears to genuinely sympathize with the McRearys ' grief over the demise of one of their brothers (either Derrick McReary or Francis McReary ), despite having secretly committed that murder himself.
Niko's bitterness at the murder of his friends during the war has consumed him, and he is unable to let it go, taking on several highly dangerous jobs merely to enable his quest for vengeance. Several of his friends, most notably Roman, urge him to find a new reason to live, and there are many morality choices for Niko to emphasize his trait.
Niko's business-like manner usually leads him to behave more maturely and cautiously than his acquaintances, although with acquaintances like Brucie Kibbutz, Bernie Crane and Roman, this is no surprise. He has an apparent distaste for illegal drugs, much like Carl Johnson and Victor Vance . He frequently turns down Little Jacob's offers for marijuana and warns Packie about his cocaine habit. He also finds it distasteful to traffic in cocaine and particularly heroin , although this may be due to the heavy jail sentences they attract as much as any moral qualms. He is skeptical of American mainstream culture, which he sees as "shallow" and "hypocritical" and has trouble relating to Roman's fascination with the country. However, he reasons that being in America is far better than back in Serbia due to the country's instability and misery.
Niko also exhibits dislike for American conservative politicians, whom he considers to be hypocrites. An example is Bryce Dawkins , whom Niko says is a "bullshitter" for giving homophobic speeches and preaching about family values to gain political power when he himself is bisexual. However, a conversation between Niko and Kiki Jenkins reveals he considers himself neither liberal nor conservative, and that the war gave him a highly cynical view of politicians in general.
Niko has a certain degree of empathy for other people, even random strangers, and feels obliged to help others who cannot help themselves. Most missions involve Niko doing jobs for money , particularly one occasion. After meeting a troubled young girl, Marnie Allen , he even gives her some of his own money multiple times to help her out. He is also surprisingly calm when speaking to authority figures, even those as powerful as Francis McReary, who he simply asks for more money from, much to the disappointment and frustration of McReary. He is usually never emotionally disturbed by anyone besides Darko Brevic. He expresses disgust at Brevic's drug addiction and at how he betrayed his army unit in exchange for drug money. If Niko kills Brevic, Niko will hesitate for a moment before unloading 12 shots (one for every member of Niko's army unit who was killed) into Brevic's body uncontrollably, even after Brevic's death after about the sixth shot. The only other figure that has visibly disturbed Niko is Eddie Low , who Niko is understandably creeped out by. This can even horrify the player to an extent, such as when Low makes comments about all the people he has murdered in gruesome ways, or Low's clinginess towards Niko for being his 'friend'. During his encounters with Eddie, Niko's eyebrows are raised and his mouth is open in disbelief. Otherwise, Niko's face is usually very serious.
Niko almost always refuses alcohol when it is offered to him (he asks for water in the mission Ivan the Not So Terrible ), except for the mission The Holland Play , where Playboy X pours him a glass. Niko goes to drink it, but changes his mind and puts the glass on a table. There is a scene where Niko does drink a glass of vodka (on the rocks) in the mission One Last Thing , while talking to Jimmy Pegorino, but this is understandable considering what he had just been through . Niko does seem to enjoy a drink, but knows the time and place for it. He refuses alcohol outright in instances where he needs to keep a sharp mind, such as during missions.
Without the player's control, Niko will never hit female pedestrians . For example, when Niko carjacks someone, the animation can sometimes see him punch or kick the occupant of the car, but he only does this to male drivers. If the driver is female, Niko will just pull her out of the car and not harm her.
Niko has brown hair and hazel eyes. He has facial hair that resembles a "scruffy" looking five o'clock shadow, which fits his 'thug' appearance very well. Niko isn't as heavily muscled as Luis or Johnny and he's more slender than both of them. Still, Niko has enough physical strength to hold his own in a fistfight and he's capable of pulling himself up on a ledge after hanging by his straight arms. He is also strong enough to twist Brucie's arm with ease. Several characters throughout the story call Niko "big guy" or "big man", which likely means that he is of tall stature and heavy build. Niko has a scar running through his left brow. He most likely got the scar during the war; however, this has not been confirmed.
Niko's body is of 'average' build, but characters like Bernie Crane mention that "Niko is still in great shape." Later, Bernie asks if Niko works out, to which Niko answers he doesn't work out, but his dangerous lifestyle keeps him active. People consider him to be of "above average" build despite his slender appearance.
During his appearances in TLAD and TBoGT , Niko looks almost exactly the same, except that he no longer has dimples, his pupils are now greenish brown, his nose is less detailed and his hair is slightly more darker. In GTA Online as a parent model, he looks similar to his GTA IV counterpart, but he now has a buzz cut and wears a polo shirt which can also be purchased by the player in clothing shops .
During early development, Niko had longer hair, longer bristles and brighter eyes.
In artworks and earlier screenshots , Niko was often seen wearing finger-less gloves. The files still remain on the PC version and can only be used with an in-game trainer. Obtaining them in the game without modding is impossible. The reason why they have been removed from the final version of the game is unknown, but it is likely due to the fact that they are not very inconspicuous.
In early beta versions of GTA IV , Niko had slightly thicker hair and sometimes he can be seen with a buzz cut, neither of which appear in GTA IV , but still exist in the game files.
Michael Hollick - voice of Niko.
The word "Niko" means nobody in the Serbo-Croatian language. The surname "Bellic" cannot exist in that language with that spelling, as it does not allow the double-L in "Bellic"; "Bellic" is also pronounced with a hard 'c' (/bel-lik/) throughout the game — Niko himself uses the incorrect pronunciation when introducing himself to Michelle and the receptionist at Goldberg, Ligner and Shyster in the mission Final Interview . A proper pronunciation would use a hard 'ch' (/belich/, as used in-game with the names "Darko Brevic" and "Florian Cravic"); a more authentic rendering of Niko's surname would be 'Belić'. At one point, Florian, speaking in his native Serbo-Croatian, pronounces the name correctly; "Bellic" may simply be an Anglicised version of "Belić". Going by that custom, Niko's real name may be Nikola Belić. The surname "Bellic" is likely derived from Russian rather than Serbian, which is incorrect.
The first name "Niko" is distinctively of Croatian origin rather than Serbian , the latter preferring the name "Nikola". In the mission Final Interview, Tom Goldberg refers to Niko as "Nikolai", although this is an assumption on his part – he begins their interview by saying, "Hello, Niko! What's that short for? Nikolai?" Niko does not respond and no one else calls him "Nikolai" in the game.
Niko's voice actor, Michael Hollick, is American, and the accent he assumes for Niko stereotypes Eastern Europeans (Slavic peoples) in general, instead of being specifically Serbian; Niko's spoken Serbo-Croatian is frequently mispronounced or wrongly emphasized. This is likely intentional to play into the series theme of satirizing Americans' ignorance regarding other cultures.
A comparison between Sasha and Niko.
Niko appears to be visually inspired by the antagonist Sasha from the 2001 movie Behind Enemy Lines , which takes place in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war. Sasha's clothes are even available to buy in the Russian Shop .
Sasha's actor, Vladimir Mashkov , later confirmed in an interview that he was asked to play "a man with a dark past, with a slightly rumpled appearance" in an unnamed video game, whose producers liked his performance as Sasha. Given few details about what he was being asked to do or what for, Mashkov thought it was a questionable proposal and not very interesting, and he turned it down. Only later did he learn that the game was GTA IV .
Niko was voted 13th in the 2011 edition of the Guinness World Records for the Top 50 favorite game characters. His name was incorrectly spelled "Nico Bellic".
Niko Bellic is available as a special Dad , used in creating the player's custom character , alongside Misty , Claude , and John Marston from Red Dead Redemption .
Franklin Clinton is a character appearing as one of the three protagonists in Grand Theft Auto V , along with Michael De Santa and Trevor Philips , and as a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Contract update. He also appears as one of the two playable characters of the Short Trips mission series and the Double Down Adversary Modes , along with Lamar Davis .
Franklin is a small-time gangster born and raised in Los Santos who aspires to leave behind the gang life and become a successful criminal and businessman. A member of the Chamberlain Gangster Families for most of his life, he and his best friend Lamar Davis formed the independent Forum Gangsters to stay away from CGF's "retro gangster" nonsense. Franklin's ambitious dreams are eventually given a chance to become reality after meeting Michael De Santa, who takes him on as a protégé and brings him along on several high-profile jobs, but also ropes him into his various personal problems.
Prior to his physical debut in Grand Theft Auto Online , Franklin was mentioned by Lamar Davis in the missions " Mall or Nothing " and " Community Outreach ", and by Hao recalling " Shift Work " during the LS Car Meet introduction. With the addition of The Contract update in 2021 , Franklin returns as a successful entrepreneur and multi-millionaire who owns and runs the F. Clinton and Partner agency with his new partner, the GTA Online Protagonist .
Franklin is voiced by Shawn Fonteno , who is the cousin of Young Maylay , the voice actor of Carl Johnson , the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
Franklin was born in South Los Santos , San Andreas , in 1988 . He never knew his father and his mother became a cocaine addict when Franklin was very young. As a child, Franklin often heard stories about how his father was violent and physically abusive towards his mother, possibly causing her to turn to cocaine to escape being abused. Franklin's father left while his mother was still pregnant with him. His mother's addiction eventually led to her death when Franklin was a little boy.
Following his mother's death, he moved in with his maternal grandparents. This is where Franklin met Tonya Wiggins and JB Bradshaw . Despite being constantly spoiled by his grandmother, Franklin had decided to take on the role of a street hustler. One of his first jobs was selling cigarettes with Bradshaw. The scheme was successful until Franklin's grandfather caught them in the act. In Tonya's words, his grandfather "gave chase to both him and Bradshaw all around South Los Santos". After the death of his grandparents, Franklin and his aunt Denise moved into a house on Forum Drive left to them by Franklin's grandmother in her will.
Franklin attended Davis High School along with Lamar Davis , Tanisha Jackson and Tonya, but was expelled for assaulting a teacher. [ 8 ] Around this time, he began the life of a gangbanger and dope dealer and started committing various petty crimes such as carjackings and small-time bank robberies with Lamar. During their first bank robbery, they stole $2,000 but could not keep the money because a dye pack exploded, making it worthless. Franklin also worked for a local drug dealer named Marcus, whom later fall out and killed. [ 9 ]
At some point, Franklin dated Tanisha, but they split up due to her brother's death and her fearing that Franklin's criminal lifestyle will bring her harm. In 2013 , Franklin moved beyond the role of street dealer when he and Lamar began working for Armenian businessman Simeon Yetarian , who owns a car dealership acting as a front for loansharking and extortion. Yeterian would sell cars to people who couldn't afford them and when they'd default on the exorbitant interest payments, Franklin and Lamar would repossess the cars.
While growing up, Franklin and Lamar were casual acquaintances with another boy that lived two blocks away who respect Franklin, later he once sign up with the military, as he considered that his only alternative to gang life. Franklin and Lamar also knew a girl named Perlie, and later in her life, her daughter Imani .
Franklin and Lamar begin their repossession.
Franklin is first seen on a repossession job with Lamar, soon after a chance encounter with his future crime partner, Michael De Santa , who unknowingly directs them to their assigned repossession. Later, Franklin and Lamar are assigned by Simeon to repossess a Bagger in a Vagos -controlled area of Vespucci . While searching for the bike, the two are confronted by the Vagos and a shootout begins when Lamar pulls a gun on them. The duo is then forced to fight their way out of the neighborhood. They find the bike, but the owner was killed during the shootout. Knowing the repossession is meaningless, Lamar takes the bike for himself, and Simeon blames Franklin for the bike's theft.
While recovering a BeeJay XL sold to Jimmy De Santa , his father Michael (who had been hiding in the back seat) holds a pistol to Franklin's head. Under orders from Michael, Franklin drives the car through the window of Simeon's dealership , receiving a payment from Michael himself for doing what he called "a job well done". Because Franklin drove through the dealership and Lamar did not return the bike, Simeon fires both of them shortly after.
Franklin helping Michael pull down the house.
After losing his job at the dealership, Franklin approaches Michael about a drink he offhandedly offered him when he cost Franklin his repo job. Franklin helps Michael rescue Jimmy from his yacht , which was stolen with Jimmy on it during an attempted sale. Later, after Michael catches his wife Amanda post-coitus with her tennis coach , Michael and Franklin chase him to a house in the Vinewood Hills . Believing the house to belong to the tennis coach, Michael and Franklin use a pickup truck to pull the deck down, destroying the house. After returning to the De Santa Residence , drug lord Martin Madrazo appears and reveals that it was his lover's house, not the tennis coach's. He attacks Michael with a baseball bat and demands that Michael pay for the repairs to the house, which will cost $2,500,000.
Franklin and Lamar try to kidnap D.
Franklin is brought along by Lamar to kidnap a Balla gang member named D for no other reason than that Lamar saw "opportunity". He and Lamar meet up and travel in Lamar's van to Vinewood Boulevard and encounter D down an alley, but he makes an escape on a motorbike with the two in hot pursuit. With the help of Lamar's dog Chop , the two succeed in capturing D, however, they are forced to free him when Lamar inadvertently reveals their location to the police while talking on his mobile phone. Things took a turn for the worse when Stretch returns from his prison sentence and goes to a drug deal at Rogers Salvage & Scrap which was actually an ambush . Stretch kills D and the trio escape with Franklin angry at Stretch for coming back.
After some time has passed, Michael contacts Franklin to enlist him for the Vangelico Jewelry Store heist , which Franklin accepts as he sees this as his first legitimate payday and a major opportunity to prove himself. The heist is successful and Madrazo receives his money, with Michael and Franklin splitting the rest between themselves.
Michael, under orders from FIB agent Dave Norton , later infiltrates a morgue and kills several guards . In a panic, Michael calls Franklin and reveals that he is affiliated with the FIB , though Franklin continues to trust Michael due to the latter offering him help while he was in a tough financial position. Franklin also decides to work with Michael, in hopes that there will be better payment from jobs with him.
Lamar, Trevor and Franklin escape Grove Street .
During his various jobs with Michael, Franklin is introduced to Trevor Philips and Lester Crest , two of Michael's acquaintances from his former bank robbing days. Franklin's work causes him to distance himself from the Families. When Franklin returns to his house, Lamar and Denise heckle him for his "disloyalty". As Franklin explains that he doesn't want to be caught up in the routine of gang life again and wants the opportunity to make a success of himself, Trevor suddenly appears, wanting to "make new friends". Lamar informs Franklin that Stretch has arranged a drug deal with some Ballas, and Trevor decides to join them.
The trio (along with Chop) drive to a house in Grove Street , where Lamar is offered a sample from a cocaine brick, and is about to buy it before Trevor intervenes. Trevor snatches the brick from the dealer, and discovers the brick is actually drywall. A shootout erupts, and Franklin, Trevor and Lamar are forced to fight their way out of Grove Street when their van is disabled. Moments after the shootout, the LSPD shows up to chase them. Franklin and Trevor follow Lamar through a narrow alley into the Los Santos Storm Drain . They steal three Jetskis and head towards the open sea, eventually evading the police. Should Franklin follow Lamar, he tells him that he thinks Stretch set them up in an attempt to kill Lamar.
Eventually, Franklin and Michael are convinced by Trevor to steal an experimental super weapon from a private security company called Merryweather . The heist is a success, but shortly after, Lester arrives and angrily tells the trio to put the weapon back, as if they take it, they will be hunted by every known agency on the planet. While Trevor wants to keep it anyway, both Franklin and Michael agree that it isn't worth it. Trevor concedes and arranges for it to be taken back.
Devin asking Franklin to steal some rare cars for him.
Franklin gets employed by billionaire Devin Weston , who asks him, Trevor, Michael, and later Lamar to steal some rare cars for him so that he can export them to Asia. He also gets employed by Lester for several assassination jobs , which allow him to move to a spacious mansion , which belonged to Lester but needed someone to live in it to make it seem legit.
Unaware that Michael and Trevor were hiding in Trevor's Sandy Shores trailer after a job for Madrazo went south , Franklin begins looking for them. Arriving at the condo Trevor was using as a Los Santos base to inquire with his associates, cousins Wade and Floyd , about the matter, Franklin finds that Trevor has been targeted by the remaining O'Neil brothers , who are angry and vengeful at Trevor due to his earlier attack on the O'Neil household , resulting in the deaths of most of the O'Neils and the destruction of their farm . Franklin chases the O'Neils, who crash because of an elk on the road and escape into a forest in Raton Canyon . Eventually, Trevor and Michael arrive by helicopter . Using a rifle , fitted with a thermal scope, Michael shoots Walton and Wynn O'Neil dead, but can't get a clear shot of Elwood , who is hiding behind a rock and firing rockets towards the helicopter. With the help of Chop, Franklin locates and kills Elwood, after which he and Chop are picked up by Trevor and Michael and safely returned to Sandy Shores Airfield .
During this time, Franklin will receive a phone call from an unknown person, revealed to be Michael's wife Amanda . She asks him if her husband is okay, to which he replies that he's not, but that he's alive and she should call him. Amanda claims that she doesn't want to talk to Michael, but is calling just to make sure that he's not dead. She thanks him and also tells him not to tell Michael that she called.
Franklin helps Trevor and Michael rob the Blaine County Savings Bank , as it contains millions of dollars deposited there by Blaine County's corrupt law enforcement who extort money from all the local weed farms and meth labs. Using stolen military body armour and machine guns, Trevor, Michael, Franklin, and one gunman successfully rob the Paleto bank, taking a small cut each and giving the larger profit to Haines and Norton so they can purchase the required equipment for a robbery at the Humane Labs and Research chemical plant, much to the team's irritation.
Franklin is disappointed when he still hasn't been paid.
Franklin later receives a call from Lamar, who informs him that he's stolen the final car on Weston's list. Franklin meets Lamar and the two drive to Little Bighorn Avenue where Trevor is waiting with a Packer filled with the other cars the group have obtained for Weston. Franklin drives the car onto the last remaining spot on the Packer, after which he, Lamar, and Trevor begin the drive to the drop-off point. When the police discover the cars and give chase on the way, Franklin decides to unhitch one of the stolen cars, a JB 700 , and use its weapons to destroy the police cars. Trevor keeps the Packer steady while Franklin makes his way along the cargo carrier, eventually reaching the JB 700. Using the 700's caltrops and newly included guns, Franklin manages to take out the police pursuit. They drop off the cars, but Devin angers the trio by refusing to pay them , promising to "invest" their money and pay them at a later date.
Franklin confronts Trevor about Michael's whereabouts.
Annoyed, Franklin calls Michael, but discovers that his phone is down. Confused, he calls Lester, who relays that his phone has been on and off since he left for Ludendorff and suggests asking Trevor about it. When Trevor encounters Franklin at his aunt's house, he inquires where Michael is, to which Trevor explains that the Los Santos Triads kidnapped Michael while they were in Ludendorff. Franklin asks for his help rescuing him, but Trevor refuses, claiming Michael is "dead" to him, having discovered that Michael was responsible for a set up heist that they took part in , many years prior .
With Trevor's refusal to join him, Franklin decides to rescue Michael alone. He eventually tracks Michael's phone signal to a slaughterhouse using an app sent to his phone by Lester. After a shootout against the Triads, Franklin succeeds in rescuing Michael, and the two make their escape from the abattoir, where Franklin learns that Michael had aligned with Norton in order to get out of his criminal life and distance himself from the borderline psychotic Trevor.
Franklin and Michael are called for one more job for Steve Haines : breaking into the FIB building and removing incriminating evidence, as the Research Lab raid had resulted in his arrest, damaging his reputation. Infiltrating the building , the team manages to recover the data and escapes. They meet up with Lester and celebrate their victory with alcohol. After Michael leaves to settle things with the FIB, Franklin relaxes with Lester.
Michael, Franklin and Trevor prepare to rescue Lamar.
A while later, Franklin is visited at his house by his ex-girlfriend Tanisha, who tells him that Stretch set Lamar up again with a large group of the Ballas, who are holding him hostage at the Paleto Forest Sawmill . While Franklin is initially reluctant to help due to Lamar's stubborn insistence on sticking to a lifestyle that has done nothing for them, he is eventually convinced to do so. While on his way towards the sawmill, he asks Lester to contact Michael and Trevor to aid him in rescuing Lamar. The trio arrive and proceed to take out the Ballas. While bringing Lamar home, he and Franklin get into a small dispute, arguing about Franklin's many efforts to save Lamar from problems he got himself into and Lamar's feeling of abandonment on Franklin's part, though they agree that Stretch likely sold out to the Ballas while in prison. Franklin advises Lamar to remain civilized, to abandon his gang-banging lifestyle, and get a proper job.
After Lamar is dropped off, Franklin is suddenly confronted by the FIB agents blackmailing Michael, Steve Haines and Dave Norton, who task Franklin to kill Trevor, due to his violent behavior and general liability. Franklin refuses, asking them to recruit Michael to do it instead, but Norton explains that Michael is unable to because Trevor doesn't trust Michael and won't allow him anywhere near him.
Around this time, Franklin and the team plan and execute their final heist , stealing millions of dollars' worth of gold bullion from the Union Depository . They succeed and leave the gold with Lester, who will transfer them their cuts once a buyer for the gold is found.
After the heist, Franklin is visited by Devin Weston who orders him to kill Michael after he inadvertently caused the death of his lawyer , refused to shut down a movie he was producing, and interfered in his attempt to have his family killed . Franklin must choose to kill Trevor , kill Michael, or take on a suicide mission to save them both . Ultimately, Franklin chooses the third option.
Franklin contacts Lester and goes to meet him at his house to discuss the situation. Upon arriving, he tells Lester that Steve Haines wants him to kill Trevor and Devin Weston wants him to kill Michael and is struggling with how he's supposed to kill both. Lester comes up with an idea to take out all of their enemies at once by using their greed to their advantage. Weston and Haines are contacted and informed that foundry is where the gold stolen from the crew's final heist is located. Franklin contacts and picks up Lamar, who offers extra support, as he is surprised Franklin would help his friends "for a change". They arrive at the foundry with Lamar as the lookout while Franklin goes inside and finds Michael and Trevor arguing. After convincing them to stop and reach a common ground, the trio take positions around the foundry.
As Weston's hired Merryweather operatives and Haines's FIB team arrive, the trio opens fire, beginning a large scale shootout, which they eventually win. After the fighting ends, they contact Lester who provides them the locations of their enemies. Trevor goes after Steve Haines, Michael goes after Stretch, and Franklin goes after Wei Cheng ; each killing a different person's enemy in order to not associate the initial person with their enemy's death. Afterwards, Franklin meets Michael and Trevor, who kidnapped Devin in his car, at the foothills of Mount Chiliad . Seeing the defeated Devin, Franklin mocks him by saying "My bad homie. I picked C. Ain't that a bitch?" After further taunting Devin on their victory, the trio push his car off the cliff and into the ocean, where it promptly explodes, killing Devin. The three agree to end their criminal partnership with each other but promise to remain friends.
Franklin meets Trevor near an oil field with the latter completely unaware of the true meaning behind the meeting. Trevor laments the fact that Michael has been backstabbing him and but that he and Franklin are still friends. Franklin, however, pulls a gun on Trevor and explains that he is the crazy one, not him or Michael. Growing angry, Trevor remarks that he has been nothing but truthful to him which Franklin accepts while still holding Trevor at gunpoint. Betrayed, Trevor leaps back into his car and speeds off with Franklin close behind. The chase takes the pair around the city and eventually ends back at the oil fields. During the chase, Franklin calls Michael for help.
Michael soon arrives and rams Trevor's truck with his car, causing him to crash into a gas storage tank. Now covered in gasoline, Trevor pulls himself out of his car and crawls through a growing puddle of gas while accusing the pair of being Judases and angrily cursing them. Franklin can shoot the gasoline, however if he hesitates, Michael will shoot it instead. The gasoline ignites, burning Trevor to death after which the gas tank explodes. Walking away, Michael and Franklin reflect on Trevor's psychotic nature and that it was his constant unpredictable craziness that caused his death. The pair then split up with Franklin remarking that the whole event has been an "illuminating experience", which Michael responds to by telling him to survive and that everything else is "bullshit".
Afterwards, Franklin calls Haines, asking him to take care of Devin Weston, as he did not do what he asked. Haines lets Franklin know that he will but tells him to not contact him again. Franklin and Michael are still able to hang out (Unless they encounter each other in the street before Michael contacts him), though their friendship is visibly weakened, the pair often reminding themselves that they made the right choice. Jimmy calls Franklin and asks what happened to Trevor, to which Franklin responds that Steve Haines's men killed him. After this call, Jimmy and Franklin are unable to hang out. Lamar calls Franklin and tells him that he was right about his suspicions on Stretch and that he has to lay low for awhile. As such, the pair can only hang out at night. Franklin receives a call from Tanisha who lets him know that she is about to get married and to stay out of trouble. Lester contacts Franklin to let him know that he split Trevor's cut from their final heist between Franklin and Michael.
After killing Trevor, Michael will begin to feel indifferent towards Franklin despite having a hand in the murder, eventually breaking ties with him.
Michael with meets Franklin in the desert to reflect on their partnership. However, he catches on to Franklin's intention to kill him and escapes in his car with Franklin in pursuit, eventually ending up at the Palmer-Taylor Power Station . They continue the chase on foot to one of the chimney walkways and after a minor scuffle, Franklin pushes Michael off the edge, quickly grabbing him while he hangs precariously from the rail. Here, Franklin can choose to save him or drop him, but either way, Michael falls to his death. Devastated and remorseful, Franklin walks away from the station and calls Lamar, asking to hang out.
Afterwards, Franklin calls Devin, asking him to take care of Steve Haines, as he did not do what he asked. Weston lets Franklin know that Haines has already been taken care of, but Franklin has run out of uses for Weston, who tells him to not contact him again. Franklin receives two calls from Jimmy. In the first call, Jimmy asks Franklin if he knows where Michael is, to which Franklin claims that he does not. In the second call, Jimmy has learned of Michael's death and asks Franklin what he knows about it. When Franklin stammers in his responses to Jimmy's questions, he deduces that Franklin had something to do with it and angrily hangs up. After this, Jimmy and Franklin are unable to hang out.
Franklin also receives an email from Amanda, claiming that she knows he was responsible for Michael's death and to stay away from her family. Franklin responds, claiming that he was not involved. Lamar calls Franklin and tells him that he was right about his suspicions on Stretch, and that has to lay low for a while. As such, the pair can only hang out at night. Franklin receives a call from Tanisha, who lets him know that she is getting married and to stay out of trouble. Lester contacts Franklin to let him know that him and Trevor won't see any of Michael's cut from the heist, as he chose to give it to Michael's family.
After killing Michael, Trevor asks Franklin via email if he had a hand in Michael's murder. Franklin replies by saying he did not kill Michael, but Trevor responds by saying he does not believe him. If Franklin approaches Trevor, he will berate Franklin, saying that Michael was too good for him, and despite his animosity towards Michael, Trevor implies he would have eventually forgiven him. Trevor ends the conversation by warning Franklin to never approach him again.
Franklin Clinton in 2021 , along with Lamar Davis (left), Imani (right), and Chop .
Having walked away from the Union Depository heist with somewhere between $9 million and $42 million, Franklin went on to become a legitimate businessman through investments and other plays. Despite Tanisha bidding Franklin an amicable goodbye the day before her wedding with Jayden at the end of GTA V , her relationship with Jayden somehow ended and she reunited with Franklin. Tanisha married Franklin, moved into his home at 3671 Whispymound Drive , and started a family with him. As of December 2021 , the house is now adorned with children's toys and a slide in the backyard, and an ornamental front wall sign reading "The Clintons". By this time, their children have already started going to school.
In 2021, Franklin and his new partner, the GTA Online Protagonist , co-found F. Clinton and Partner , a new "celebrity solutions agency" catering to the Vinewood elite in need of solutions to high-society problems. Franklin also welcomes aboard Imani , the tech-savvy daughter of one of his old friends from Chamberlain Hills , and relents to Lamar imposing himself on their new partnership. Franklin still has Chop, now an elderly rottweiler. Through Imani, Franklin is made aware of the GTA Online Protagonist's criminal history and commends them for their accomplishments. Franklin also mentions to the player their mutual contacts Trevor and Lester and fondly remembers their adventures together.
Upon starting his partnership with the GTA Online Protagonist, Franklin admits he missed getting his hands dirty and compares his new agency's scope of work to the personal drama -laden situations he helped Michael with early in their friendship. It is revealed during On Course that Franklin still keeps in touch with Michael; their Agency Security Guard also alludes to turning Trevor away when he hoped to visit Franklin, who was not in the office at the time.
DJ Pooh has been reaching out to Franklin about an exciting potential client: his close friend, Dr. Dre , whose phone containing unreleased music was stolen one year ago , before he was supposed to take a flight to Cayo Perico to host a beach party . Franklin takes the GTA Online Protagonist to meet Dr. Dre at the Los Santos Golf Club , where DJ Pooh, Jimmy Iovine , and Dre himself are playing golf. When two golfers interrupt to demand that they be allowed to play, threatening to use their connections to evict Dre and his friends from the golf course, a furious Dre snaps his golf club over his knee. The terrified golfers flee, and the protagonist and Franklin proceed to chase them in golf carts, ramming them into submission.
Franklin and Imani tracking down Johnny Guns .
Impressed by what he saw, Dr. Dre decides to officially hire F. Clinton and Partner to recover his phone. Imani, using data recovered by the player from the FIB Headquarters , discovers that, on top of Dre's stolen phone, three unreleased tracks from the phone are being demoed out by different people. One is a member of the Los Santos Vagos , one is a club promoter with ties to the Triads , and one is an affluent billionaire who dabbles in cryptocurrencies. Thus, Dre asks Franklin and the GTA Online Protagonist to recover the music before the tracks are leaked to the public.
After taking all three men down and retrieving the stolen music, Imani finds that the last person who has Dre's phone is Johnny Guns , a rival executive and producer for WesLos Records . Dre then tells Franklin and the GTA Online Protagonist that they need to recover the phone at all costs, while vowing to kill Guns himself. Shortly after, however, Guns sends his hired gunmen to attack Dre's recording studio, Record A Studios , in an attempt to murder him. The protagonist defends the studio, after which Imani is able to pinpoint Guns' exact location. Franklin instructs the protagonist to find and subdue Guns , but keep him alive as Dr. Dre plans to personally exact retribution on him.
After dealing with Johnny Guns, DJ Pooh invites the GTA Online Protagonist, an associate, Franklin and Lamar for a tour inside Dr. Dre's recording studio. Lamar attempts to make his own rap with a beat provided by DJ Pooh, while the GTA Online Protagonist and their associate go take a smoke in the room next door. Franklin later joins them, but Lamar stops him from smoking weed as he mentions that Tanisha will be annoyed if Franklin gets high. When Franklin and Lamar check on their partners, they have become so high that they are having "an out-of-body experience".
Lamar and Franklin witnessing the Mule being stolen.
Lamar then pulls Franklin out to deal with some business, asking DJ Pooh to look after their partners in their absence. Franklin and Lamar get in the latter's Emperor and travel to his warehouse to check on his storage of weed. When they reach the warehouse, however, Lamar realizes that it is being raided by the Vagos, and both he and Franklin proceed to fight them. Chop also assists in the fight by biting a Vagos member and leading the two to enter the warehouse. Just as they clear the compound of Vagos and are about to leave, however, Franklin and Lamar see the delivery truck being driven off.
Promptly following it, the two are able to catch up with the driver and hide in the back of the truck. However, their bickering alerts the truck's driver to their presence, and he calls in a hit. Within moments, an entire Vagos hitsquad arrives and begins shooting at the back of the truck, forcing Franklin and Lamar to shoot back. After the truck stops in an alleyway opposite the Oriental Theater , Franklin and Lamar get out and eliminate the remaining Vagos, including the driver, from whom they recover the keys to the truck. However, as they return to the truck and prepare to drive it away, they witness the truck exploding due to the damage it had sustained during the gunfight.
Some time later , Lamar asks for Franklin's assistance in storming the Vagos' weed business in Blaine County as payback for them having destroyed his stash in the Mule Truck. They reach the Vagos' first weed warehouse on Marina Drive near the Alamo Sea and attack the Vagos. After defeating them, they pick up Jerry Cans containing flammable fertilizer that they pour over the weed, and set it on fire to burn it all down. Exiting the warehouse, more Vagos arrive in weaponized Technicals , and Franklin and Lamar escape in a Technical with a mounted minigun while being chased by Vagos in Mananas and Buzzard Attack Choppers .
Lamar and Franklin arriving at the Vagos warehouse.
They eventually reach the Vagos' next warehouse on Chianski Passage near Grapeseed, where they use fertilizer again to set the weed on fire. They then take one of the Vagos' Youga Classics filled with equipment for growing weed that Lamar can use, again fending off Vagos along the way, now in Ballers and Faction Customs . After losing the Vagos, the pair arrive at Franklin's home, where Lamar asks to come in. When Franklin refuses because "his kids are inside", Lamar proceeds to roast him over his parental skills, similarly to how he roasted him over his "yee-yee ass haircut" eight years ago.
After a while , Lamar and Franklin go to the recording studio for a third time, where Lamar again asks for Franklin's assistance. He starts by showing him his new LD Organics van which is "made of weed", saying that the entire van is made of "LD Organics Patented Marijuana Bioplastic". Franklin considers this a bad move and asks Lamar how he's planning to put it in a blunt if it's a part of the van itself, to which Lamar just asks him to follow along.
He tells Franklin that he was able to make a connection with actor Jimmy Boston from the Epsilon Program to promote LD Organics , as having a celebrity endorse the brand will definitely bring more attention to the business. However, Franklin, having been in the big scene and interacted with people with big personalities, warns Lamar of the oddities of such famous people and tells him to be careful of "them Kifflom freaks" as they are known to be shady. Lamar downplays it, but tells Franklin to be ready with a sniper in a nearby crane just in case. As they approach the meeting site, Lamar mentions that he posted a selfie of himself at his "top-secret location" on Snapmatic, which is later revealed to have included info that gave it away to the Vagos.
Franklin providing cover to Lamar with a sniper rifle.
Once they reach the meeting point with Jimmy and his fellow Epsilonist Marnie Allen at the Redwood Lights Track , Franklin goes to the nearby crane with his sniper rifle while Lamar talks business with Jimmy and Marnie. Jimmy reveals his plans to transform Lamar's van into a truck with his own face on it, to serve as an advertisement for Boston Bakes, i.e. Jimmy's own brand of weed. Lamar, realizing Jimmy was never serious about endorsing him and just wanted to use him to promote his own brand, becomes annoyed. Franklin then calls him to tell him not to go through with the deal, as the Vinewood elite always try to take away all the recognition.
As they are talking, Franklin suddenly sees Vagos coming towards them in Primo Customs and warns Lamar about it. Lamar immediately tells Jimmy and Marnie to get away while he and Franklin clear the area of the arriving Vagos. Once the area is clear, Franklin and Lamar start driving the van back into the city. Along the way, Lamar admits that the deal was a bad idea and that he shouldn't have expected success overnight.
During the drive, more Vagos attack Franklin and Lamar and shoot at the van which, coupled with the sun's heat, causes the weed to start burning, leading to both Franklin and Lamar getting high. Initially, they assume that the smell is coming from someone else smoking nearby and that the entire city has the smell, but they eventually realise that it is their own van burning. They manage to fight off the Vagos and try to drive the van back to Lamar's compound, but Lamar, seeing an opportunity, decides to take the van towards Tequi-la-la instead, hoping to use it as a publicity stunt to show the quality of his product. However, as they are both high, they end up crashing the van into the club.
Franklin and Lamar outside Tequi-la-la with the burning weed van.
A crowd quickly forms around the scene to investigate the crash, and Lamar immediately seizes the opportunity to promote his business. As the people start feeling the effects of the burning weed, they enjoy it and begin taking pictures and cheering for LD Organics. Franklin and Lamar take several pictures together before the former mentions needing to get home to Tanisha. Following some brief banter and Lamar offering Franklin an "internship" at LD Organics, Franklin walks off down the street in style.
In late 2023 , Franklin was invited by DJ Pooh to a nightclub party hosted by Dâm-Funk for West Coast Classics ' 10th anniversary. As part of the radio station's promotion, DJ Pooh gave away media sticks containing a pre-recorded audio of Dâm-Funk's Even the Score live mix for those who missed the party.
At the 20-minute mark of the mix, Franklin tries to give a shoutout to DJ Pooh on the microphone. However, Lamar takes the microphone off his hands, annoyed that Franklin is "always winning", and tries to give a shoutout himself, although interrupted by Franklin. This results in Dâm-Funk calling the nightclub security to separate the duo fighting over the microphone.
In late 2025 , while fighting KnoWay Mercenaries alongside the GTA Online Protagonist during the mission Home Sweet Home , Michael De Santa remarks that he can see why the protagonist and Franklin make a good team, and asks them to tell Franklin that "[Michael] said hi". He also mentions that he "love[s] that kid", confirming that Michael and Franklin have remained close friends.
Characters murdered by Franklin Clinton in the main storyline of both Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Characters optionally murdered by Franklin Clinton, depending on the player's choice.
Characters optionally murdered by Franklin Clinton during the Strangers and Freaks missions, depending on the player's choice.
Characters optionally murdered by Franklin Clinton in Grand Theft Auto V , although not intended to be killed . These characters are still alive regardless of the player's choice, and some of them physically appears in the post-2013 events of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Franklin is described as ambitious, but perhaps to a fault, and very eager to take on new illegal challenges. He is also described as a "logical way of showing a young man with a lot of hope", with Dan Houser claiming that this would be a nice contrast from Michael. He also is a person that, even though is being mentored by Michael in crime, mentors Michael in life. This helps build up the Father-Son relationship between the two.
Franklin is much calmer than both Michael, who has a very short temper, and Trevor, who is a violent sociopath. This calm personality is often displayed during missions where he keeps it cool while fulfilling the task at hand, and when he is forced to act as the peacekeeper between Michael and Trevor when they get into an argument. Though Lamar drives him crazy at times, Franklin still cares for his best friend as he saves him from the Ballas with the help of Trevor and Michael during the events of Lamar Down . He is also the same toward the two, as he is seen helping them out with most of their problems, like when Amanda cheats on Michael and he and the latter chase Amanda's tennis coach during Marriage Counseling , and when he helps Trevor and Michael hunt down the remaining O'Neil brothers during Predator. This, however, also leads to others around him to consider him "disloyal", most notably his Aunt Denise, to such an extent that Denise threatens to call the police on him if he sets foot in their yard. Despite what Denise says, Franklin does demonstrate loyalty for people that are close to him and for people who change his life, like Lamar, who is Franklin's best friend, and Michael, who helped him become a "three-bit" gangster and high-profile criminal.
Unlike Michael or Trevor however, his relationships with those close to him are even more fragile and in the end fail to heal the rift with his associates, unlike Michael and, to a lesser extent, Trevor. His messy breakup with Tanisha is left unresolved and ends on less than satisfactory terms when she chooses to marry another man over saving their relationship. His aunt turns his room into a safe shelter for women after he moves out and Stretch remains on antagonistic terms with Franklin. Franklin also potentially jeopardizes his relationship with his partners in crime Michael, Lamar and Trevor should the player choose to kill either Trevor or Michael as the survivor loses their trust in Franklin, and Lamar is forced to hide from Stretch.
Many characters in the game (Denise, Lamar, Tonya, Stretch, Tanisha, and even Michael and Trevor in ending A and B) accuse Franklin of being disloyal, arrogant, and abandoning his "homies". For the most part, however, these accusations seem unfounded - ironically, most of these discussions happen while Franklin is actually helping out his friends. Franklin's hostility towards Stretch becomes justified late in the game when it becomes clear Stretch has betrayed him and Lamar. However, if the player chooses ending A or ending B, the above accusations are confirmed.
Franklin's ambition is also his greatest weakness. In all of his work, aside from Lester's assassination jobs , several major heists he was roped into, and Michael's repayment for doing him a favor, Franklin never earns a single cent out of his dealings due to his shortsightedness and poor choice of people to work with. All of Lamar's jobs ended up with both of them nearly being killed by the Ballas and his work for Weston ends with him being taken advantage of in both instances where he does his bidding.
Despite not knowing them very well, Franklin also gets along with Michael's family, as shown when Jimmy befriends him and when Amanda responds kindly whenever Franklin greets her while she is home. He doesn't get along with Stretch very well, due to Stretch trying to pull Franklin back into the life that put him in jail in the first place, Stretch's reckless and unintelligent personality, and later on, his disloyalty; he sells out people who are associated with Franklin.
In contrast to Michael and especially Trevor, Franklin is an incredibly tidy person, always trying to keep his image, his vehicles, and his house clean. This is evident in some switch cutscenes , where he can be seen cleaning his Buffalo S and his Bagger . While his personal bedroom at the Clinton Residence was somewhat messy, after moving into his mansion he makes an effort to do house chores like taking out the garbage or ironing his clothes. He likes also to keep his body in shape, as he's seen doing exercise, like pull ups on the free-use bars at Vespucci Beach , or push-ups in his room or the backyard, and after moving, next to his pool. He is also mindful of what he eats; when having Phat Chips , he will remark on what level of exercise he will have to perform to work off the calories, or how he needs to buy some healthy food (so that he doesn't end up reaching for junk food instead).
Franklin seems to suffer from depression/self-hatred due to the perceived lack of success and his breakup with Tanisha, when he is high on marijuana he often comments on how empty and alone he feels. He shows some regret with his decision to become a criminal but feels he is in too deep to walk away. In a similar vein to Trevor during shootouts, Franklin might shout at his enemies to shoot him. His lack of initiative hints at insecurity, which further demonstrates a possible mood disorder. Lamar calls Franklin a "moody motherfucker" when giving him the Bagger they stole from Simeon after repossessing it. His Switch Scenes implies he is lonely, as many show him roaming around the city alone, and further in the story, he rarely leaves his house due to lack of friends and family who are on good terms with him. The situation improves or worsen at the end of the game depending on the choices he makes involving Michael and Trevor. If he chooses to save them, he finds new-found support with them as dysfunctional but great friends, however if chooses to kill either of them, the other person breaks off contact with Franklin and Lamar goes into hiding. Franklin is also quite tolerant of other people's sexualities as he says to Beverly that he doesn't care if Clay Jackson is gay.
Franklin does not appear to be able to handle pressure very well. If the player chooses to kill either Michael or Trevor, Franklin tries to justify his actions by claiming it "wasn't really his decision," or that he "didn't have a choice". He lacks initiative and assertiveness when confronted by people who were more influential than he was. Rather than attempting to bargain with Haines or Weston to at least pay him for betraying his closest friends, he only realizes after committing the deed that he was ultimately used and discarded by both of them when asking for more opportunities to work for them. If the player chooses the Deathwish ending, Franklin will initially complain to Lester that he "can't kill both of 'em" before eventually coming up with a plan to spare them both.
In Grand Theft Auto V , Franklin has been described as "fit" and "fashion conscious". He is 6' 1" [ 10 ] (1.85 m) in height. He is mostly seen wearing a blue button-up shirt over a white long-sleeved t-shirt, dark blue jeans with white stripes and a pair of wheat-colored boots. In the "Michael, Trevor and Franklin" artwork, he is seen wearing a light yellow plaid button-up shirt and stonewashed blue jeans. He also sported the same outfit in "The Trunk" artwork. He is seen in the "Franklin and Chop" artwork wearing a tank-top, khaki shorts along with a bracelet on his right wrist and a black watch on his left wrist. In "Three's Company", he is seen wearing his L.S. sweater, black jeans and Desert Boots. Initially, Franklin shows aproval to clothing from Ponsonby's and Suburban, while being neutral towards the cheaper, gang related options at Binco and The discount shop. Following the mission The Hotel Assassination, Franklin's taste in clothing changes, from then on he shows total disdain to Binco and The Discount shop and is only neutral to Suburban. During friendship activities with Michael, Franklin may state that he used to be fatter, but managed to lose weight. Michael claims that he can "kind of see it". Lamar also chides him for not wanting to walk around the block to the van, claiming "...you need to walk with your fat ass," in the mission Chop . Omega also claims that Franklin has "slightly excessive adipose tissue".
In Grand Theft Auto Online , Franklin appears to have aged by 2021, and now has noticable gray hairs, and now sports a heavy stubble beard. He has two outfits he wears in The Contract update; one is a light gray suit with a black t-shirt underneath, a platinum "LS" chain and black sneakers, while his other outfit is only worn during the Short Trips and consists of a unbuttoned plaid shirt with a gray t-shirt and an alloy chain, black jeans, a Güffy cap and grey sneakers. Both outfits contain clothes which can also be purchased by the GTA Online Protagonist.
Franklin is the youngest of the three protagonists and is capable of tackling challenging tasks that Michael and Trevor cannot, and has a level of physical prowess that both Michael and Trevor lack. As being a repossession agent, he is a skilled driver behind the wheel of any car. As shown during the GI demo, he was described as being able to make short work of the agents that were interrogating the target and is often seen as a competent gunman throughout the game.
Franklin's Special Ability allows him to slow down time while driving, improving his driving handling.
His special ability can only be used while driving any four-wheeled vehicle or motorcycle. When activated, it allows him to easily take corners at full speed and escape possible accidents with ease. By enhancing this skill, its maximum storage capacity is increased, which also increases the duration the ability can be activated. Franklin's Special Ability begins at one-third of maximum capacity (10 seconds), and it lasts for 30 seconds when at maximum capacity. The special ability also applies to drive-by shootings, as well as when driving the Rhino tank, making Franklin able to land even more precise shots while operating the main cannon.
Just like Michael and Trevor, Franklin has received a very positive response from critics and fans of the series.
" Franklin was the idea of this street hustler in the modern world where the glory days – if there ever were glory days of gang banging – had long since passed. When some of the illusions of this life have been shattered, what do you do now having been in that world? That seemed like an interesting character; a guy in his mid-to-late 20s who wants to move forward but doesn't really know how and is being held back by some of his more idiotic and dangerous friends. "
" The idea with Franklin was someone stepping outside their comfort zone and their normal way of doing things, because that way, even though they're still in their mid-20s or whatever, that hasn't worked. That world that they thought they'd be in and be able to make a success of has, thanks to the modern world or the changes in the economy or whatever it is, just failed. It doesn't really exist. They're now looking for something new. A new opportunity. They've gotten their qualifications and gotten all their experience and all they're good at is driving and robbing. How do actually go forward and who do you get to a kind of mentor you? That was a good contrast. The gang-banger in the post-gang-banging world. "
With the release of The Contract update, players can call Franklin to access one of the following options:
This option triggers a random Security Contracts mission, which can be activated by becoming a VIP/CEO of an organization or an MC president.
This option will activate a Payphone Hit at the nearest payphone. It will be marked on the map with .
This option will spawn the Agency SUV nearby. It will be marked with on the map.
This option requests the Agency SUV marked on the map with that works similarly to calling a Taxi . By default, the SUV will bring the player to the Agency, but one can choose a different location by setting a waypoint on the GPS . The player also has the option to hurry the limo driver or leave the vehicle at any point during the drive.
The player can request a supply stash for $5,000. After requesting, it will be stashed near the player and will be marked with . The option has a cooldown of ten minutes. Collecting the supply stash will replenish the player's health and armor. Plus, they will get two Grenades , two Sticky Bombs , two rockets for the RPG , and two magazines for each type of firearm.
Close-up of Franklin's wallet
Texture file of the wallet
Close-up of the wallet
Texture file of the wallet
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Michael De Santa , formerly Michael Townley , is a character appearing as one of the three protagonists in Grand Theft Auto V , alongside Franklin Clinton and Trevor Philips , and as a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the A Safehouse in the Hills update. He is portrayed by Ned Luke .
Michael is a retired career criminal and bank robber living in Los Santos , San Andreas , with his family under new identities, after Michael made a secret deal with corrupt FIB agent Dave Norton , who helped him fake his death. Dissatisfied with his seemingly idyllic and halcyon lifestyle, and wishing to relive his 'glory days', Michael eventually returns to a life of crime, which brings unforeseen consequences as Michael is forced to confront past demons that come back to haunt him.
By the conclusion of Grand Theft Auto V 's storyline, Michael is able to find new comfort in his life as a family man, and once again retires from his criminal career to become a movie producer. By 2025 , during the events of Grand Theft Auto Online , he still retains this position, having established his own film production company, De Santa , which brought him much fame and success.
Michael was born in either 1965 or 1968 in the Midwest . As a child, he did not have the luxuries and privileges that his own children have, and he grew up in the deprived environment of a trailer park with his parents. [ 5 ]
Like Trevor and Franklin, Michael had a tough upbringing due to his alcoholic and physically abusive father, who later abandoned him. [ 6 ] Michael's mother, who also abandoned him later, told him numerous versions of why his father left, which included, but were not limited to, him skipping town, being run over by a train and joining the navy. [ 7 ] Afterwards, he was left homeless until he became an adult.
In his high school years, Michael was an acclaimed quarterback for an all-state football team, even putting an amazing performance during his games and occasionally had his picture in the local newspaper. He wanted to go pro, but his temperament issues and constant injuries ultimately forced him to quit. [ 8 ]
As a young adult, Michael began a life of crime. According to himself, he was imprisoned twice by the time he was twenty. [ 9 ] While in prison, he learned many skills, including how to use a tattoo gun by tattooing his name on his cellmate's buttocks. He committed his first robbery sometime in 1988 , where he managed to steal $ 10,000 from a small business on the outskirts of Carcer City . Despite his failures and shortcomings, Michael perfected his criminal skills to become an expert marksman and efficient heist leader. During this period, he associated himself with Lester Crest , an exquisite planner who would later assist Michael in arranging heists and other tasks.
Michael met Trevor Philips while escorting cargo across the Canadian border. While Trevor waited to meet his unknown employer, he noticed not one but two dust trails coming up the road, although he was told there would only be one person meeting him with the cargo. Michael exited the first vehicle while an older civilian exited the second. As it turned out, the more senior civilian had been carjacked by Michael. As Michael tried to make a hasty escape on foot, the older civilian attempted to get Trevor's attention on what had happened. Trevor approached the civilian and fired a flare gun into the man's eye, brutally killing him. He and Michael dumped the body into a lake afterward, which Trevor later described as horrible as the flare was still burning inside the man's skull. Trevor and Michael both threw up since the stench from the burning corpse remained.
After noticing how well they worked together, Michael brought an aimless Trevor under his wing as a partner for various crimes he would commit. They were both somewhat successful in their profession. Still, Michael claims they were always impecunious and constantly on the run from the law, as Trevor's rage issues would cause him to murder someone in broad daylight, while Michael's circumspection, foresight, and distinctive style of quoting from Solomon Richards ' films drew attention, causing him and Trevor to quickly leave town after completing a job. The duo, along with Lester and a few other accomplices, committed robberies across the Midwest for a while. [ 10 ]
Sometime in the early 1990s, Michael, Trevor, and one of their associates went to a strip club where they met a stripper named Amanda . Though she initially took a liking to the third man, she eventually came onto Michael. After flirting with each other, the couple started a romantic relationship. Using money earned from illicit activities, Michael bought Amanda breast implants, which would help with her stripping and prostitution career. This led to Michael creating his own prostitution racket. After a few months of dating, Michael married Amanda and had two children, Tracey and Jimmy, and lived at a trailer park in the Midwest. Eventually, Trevor began to consider Michael "soft" as he started questioning his criminal lifestyle, fearing for his family. As a result, Michael began to dislike Trevor and his mentally unstable antics, feeling that he might one day hurt his wife and kids.
Later, Trevor met a fellow crook named Brad Snider and introduced him to Michael. Michael and Brad never showed empathy for each other and often expressed mutual distaste and distrust when working together. According to Trevor, Brad planned at one point to cut off Michael and work solely with Trevor, but Trevor refused out of loyalty to the man who gave his life purpose.
Michael's score in the Prologue .
At some point in 2004 , Michael met corrupt FIB agent Dave Norton and made a clandestine agreement to cut ties with Trevor and Brad in exchange for the ability to disappear and start a new life. By paying Dave a monthly five-figure amount, he would relocate Michael and his family to Los Santos and provide them with new identities to start over. As part of their illegitimate deal, Michael informed Dave of their upcoming robbery at a cash storage facility in Ludendorff , North Yankton . The two devised a plan in which Norton would wait for the trio near their getaway site with a Sniper Rifle and kill Trevor, due to his borderline insanity and whom Michael believed would come after him and his family should he find out about his role in the plan; shoot Michael, who, while actually wearing a bulletproof vest, would pretend to bleed out; and arrest Brad. The plan would benefit both Michael and Dave, as the former would walk away with a clean slate, while the latter would be given a career boost for taking down the supposed "Most Wanted Man in America".
The staged robbery , however, was a disaster in execution after the guard at the front gate was shot in the head and killed; Trevor murdered a guard who snuck up on Michael, pulled off his balaclava, and held him at gunpoint; and when Michael, Brad, and Trevor were ambushed by over a dozen police officers ready to apprehend them, giving the robbers no choice but to shoot their way out. During the getaway, their driver was killed by pursuing police, forcing Michael to take the wheel and drive the crew to the ambush point he and Norton had agreed on, where he claimed there was a helicopter waiting for their arrival. The plan almost failed after their vehicle was hit by a train at a railroad crossing as they attempted to avoid a roadblock of North Yankton State Patrol vehicles .
Michael checking on Brad , who was fatally shot.
Things further deviated from the original plan when Norton accidentally shot Brad instead of Trevor due to him walking into the line of fire. Norton then proceeded to shoot Michael as planned, and as he pretended to bleed out, Michael begged Trevor to leave him behind. Enraged beyond sense, Trevor proceeded to shoot numerous arriving police officers and briefly take a woman passing by hostage before barely escaping the ambush with his life. Trevor was never caught by the police and eventually went into hiding.
After the incident, Michael Townley was declared dead, "buried" in the Ludendorff cemetary , and given a funeral. In actuality, it was Brad who was buried in Michael's grave, having died from his gunshot wound. Norton and Michael both attended the funeral, with the latter watching from a distance. News reports stated that Michael had been killed, Brad had been imprisoned, and that Trevor remained at large. Michael eventually concluded that Trevor had ended up getting himself killed, but never received confirmation of this assumption.
Upon their relocation to Los Santos, Michael and his family moved into a mansion in Rockford Hills , using the new surname "De Santa", which had been a long-term alias of Michael's.
Michael's life in Los Santos slowly deteriorated. He began to grow increasingly unhappy over leaving his criminal escapades behind for the family life he believed he desired, spending most of his days numbing his depression by either getting drunk, miserably lounging by his pool, or cheating on Amanda with multiple strippers, which Amanda eventually caught in the act. Michael's neglect and narcissism, along with his cheating, caused Amanda to spend much of their savings on plastic surgery and begin cheating as well, in order to get back at her husband. Their marriage eventually became a pseudo-open relationship, with unwritten rules that the other wouldn't find out about anyone they slept with, it wouldn't be on the other's dime, and it wouldn't be done in the house. [ 11 ] At the same time, Tracey and Jimmy stopped showing their father any respect due to his disapproval for their less-than-ideal lifestyle choices: Jimmy for being a lazy, video game-obsessed stoner and Tracey for being a diva willing to do anything to become famous.
Suffering from a midlife crisis and a failing marriage, Michael began visiting Isiah Friedlander , an overpriced psychologist caring very little for Michael's problems. At some point, Friedlander prescribed medication to Michael that caused him to cry, wet his pants, sleep at the dinner table, and howl in the middle of the night. Figuring he got the doses wrong, he took Michael off them.
In 2013 , nine years after Michael faked his death, and after another therapy session with Dr. Friedlander, Michael has a chance encounter with his future partner-in-crime, Franklin Clinton , when he unknowingly points Franklin and his friend, Lamar Davis , in the direction of the location for their repossession job.
Michael in 2013 .
A short while later, Jimmy buys an SUV from Simeon Yetarian , an Armenian car salesman (and Franklin's boss), who runs a credit fraud scam, selling the car to Jimmy on the agreement of him paying monthly installments of $5,000. After "defaulting" on a payment, Simeon has Franklin repossess the car from the De Santa Residence. He sneaks into the property and finds Jimmy's SUV parked in the garage, however, as he commandeers the vehicle and drives away from the property, Michael emerges from under some blankets in the back seat and points a pistol at Franklin's skull. The older man instructs Franklin to continue driving to the car dealership so he can meet the man who ordered the false repo job. During the trip, he sarcastically offers to buy Franklin a drink later. Upon arrival, Michael, still holding Franklin at gunpoint, demands that he drive through the front window of the dealership, which Franklin reluctantly does. Michael pays Franklin to leave before assaulting Yetarian, threatening him with more violence if he tries to rip off Michael or his family again.
A few days later, during a heated argument between Tracey and Amanda, Michael escapes to his backyard with a glass of whisky in his hand and lies in a lawn chair while listening to "I Don't Care Anymore" on his iFruit smartphone . As he relaxes, he is suddenly interrupted by Franklin, who took up Michael's earlier "offer" of a drink. Surprised that Franklin took it literally, Michael agrees to bring him to a nearby bar. On the way, however, Jimmy phones Michael and informs him that he tried to sell Michael's yacht , but the " buyers " hijacked the truck carrying it with him still on board. A furious Michael, with Franklin in tow, gives chase to the hijackers in Amanda's Sentinel and manages to rescue Jimmy but cannot recover the yacht as the car's engine stalls, having sustained damage during the chase. Michael is furious with Jimmy but is also impressed by Franklin's actions during the event, having climbed onto the boat and rescued Jimmy while fighting off the attackers.
Later on, Michael returns home to discover Amanda sleeping with her tennis coach , who escapes wearing just his underwear. Franklin shows up, and the duo chase after the coach in a truck to a stilt house in Vinewood Hills , where Michael, fueled with rage and adrenaline, commands Franklin to hook the truck's winch around the supports of the house's deck. Using the power of the truck's engine, Michael loosens the supports, causing most of the deck to collapse and crumble down the hillside, which shocks Franklin but also leaves Michael feeling satisfied with himself.
Martin Madrazo assaulting Michael .
During the drive back to Michael's house, he receives a call from the tennis coach and learns that the house does not belong to him, but rather to the mistress of Martin Madrazo , a powerful Mexican cartel leader. She sends a hit squad after Michael and Franklin for their actions, and the pair manage to fend the attackers off, but Madrazo and some of his associates soon arrive at Michael's house to confront them. Franklin informs Michael of the latter's reputation as Madrazo orders his cousin to hand him a baseball bat , which he immediately uses to bludgeon Michael lightly. Madrazo orders Michael to pay for the rebuilding of the house at the cost of $2,500,000 - money which Michael does not have - and threatens further violence upon him if he does not provide the funds before leaving. Michael realizes that to get the money, he will have to re-enter a life of crime and calls his old contact, Lester.
Later, Michael is watching a noir-style movie, but Jimmy's loud swearing through his headset while playing video games distracts Michael from enjoying it, so he decides to venture upstairs to chastise his son. After Jimmy insults and tells him to leave, Michael throws a chair at the television. This riles Jimmy up, furthering Michael's rage to the point where he eventually dares Jimmy to hit him. However, the heat quickly dies, and Michael apologizes, but tells Jimmy he's wasting his life by doing nothing productive. Michael convinces a reluctant and still angry Jimmy to drive to Vespucci Beach with him for some father and son time; however, even in the car , Jimmy still argues with and about Michael and his poor mental health, going as far as to blame his father for his own problems.
Michael trying to take Tracey away from the yacht .
At the beach, they have a short bicycle race and finish at the Del Perro Pier . Still mad at Michael for breaking his TV and bringing him outside, Jimmy decides to upset his father by pointing out a luxurious and large yacht in the distance and explaining how Tracey is on board, hanging out with porn producers and potentially having sex with them. Furious that Jimmy only agreed to hang out with him under ulterior motives and enraged at the thought of his daughter hanging around with strange, perverted men, Michael takes his shirt off and dives into the sea , swimming to the yacht . He eventually climbs aboard and very quickly begins to cause drama by throwing a portable speaker overboard and pushing a man off the side. He takes Tracey back ashore against her will on a Seashark , but not before two of the producers give chase after him, leading to a shootout. Michael ultimately escapes and finally returns to dry land. Upon reaching the beach, Tracey and Jimmy leave, the former being angry at Michael.
Michael eventually meets with Lester, who agrees to help Michael get the money needed to pay off Madrazo, but only if he decides to sabotage a prototype phone due to be unveiled at an event keynote by Jay Norris , founder of the social networking site Lifeinvader . Michael infiltrates the Lifeinvader Office and meets a computer programmer named Rickie Lukens , who mistakes Michael for an IT technician. Rickie invites him upstairs to fix his computer, where Michael has to close dozens of pop-ups and run antivirus software to rid the computer of the viruses.
Afterwards, Michael then finds the prototype phone and swaps the battery for an explosive device given to him by Lester. He returns home and watches the live Weazel News broadcast of the keynote. During the broadcast, Norris reveals the phone, prompting Michael to call him on it, as per Lester's request. Norris answers the call, and the phone detonates next to his head, killing him instantly and cutting the broadcast short. With Lester satisfied, he helps Michael collect information about the contents of a high-end jewelry store , and makes preparations to rob it . During the planning process, Michael insists that his new friend Franklin be involved, believing the latter will find the experience beneficial.
Michael goes over the plan with his crew.
The heist goes smoothly, though during it, Michael throws a traffic cop to the ground and quotes one of Solomon Richards' movies. The debt owed to Martin Madrazo is paid off, with Michael and Franklin recieving a small cut of the takings for themselves. Meanwhile, out in Sandy Shores , Trevor Philips, who has been still alive since the cash deposit heist, watches a news report of the jewel store robbery , during which the traffic cop is interviewed and tells the reporter the quote Michael said, which catches Trevor's attention. Believing that either someone else was pretending to be his old partner-in-crime or that said famous bank robber didn't actually die, he sends his friend Wade to find Michael's whereabouts. Eventually, Wade informs Trevor that a man matching Michael's description was living in Los Santos. Trevor deduces that this man and Michael were the same individual after all and travels to Los Santos to find him.
After several days of laying low from the jewelry store heist, Michael finds marijuana in the fridge and correctly assumes it is Jimmy's. He and Amanda begin to argue, and tensions further flare up by the sudden arrival of Amanda's yoga instructor, Fabien LaRouche , whom Michael promptly insults. Jimmy then arrives to get his weed, causing Michael to taunt him with it. Trevor then unexpectedly walks in, much to everyone's shock and horror. As Trevor inspects Michael and his family, he asks where Tracey is, to which Jimmy breaks the tension by revealing she has gone to audition for the TV show Fame or Shame as a dancer. Realizing that Tracey will embarrass herself in front of the nation due to her "horrible" dancing, Michael and Trevor rush to the Maze Bank Arena , where the audition is. The two find Tracey and watch as she performs a sexually seductive dance while the show's host, Lazlow Jones , begins to join in, angering both Michael and Trevor. The pair give chase to a terrified Lazlow in a hijacked Phantom truck, pursuing him to the Los Santos River , where Lazlow's Dilettante ultimately breaks down. Trevor forces Lazlow to remove his pants and dance for him as he films it on his phone, amusing Michael. In the aftermath, Tracey is even more angry at Michael, which doesn't seem to bother him, further straining his relationship with his daughter.
Michael is contacted by Dave Norton, who knows he was the one who committed the jewelry store robbery and requests that they meet at the Galileo Observatory . Norton explains that Michael's decision to rob the store has spotlighted him in the FIB and that if his superiors read his files and discover his deal with Michael, it could cause serious repercussions for the pair. Michael reluctantly agrees to do tasks for Norton to help keep his job with the FIB, in exchange for the continued coverup of Michael's past life. Michael's first task is to locate Ferdinand Kerimov , a suspected terrorist whom the FIB's rival, the IAA , has declared to be dead. To do so, Norton knocks Michael unconscious to allow him to infiltrate the morgue . Michael regains consciousness during his "autopsy" and incapacitates one of the coroners. After searching the mortuary, Michael discovers Kerimov's identity tag attached to the foot of a different person's body, and calls Norton to let him know. Michael later escapes the morgue and phones Franklin, requesting that they meet. Michael informs him of his past with the FIB and advises Franklin to leave the city for his own safety, but Franklin tells him that he will stay and help, so as to repay Michael for his faith in him.
Franklin , Trevor , and Michael in action.
Steve Haines , a decorated but highly corrupt FIB agent and Norton's superior, meets with Michael and further ropes him into the FIB's bidding. Haines informs him that Kerimov is being held in the downtown IAA Headquarters and that he needs to help extract him, after which Norton explains that he will be working alongside Trevor and Franklin. Michael introduces the latter two to each other before he and Trevor fly to the IAA building in a helicopter . With Trevor piloting and Franklin proving sniper cover from a nearby building , Michael repels down the side of the skyscraper and successfully rescues Kerimov, who is taken into FIB custody.
Michael and Trevor are later summoned to a warehouse at the Port of Los Santos where Michael is briefed that he will accompany Norton to assassinate a suspected Azerbaijani terrorist, Tahir Javan , while Trevor and Haines torture Kerimov for information on Javan's whereabouts and appearance. Kerimov provides information on Javan, who is shot dead by Michael.
Later, as Michael is smoking on the couch and watching a movie, he is confronted by Amanda for smoking inside and his general attitude, starting yet another argument. Fabian arrives and invites Michael to participate in his and Amanda's yoga session, much to her irritation. The session passes relatively smoothly until Fabien performs a sexual pose on Amanda. Angry, Michael lunges at Fabian, who simply sidesteps him, causing Michael to fall into the pool. Angered by her husband's behavior, Amanda leaves with Fabien. Michael goes upstairs and asks Jimmy to hang out with him, wanting to leave the house for a while. They meet a friend of Jimmy's at Burger Shot , who gives Jimmy some cannabis and a drink. On the way home, Jimmy pressures Michael into sipping the drink, which causes him to feel drowsy. Jimmy reveals that he had the drink spiked with ketamine before pushing Michael out of the car, informing him that he's taking it and some of the money from his bank account, and that he is moving out. Michael has hallucinations of being abducted by aliens and falling from the sky before waking up in his underwear a few blocks away from his home. When he gets to the house, he finds a note from Amanda saying that she and the rest of the family are leaving due to his poor behavior.
Trevor later contacts Michael and Franklin to partake in a heist he is planning , which involves stealing unknown cargo from a mercenary group called Merryweather Security . The heist goes as planned, and Trevor finds that he has stolen a superweapon. Shortly after, Lester arrives and reveals that the weapon is highly dangerous, especially in the hands of someone like Trevor, and explains to him that if it isn't returned, they will all be relentlessly hunted down. Michael and Franklin agree, and Trevor, while furious that he cannot keep the loot, reluctantly allows it to be put back.
Michael meeting Devin in person.
After the heist, Michael, along with Franklin and Trevor, are called upon by Haines and Norton. This time, they must rob an armored truck filled with funds that the IAA has received from drug sales. Unable to get any assistance from the corrupt agents, Michael decides they will approach the job with a "classic blitz play". Despite being faced with some mild LSPD and NOOSE resistance, the heist is executed smoothly. Michael then proceeds to deliver the funds to billionaire Devin Weston , who offers him a partnership with his idol, movie producer Solomon Richards . To get this partnership, however, he has to participate in one of several robberies that involve stealing several rare cars for Weston, alongside Trevor and Franklin.
Michael eagerly agrees and fulfills his end of the bargain. Thrilled, he eventually meets Richards, who hires him as an assistant. Richards explains that while filming his latest movie, Meltdown , actor Milton McIlroy and his agent, Ancelotti Crime Family made man Rocco Pelosi , demanded that they renegotiate McIlroy's deal, which Richards refused, prompting the two to convince director Anton Beaudelaire to cease production until their demands are met. Michael confronts Rocco and assaults him before climbing into a helicopter containing McIlroy and Beaudelaire, where he then performs dangerous maneuvers with it to scare the two into submission. This gets Michael on Richards' good side, and he is promised the role of associate producer for the upcoming film if he continues his good work.
Martin Madrazo later summons Michael and Trevor to his ranch , offering them a job. The crime boss, who now sees Michael as a friend, explains that his cousin is planning to fly out to Liberty City to testify against him. He asks Michael and Trevor to shoot down the private jet carrying him and recover some sensitive documents onboard. Michael does his part by bringing it down with a remote sniper inside a van , while Trevor makes it to the crash site and recovers the files, before returning to Madrazo to give them to him.
Trevor surprises Michael with a kidnapping.
After destroying the van, Michael finds out, to his horror, that Madrazo refused to pay the pair, causing Trevor to attack him and kidnap Madrazo's wife, Patricia , after he witnessed her husband mistreating her. Knowing what Madrazo might do to them if he catches them, Michael agrees to hide in Sandy Shores with Trevor in his trailer , alongside Patricia. Later on, Haines and Norton summon Michael, Franklin, and Trevor for another mission against the IAA. This time, the two agents plot to raid the Humane Labs and Research to steal a dangerous neurotoxin they claim the agency is developing there. To carry out this operation, the trio must secure funds to purchase a Cargobob and other required equipment for the heist. Ultimately, they, along with Lester, settle on robbing the Blaine County Savings Bank in Paleto Bay , as it, according to Trevor, contains millions of dollars deposited there by Blaine County's corrupt law enforcement department who extort money from the local cannabis farms and meth labs.
While planning the robbery , Trevor receive a call from Franklin, where they discover he is tailing the remaining O'Neil brothers – inbred, redneck meth dealers who are vengeful due to an earlier attack by Trevor on their ranch that resulted in the murders of most of the O'Neil family and the destruction of their cookhouse. While Michael and Trevor fly to Franklin's location, the O'Neils crash in the forest. Using a rifle fitted with a thermal scope , Michael shoots two of the brothers, while Franklin locates and kills the final O'Neil with the help of Lamar's dog, Chop .
Using stolen military body armor and machine guns , Trevor, Michael, Franklin, and a gunman successfully rob the Paleto Bay bank , taking a small cut each and giving the largest profit to Haines and Norton so they can purchase the equipment for the Humane Labs robbery , much to the team's irritation. While awaiting this operation, Michael and Trevor carry out another job, raiding a Merryweather courier train that carries gold and priceless artifacts so that they can pay off Martin Madrazo. Trevor derails the train over a bridge in Raton Canyon , after which Michael dives into the river below to retrieve the merchandise, taking an ancient Aztec fertility statue that Madrazo would value. Trevor is dissatisfied with Michael's choice of loot, though he calms down when Michael proposes that, once they get the FIB off their cases, they can carry out a heist they've dreamed about doing for years - stealing millions of dollars worth of gold bullion from the Union Depository . Initially, Trevor states that it can't be done, verging suicidal almost, but mutually accepts when Michael challenges him on that being a line he's afraid to cross.
Trevor confronts Michael about Brad, one last time.
When Michael, Trevor, and Franklin meet with Haines and Norton for the Humane Labs robbery, Haines verbally berates them for not bringing in three more men for the operation - a fact they were left in the dark about when he forgot to let them know. With no other choice, Haines and Norton are forced to join Michael in extracting the neurotoxin, while Trevor and Franklin are on vehicle detail. They successfully retrieve the neurotoxin, but when the Cargobob takes too long to escape, Haines shoots himself in the leg to pass as a double agent and distract the oncoming IAA personnel while Michael and Norton to escape.
After safely returning to Los Santos with Madrazo being taken care of, Michael receives an unexpected visit from Trevor at his house, who pitches him with the idea of busting Brad out of jail. Michael's reluctance to go ahead with the plan leads to a debate, during which Trevor finally realizes that Brad is, in fact, dead and buried at Michael's supposed grave in North Yankton. He hastily travels to Ludendorff with Michael in pursuit, where he confirms his suspicions. After a standoff at the grave, they are attacked by Triad henchmen on orders of leader Wei Cheng , who wanted to meet with Trevor for his role in wiping out the O'Neil brothers, who the Triads were planning to work with. The Triads incorrectly assumed that Michael and Trevor were gay lovers while surveying them during their exile to Sandy Shores. Trevor flees, leaving Michael to fend off the henchmen, causing him to be captured and brought back to Los Santos, where he is held within a slaughterhouse . Cheng later calls Trevor and reveals that they will kill Michael unless Trevor agrees to meet with him. Angry at Michael for his betrayal, Trevor sarcastically tells Cheng that he "loves [Michael] dearly" and hangs up the phone, refusing to accept the demands.
When Cheng realizes that Trevor won't meet him, he orders that Michael be put into one of the slaughterhouse's meat grinders. With the help of Lester, Michael is rescued by Franklin, who afterwards presses him about what happened in Ludendorff. Michael opens up about his past decision to betray Trevor and defends that he had to do it for his family. He attempts to keep Franklin from prying further by reminding him of Weston's car job, but Franklin informs him that he, Trevor, and his friend Lamar had already completed it, only for Weston to stiff them on the payment . Confused, Michael assures him that he will speak with Weston the next time he heads to the studio.
Michael returns to the movie studio to resume work with Solomon. After witnessing Pelosi and his associate Gianni assault Solomon, Michael chases the two and ends up killing both of them. In return, Solomon keeps his word and credits Michael as an associate producer in his upcoming film, much to Michael's overwhelming joy. As he exits the studio, he leaves a voicemail message on Amanda's phone to convince her that he is finally doing something good with his life.
Michael and Dave defend themselves from Steve and Andreas .
Michael and Franklin are called up once again by Haines for one more job: to break into the FIB Headquarters and remove incriminating evidence against Haines, as his ploy as a double agent caused Haines' superiors to start looking into his recent activities. This goes according to plan, except that while deleting the files on Steve, Michael also deletes the files the FIB had on himself, removing Steve's leverage over him. When Michael meets Haines, Norton, and fellow FIB agent Andreas Sanchez at the Kortz Center for debriefing, Haines attempts to arrest him. However, this drastically turns into a Mexican standoff when the men all pull guns on each other. The situation further escalates with the arrival of an IAA team led by the U.L. Paper Contact , a rogue FIB team working alongside Sanchez, and a Merryweather team. Haines is shot in the leg by an FIB operative, but manages to escape, killing Sanchez in the process. Norton and Michael proceed to fight their way through the Merryweather mercenaries, FIB, and IAA agents and escape with the help of Trevor. Despite not forgiving Michael, he promises not to kill him if they succeed in their upcoming Union Depository robbery. Later they help Franklin deal with an incident where his friend Lamar is kidnapped by a rival gang .
Having had enough of being alone, Michael, with the help of Jimmy, finally seeks out and reunites his family. With them back in the house and his involvement in Solomon Richards' upcoming film, things start to look positive for him until Devin Weston announces his intentions to exploit the movie studio's insurance policy by destroying the completed film so he can claim the insurance money, ultimately closing the studio which he will promptly buy and demolish to build condos on the site. Infuriated upon learning of Weston's intentions, Michael chases the former's lawyer to the airport to try and retrieve the film's master copy. During the chase, she is accidentally killed after being sucked into a jet engine. Michael recovers the film, and Solomon arranges a premiere so that it cannot be tampered with further.
On the other hand, Michael goes to a therapy session with Dr. Friedlander again, where he learns, to his fury, that his psychiatrist has been using details from their sessions to make himself famous without his knowledge. Sensing Michael's anger, Friedlander flees, though later sends an apology email which Michael rebukes. [ 12 ]
Michael annoyed with Devin's appearance at the premiere.
At the premiere for Meltdown , Weston, furious over his lawyer's death, unexpectedly appears and cryptically reveals his plans to kill Michael's family in revenge for his lawyer's death. Michael rushes home to find Merryweather operatives assaulting his house. He kills the intruders and protects his family from oncoming mercenaries until the coast is clear. Afterwards, his family temporarily leaves again, this time upon Michael's request, for their own protection. The next morning, Michael calls Lester from the Del Perro Pier and angrily informs him about Merryweather's attack. Despite this incident, Michael is still confident in performing their heist on the Union Depository. The heist is pulled off successfully, as Michael, Franklin, Trevor, Lester, and their crew manage to steal over $200 million worth of gold bullion.
Following the heist, both Steve Haines and Devin Weston visit Franklin. Haines wants Franklin to kill Trevor due to his unpredictable nature, while Weston asks that Franklin kill Michael instead, because Weston still wants revenge on him. Franklin can either choose one of these options or team up with Michael and Trevor one last time and, with the help of Lester and Lamar, take down their remaining enemies . Ultimately, Franklin chooses the latter.
Lester falsely leaks to Haines and Weston that the stolen gold is being melted down at a local foundry , to bait them into sending their men with the intention that they would be wiped out, leaving the two with nothing to throw back. As Lester predicted, Haines sends FIB teams while Weston sends Merryweather operatives, who are all promptly ambushed by Michael, Trevor, Franklin, and Lamar. Once all of the mercenaries and agents are taken out, Michael has Trevor and Franklin kill Steve Haines and Wei Cheng, respectively. Meanwhile, he kills a gang member rival to Franklin named Stretch , so as not to implicate Franklin as a potential suspect. Afterwards, Michael meets Franklin and Trevor, the latter having kidnapped Weston, locked him in the trunk of his car, and brought him to a cliff overlooking the Pacific Ocean within the Chiliad Mountain State Wilderness . After taunting Weston about their apparent victory, the trio push the car off the cliff, sending it into the ocean where it promptly explodes, killing Weston. After Michael makes peace with Trevor, all three men decide to end their lives of crime, but still remain friends.
Later, Michael receives an email from Don Percival , the CEO of Merryweather, thanking him for taking out Devin, as he was able to buy back Devin's company shares at a reduced price. He tells Michael that no reply is necessary and that he should not interfere with his business ventures again.
Franklin calls Michael, informing him of his intent to kill Trevor. While Michael says this sounds like something Franklin should handle himself, he agrees to help if he can. Franklin pulls a gun on Trevor at the Murrieta Oilfields , who flees, resulting in a car chase between the two, during which Franklin again calls Michael for help. He arrives in a Premier and t-bones Trevor's truck, causing him to crash into a gas tanker and soaking him in gasoline. As Trevor crawls out of his vehicle, he curses Michael and Franklin for betraying him, as they were two of his closest friends and some of the very few people he trusted. One of the two shoots the gas, igniting it and incinerating Trevor. As they walk away, Michael and Franklin reflect on Trevor's psychotic nature. They split up and are about to leave before Franklin sarcastically remarks on the event as an "illuminating experience", which Michael counters by telling him to survive and that everything else is "bullshit".
Afterward, Michael and Franklin frequently reassure each other and those who ask that they made the right choice and chose the necessary option due to Trevor's dangerous nature. Michael and Franklin are no longer able to hang out, as if they meet in person Michael will decide that he needs time away. Michael receives a call from Jimmy, asking what happened to Trevor, to which Michael implies that he was involved in his death, upsetting Jimmy, who can also no longer hang out with him. Michael later receives an email from Trevor's friend Ron Jakowski , who is angry at Michael for killing him and ruining the business they grew together. Michael considers the email "spam" and tells Ron not to contact him again. Additionally, Trevor's cut from the Union Depository heist is split between Michael and Franklin.
Franklin calls Michael and asks to meet in a secluded location in the desert to talk, which Michael obliges. Shortly after Michael arrives, he receives a call from Amanda, who informs him that Tracey has been accepted into college. After Michael finishes the call, the duo reflect on their partnership. However, Michael realizes that Franklin led him out to the desert to kill him, and escapes in his car with Franklin following close behind, eventually ending up at the Palmer-Taylor Power Station . Franklin chases Michael onto one of the chimney walkways and pushes Michael over the rail after a minor scuffle. Before he can fall, however, Franklin grabs Michael's arm, leaving him hanging precariously over the side. Franklin either drops him or has second thoughts and attempts to save him. If the latter is chosen, he will try to pull Michael up, only for him to headbutt Franklin, causing him to let go and drop Michael to his death.
Afterward, Trevor, Amanda, and Jimmy deduce that Franklin is responsible for Michael's death and will no longer speak to him. Furthermore, Michael's family puts their house up for sale and receives his Union Depository cut.
As of 2021 , Michael still works at Richards Majestic Studios. While chasing two Caddies that happen to drive through the studio complex, Franklin will remark to his associate that he hopes Michael isn't working that day.
Famous Vinewood film producer Michael De Santa in his late 50s/early 60s.
By 2025 , Michael is still happily married to Amanda while their children have moved out, leaving Michael and Amanda as "empty nesters" with too much time on their hands. Michael also retains the status of a famous Vinewood film producer he gained after the release of Meltdown . He is currently the owner of film production company De Santa , which is responsible for the production of several movies, including Drive Fast, Die Slow . De Santa film productions have gained immense popularity in Vinewood, with artists such as Zelma Bosch attempting to get their pieces of art into Michael's films as props.
In late 2025, Amanda decides to visit a new neighbor, the GTA Online Protagonist , who has recently moved into a Prix Luxury mansion close to the De Santa Residence. Michael accompanies Amanda to greet their neighbor and, during the visit, briefly talks in private with the protagonist, acknowledging that they have many mutual contacts and recognizing several of their past achievements, such as the hit on The Diamond Casino & Resort . The house tour is briefly interrupted by Mr. Faber , who expresses interest in working with Michael and the protagonist, though Michael is reluctant and discreetly warns the protagonist to be wary of Faber. Michael eventually hands the protagonist his business card, asking to stay in touch, and leaves with Amanda to let the player settle into their new home.
After the protagonist assists Avi Schwartzman in bringing down the FIB-linked KnoWay company, the company retaliates by sending heavily armed mercenaries to invade their mansion. Michael sees the assault in progress and arrives to help, saving the owner from capture and helping them fend off the attack. Michael and the protagonist then go celebrate with a bottle of champagne as the former fondly remarks that "he's still got it". After asking the protagonist not to tell Amanda of his involvement if they see her, Michael calls his wife to tell her he will arrive home shortly and bids the player farewell, promising to see them around.
Characters murdered by Michael De Santa in the storyline of Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Characters optionally murdered by Michael De Santa, depending on the player's choice.
Characters optionally murdered by Michael De Santa during the Strangers and Freaks missions, depending on the player's choice.
Characters optionally murdered by Michael De Santa in Grand Theft Auto V , although not intended to be killed. These characters are still alive regardless of the player's choice, and some physically appear in the post-2013 events of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Michael is a Caucasian male, aged either 45 or 48, with black hair and light green eyes. Michael is of heavy build and is 6' 2" (1.88 m) tall and weighs 210 lbs (95 kg). [ 13 ]
Medical examiners in Dead Man Walking describe Michael as overweight, with fat deposits on his abdomen suggesting a "fondness" for Bleeder Burgers, leading them to suspect his "death" as a result of coronary failure. They and Trevor in Derailed have noted his poor hygiene due to his drinking and smoking cigarettes, giving him discolored teeth and fingers, with the examiners estimating he smoked approximately a pack of cigarettes a day with cigars. The medical examiners also noticed broken capillaries around his nose to indicate his alcoholism and deduced he had an unhealthy liver.
In official artwork, he is shown to have blue eyes and dark brown hair. His default appearance is a cleft chin with a Lexington hairstyle and short stubble around his face. Michael's physique is thicker and more heavily built than the likes of Trevor and Franklin, having burly, veiny arms and legs. This most certainly comes from his time as a quarterback and his stint in prison. Although Michael isn't obese or out of shape, many people around him will occasionally make fun of his rather large midsection, such as Jimmy and Trevor or even Michael himself at many times. Michael's movement is also much slower than Franklin and Trevor's, as he's much older. On top of that, his ten-year retirement from crime means he is not as physically active as the other two. During Pack Man , Trevor tells Lamar that when he met Michael, he was "kinda fat, but strong underneath".
Michael's initial wardrobe sets him with a gray two-piece suit without a tie and casual attires like beach shorts with sandals or polo shirts. His gray suit is his default outfit used in most of his artwork and concept art. He shows approval as he's trying out outfits at Ponsonby's, as opposed to the clear disdain of buying items from Suburban or Binco. His Prologue appearance has him with shorter, shaven hair. It is between his default Lexington and The Wood hairstyle, somewhat similar to the Cesar haircut of CJ . His facial features are still the same.
Michael's beta appearance can be seen in trailers one and two, where he is seen with green eyes and an older look. This was changed later in the character's development to make him look like he wasn't too old to perform some of his actions during gameplay.
By the events of A Safehouse in the Hills, set in 2025 , he looks significantly older, with visible wrinkles and greying hair, which is essentially a slightly receded version of the Lexington style from GTA V . His black suit is also reused from the game. He seems more physically active than he was in GTA V , in which many characters make comments on his weight. This is shown in how he can still take on dozens of KnoWay mercenaries, and mentions he still frequently plays tennis .
Michael and his friends.
Michael is muddled, even confused, by his "good and evil" personalities. He spends an unusual amount of time in his head, where he can comfortably think or reminisce about certain things or aspects that give him a brief moment of nostalgia for his glory days. Nevertheless, it also constrains him into a world of wistfulness and bewilderment as he ponders why things aren't going in the direction he planned. Michael is obsessed with materialistic appearance and images, so he dreams of living out his "Vinewood Dream" with his family. He claims to Franklin that he has lived a repeated pattern of " Chase things, get em', hate em'. "
Michael holds a deep-seated amount of self-hatred due to him wanting to live a false lifestyle rather than coming to the conclusion that his troubling mistakes have brought a great deal of misfortune upon himself, his family, and old friends and associates (his agreement with the FIB is a prime example). The self-hatred gives him an exceptionally short temper that he does not know how to control, which fills him with rage and causes him to not think at times. One example is when he caught Amanda having an affair with her tennis coach, Kyle Chavis. He chases Kyle to a mansion and pulls it down a hillside, believing it belonged to him, despite Chavis stating that it was far too expensive for him to own on his tennis coach salary.
Sarcasm is something that Michael firmly grasps because of his self-hatred, as he does not know how to respond to his family or friends properly at times without it. He indicates this in the mission Paleto Score Setup , where he proclaims that sarcasm is one of the only things he has left in this world that cannot be taken away from him.
Michael is a highly egotistical and narcissistic man. He only shows concern about the issues he is being pulled through instead of the situations he constantly puts his family or friends through. He will often get unfairly defensive when someone rightfully criticizes him. A case in point of this wrongdoing is shown in one of his many heated arguments with his wife, Amanda. At the start of the mission Fame or Shame , she castigates him for not giving her any support in raising their children and only wanting to cater to himself by Getting drunk, or you're staring miserably at the clouds, or you're out there doing God only knows what . He responds with the fact that he, Pulled you out of a midwestern trailer park, got you a big mansion in Rockford Hills , and that the only thing she'll have to worry about is What part of your body you want to have chopped off or sucked out again . Another instance is in the same mission, where Trevor chides him for letting Tracey humiliate herself on public television the way she did and labeling it as Poor parenting. Michael responds defensively, Yeah, thanks for the fucking feedback. It means a lot coming from you. The same goes for Lester and Franklin.
During Predator , Trevor criticizes Michael for instantly thinking about himself, claiming it is "typical" of him. During The Paleto Score , Michael argues with Trevor over the latter's kidnapping of Patricia Madrazo , resulting in their exile in Sandy Shores to avoid the wrath of her husband, Martin. Michael complains that Trevor is not making his situation any easier, and Trevor again criticizes Michael for only thinking about himself. At the beginning of The Bureau Raid (Fire Crew entry), when Lester is explaining the plan to Michael, Michael describes it as "a bit idiotic". Lester explains that he tried his best and that Michael chose this method. He then claims that Trevor "has a point" about Michael "whining too much", to which Michael responds by giving Lester the finger . At the beginning of the Roof Entry setup for the same mission, Lester continuously reproaches Michael for his constant bickering about the former, managing to still stay calm and collected as they prepare to pull off a dangerous raid on one of the most secure buildings in the country. Michael gets so annoyed that he refuses to return Lester's cane to him unless he retracts everything he stated. Lester does so reluctantly. When Michael tries to pull the same bickering move on Franklin, the latter fires back at him with irritation, leaving Michael apologizing for not noticing how self-absorbed he's been.
Another of Michael's negative traits is his hypocrisy. He frequently scolds the people around him for their mistakes and bad habits but refuses to acknowledge his own. At the start of the mission "Daddy's Little Girl", he criticizes Jimmy for slouching all day in front of the TV, playing video games, and eating profusely, despite the fact he does almost the exact same thing. With Tracey, he denies her the opportunity to become famous by intervening against her wishes while actively currying favor with Solomon Richards to be a renowned movie producer by working with unsavory individuals. With Amanda, he claims she is "wasteful" with his money even though she notices that Michael's day trading is hurting the family finances during "The Good Husband" on their way home. He does the same thing towards Trevor, openly judging his will to maim, kill, and steal with ease and pleasure while not showing any signs of remorse, even though Michael himself displays little to no remorse for the various people he kills. At the same time, he actively provokes trouble with Simeon , Blake , Lazlow and Madrazo over petty issues his family has.
During The Paleto Score , Michael complains to Trevor that he misses his family. Trevor angrily retorts that Michael never paid attention to them and only misses them now that they've left him. Although he openly claims to his therapist that he does the same thing, he hides it underneath multiple lies, a few of them being that he does not enjoy the "thrill of the action" or that he does not hold a "plain yet wilfully strong addiction to chaos".
Another big trait of Michael is that despite being extremely intelligent, he is also very impulsive as he will sometimes act before thinking which is pointed out by Martin in Marriage Counseling when he pulls Martins house down, not realising that a tennis coach wouldn’t have been able to afford a house like that and Devin in Legal Trouble when Michael chases Molly down not even thinking about the possible consequences.
The see-through hypocrisy can simultaneously show how easily and massively dishonest he is. Regardless of whether it is himself, his family, or friends, Michael displays difficulty when trying to convey the truth. For instance, whenever Trevor brings up a subject involving Brad, Michael will immediately yet vaguely change the topic. Once Trevor realizes that Brad is dead, Michael continues to lie about his grave being empty instead of it actually containing Brad's corpse. Even after Brad's corpse is exhumed, Michael unwittingly lies about his death instead of coming out with the truth about the staged robbery nine years ago, which causes Trevor to grow irritated and angry. At the end of the mission Surveying the Score , Franklin questions Michael's past relationship with Trevor to the point where Michael has to steadily ask him to stop in hopes of covering his tracks and not letting Franklin catch wind of his deal with the FIB nine years ago and quite possibly letting Trevor know in the process.
His judgment calls will also cause negative repercussions. After being "green lit" by Martin Madrazo, he brushes it off, telling Franklin that he's known worse human beings. He then begins to take it back after receiving an astringent blow to his midsection with a baseball bat delivered by Madrazo himself. He even declares Martin a terrifying psychopath. With Devin Weston, he wanted no part in Weston's plans to highjack several high-end vehicles, that is, until Weston promised to arrange a meeting with Michael's idol, Solomon Richards. After this, he keeps Devin in a positive mood to ensure that none of his business ventures are ruined, even if that means making Franklin work for Devin continuously without payment.
Despite all the negatives, Michael does possess a good side to his personality. He is a very considerate individual, as he pays Franklin for doing what he is forced to do: driving through the front of his boss' business, even though the latter broke into Michael's mansion. Despite all the problems he has in his family, he dearly loves them. Still, he is frequently angered by Tracey's social life, Jimmy being jobless, lazy, and a video game addict and Amanda spending most of his money and cheating on him. However, Michael's family issues slowly started to dissolve after their reunion.
It should also be noted that it is very clear that Michael cares for his friends more than he shows. If Franklin chooses to kill Trevor in the end, Michael will stop hanging out with Franklin for a while because he is devastated by Trevor's death. However, he later apologizes to Franklin and reassures him they are still friends. If the player chooses to kill Michael, his extremely aggressive behavior towards Franklin shows that he loved him as a friend and can't believe Franklin did not feel the same.
Being the opposite of Trevor, Michael is thorough and rational regarding crime. This makes others leave him to plan and lead robberies and missions, as he is usually the one to devise a plan for a heist alongside Lester. He also shows consideration for people caught up in robberies. An example is that if you choose to pose as guards for the Union Depository heist , Michael will give the guard he blackmailed a bar of gold to help them get past security.
Michael will also always put his family's safety above anything else, going as far as to make a moral compromise with the FIB to ensure his family is not in danger. When Trevor first comes back to find Michael in his house, Michael immediately puts himself in front of Jimmy, not knowing what Trevor is going to do. When Devin Weston sent Merryweather to Michael's house to kill his family, Michael instantly abandoned his movie premiere to engage the hostile forces, rescue his family, and subsequently move them to a new location. Michael's care about his family is finally reciprocated by Amanda towards the end of the game, at which time she makes him promise not to get killed.
Towards the end of the game, Michael starts to accept his borderline-sociopath personality, stating in the final cutscene of the Deathwish ending that he still hates himself, but "at least he knows the words for it". Michael has also started to work on his anger issues when his family comes back and can be seen expressing a great amount of regret for the decisions he has made, becoming more truthful and open. This is evident when he hangs out with Franklin; he expresses great distaste for his decision to betray Trevor with the help of Dave to secure a future for himself, seeing as the decision itself was "hollow" and only created more problems as well as causing much more resentment for not only for himself but the people around him as well.
While living in North Yankton, Michael had a stronger bond with his loved ones, and they could get along with each other. But after relocating to Los Santos, Michael's obsession with living the "Vinewood Dream", along with his depression about having to abandon his criminal lifestyle and betraying his criminal accomplices, made him neglect and alienate his family. At the same time, he became egocentric, selfish, and conceited. Early in the storyline, Michael is constantly seen fussing, bickering, and arguing with his family until the mission Did Somebody Say Yoga? , where they abandon him in search of a more peaceful living. After Michael reunites with his family in the mission Reuniting the Family, Michael will be seen bonding with them much more often than before, as they all promise to fix their relationship before things become disastrous. While hanging out with Amanda, Michael admits that he thought he lost his family for good once they left him, making him eager to change his ways.
Michael and Amanda arguing.
Amanda De Santa - Amanda's relationship with Michael began in a strip club where she was a stripper. The two fell in love, had two children, and eventually married. Amanda devoted so much to Michael that she even left everything she had in North Yankton to move to Los Santos and their children to begin their lives away from Michael's past crimes. During the events of the game, Amanda can barely tolerate him anymore due to his arrogant and hypocritical personality and verbally abusive behavior towards her. After catching Michael in bed with another stripper, Amanda began to have affairs with multiple men, including her tennis coach, which further strained their marriage, with Michael implied to be reciprocating this infidelity by calling up hookers at motels and allowing her to have affairs on the condition of not having sex with other men in his home. Amanda finally hits her breaking point when Fabien does a sexual pose on her, which angers Michael, who then attempts to punch Fabien. Fabien reacts by sidestepping and makes Michael land in the swimming pool. Amanda then berates Michael for his attempted action, calling him "a pathetic psychopath", and leaves him with Tracey while Jimmy moves out on his own (according to him).
Michael later suffers from depression after his wife and kids leave him. However, Jimmy reveals to Franklin that Amanda very much misses Michael, frequently asking about him and even telling Franklin at one point to let her know if he's doing well. It turns out that Amanda and their kids were even more miserable living with Fabien than with Michael. After Jimmy reveals that Fabien is starting to bore Amanda and is only interested in the sexual aspect of the relationship and being a mooch, he tells Michael about the couple's hangout spot. Amanda was then seen hanging out with Fabien at a local Bean Machine coffee shop, getting berated by Fabien and later being told to pay for a custom-made unitard. Michael steps in angrily in defense of Amanda, and she allows Michael to hit him in the face with a laptop. Michael then agrees to arrange a therapy session with Dr. Friedlander, bringing Jimmy and Tracey along. During the session, Michael and Amanda had a screaming match in front of their kids (during which he threatened to kill Amanda if she ever had him put in jail) to clear up the situation that would ultimately keep their marriage in ruins. Amanda and the kids move back in with Michael afterward, and their feelings are rekindled by the end of the story, brought closer together by various events. Certain random switch-ups with Michael involving Amanda will also be altered. For example, whereas in the past, when dropping Amanda off at a mall or something of the sort, they would be rude to each other, they now kindly bid each other goodbye. Another example would be Michael getting out of bed after a sexual night with Amanda, to which she'll even smack him on his buttocks as he leaves the room. He also expresses generosity afterward, whereas before, he was stingy with his money.
Michael and Jimmy in happier times.
Jimmy De Santa - Jimmy's relationship with his father is also rocky; even though Michael is far from perfect, he loves his son but does not know how to display it. His son is not very moral either, as he often takes drugs and attempts to sell his father's boat without him knowing, ending with the boat being stolen. They have a confused and strained relationship with each other. Michael tries to improve their relationship by spending time with his son, but to no avail, as he lacks any form of respect for his father. At one point, he even drugs Michael, takes money from his bank account, and steals his car. However, Jimmy soon regrets his actions and visits his father, saying he does love him and promises to get a job and not be a lazy, pot-smoking, video game addict, which can be seen in-game. His relationship with his father seems to improve after the mission Reuniting the Family, as shown in the cutscenes when switching characters to Michael. Examples of this are both arriving home from a bicycle ride or playing video games in Jimmy's room, with Michael always losing.
Michael taking Tracey away from the yacht.
Tracey De Santa - Michael's relationship with his daughter is also considered frail. Despite this, Michael does love Tracey but is often angry at her loose behavior and social life, such as her hanging out with drug dealers and porn stars, and embarrasses her by interrupting her audition for " Fame or Shame " by chasing Lazlow out of the building for performing a sexual pose on her . Once Tracey leaves her father, she gives him a phone call, claiming that he needs help. Like Jimmy, however, Tracey continues to grow tiresome of Fabien throughout the storyline. She'll even email Michael once to explain that she misses him. After Michael's family returns home, Tracey seems to develop a better relationship with her father, which starts improving once Michael humiliates Lazlow in the tattoo parlor and demands that Lazlow put Tracey on "Fame or Shame" by doing whatever she wants in the show. Michael even helps Tracey deal with a creepy old man stalking her. However, Tracey still continues trying to be a celebrity, but somewhere after the story ends, she believes that people need to stop sending her sex toys because she doesn't do that on camera.
Michael has had a rather difficult time making friends. The friends that he surrounded himself with in his previous life were, in his words, not the type to associate with since they either ended up missing or dead. Even after becoming semi-retired, he still doesn't have many friends. This is mostly caused by his antisocial personality, which keeps him inside his head.
Trevor Philips - Trevor's relationship with Michael started around the late 1980s, over twenty years prior to the game's events, when he and Trevor were escorting cargo across the border. Trevor claims that Michael's victim came after him, so Trevor shot a flare into the other man's head and dumped the body using his plane (which Trevor claimed "Never smelled the same again."), and as soon as they left the plane, they both threw up and became friends. [ 14 ] [ 15 ] Michael convinced Trevor to join him to commit further robberies, seeing as they worked well as a team. Thus, they started a long partnership. While Trevor viewed Michael as a friend and possibly a spiritual brother who could understand him and his psychotic ways, Michael viewed Trevor as an insane liability with special uses. Their alleged companionship was okay until Michael met his future wife, Amanda, causing their friendship to strain since Trevor and Amanda didn't see eye to eye. After the botched North Yankton heist, Michael and Trevor assumed one another to be dead. Following Michael's relapse into crime, Trevor discovers that he is alive and concludes that he faked his death. While viewing Michael as a friend, Trevor starts to treat him with derision as he feels betrayed by Michael, but both still get on well enough. Their friendship is even further strained when Trevor begins to piece together the truth about Michael's survival and Brad's death, leading to a standoff between the two. From this point on, Trevor vowed to kill Michael but still needed the man alive so they could pull off one last job together. Michael sees in Trevor everything he despises about himself, so he'd try to pin everything on him or think of betraying him again. This is highlighted during the mission The Big Score . As Michael and his crew are escaping from the cops, he'd say things like, "If we are caught, it's all Trevor's idea".
In Something Sensible , Trevor won't become friends with Michael again, as he is involved in his death alongside Franklin. He will state, "I thought I was with one Judas! I'm surrounded by them". If Franklin doesn't kill Trevor, then Michael will shoot him instead. He will tell Franklin weeks later that he regrets his actions and doesn't want to know him anymore. In The Time's Come , Trevor is not directly involved, but works out that Franklin is responsible for Michael's death. It seems that Trevor wanted to forgive Michael, but didn't have a chance to apologize. He will call Franklin a "Judas", a "backstabber" and a traitor. In The Third Way , Michael and Trevor have one last standoff before Franklin explains that both men have two options: kill each other right now or work together to kill Devin Weston, Steve Haines and the rest of their enemies. Trevor ends up picking the second choice, with the outcome being successful. As the incident ends, Michael and Trevor finally manage to rekindle their friendship, with Trevor considering Michael a friend, albeit one that he hates, which Michael accepts. After this, while hanging out with each other, Michael offers Trevor a part of his share of The Big Score (which Trevor rejects) and apologizes again; this time, Trevor accepts the apology. The next time they hang out, Trevor will apologize to Michael, and he admits he shouldn't have reacted the way he did.
Franklin Clinton - Franklin meets Michael after stealing a car from the latter's house. Michael then has Franklin take him to whoever tasked Franklin with stealing his son's car. From the start, Franklin was impressed with Michael's professional criminality, and after his firing from Premium Deluxe Motorsport , he sought out Michael for possible work. After Franklin saves Jimmy, Michael sees much potential in the young man. Following Franklin's help with the jewelry store heist, Michael refers to Franklin as a true friend and the "son I always wanted". Franklin, in turn, seems to respect Michael, is grateful for improving his life, and is loyal to him. He even helps Michael out with his government-related issues. After meeting Trevor, Franklin starts to see many arguments between the two rather than siding with one of them. Franklin tries to calm them down, hoping it won't escalate into something more violent and unnecessary. Franklin also notices Michael's personality and sometimes confronts him about it. If the player chooses to kill Michael , Franklin can be shown to deeply regret his decision, being unable to face his family or Trevor. If the player chooses to kill Trevor , they remain friends, although their friendship is greatly strained, and if they cross paths on the street, Michael will cut all ties with Franklin. If the player chooses the Deathwish ending , when Michael and Franklin are hanging out, they'll talk about how they can't believe they pulled off the Union Depository heist and that Franklin is extremely grateful to Michael for the experience. Also, in an email, Michael will tell Franklin that "he's a friend for life".
Lester Crest - Lester first met Michael at an unknown point in time, years before the events of the game, and seems to have been the mastermind behind many of his past robberies. The two ceased contact when Michael made his deal with Dave Norton to fake his death and start a new life, and Michael made sure never to mention Lester's name to anyone, allowing Lester to remain hidden from the authorities. Despite this, Michael considers that he was never much of a friend to Lester, and decides to make up for it when the two reunite during the events of the game. He can often be seen sticking up for Lester when he can't defend himself from much stronger people, such as Trevor. However, that won't stop Michael from bullying Lester if he criticizes the former for his hypocrisy.
Dave Norton - Years before the events of the game, Michael arranged a deal for him to hand over Trevor and Brad to the FIB by faking his death so that Dave would gain fame and respect for supposedly "killing" Michael during the North Yankton heist. After the event, Dave managed to keep his promise by having Michael and his family move to a luxurious mansion in Rockford Hills, Los Santos. Michael would also pay Dave hush money monthly to keep their business deal a secret. Their relationship was fine until Michael performed a heist at the Vangelico Jewelry Store. Michael would then perform several jobs for Dave and his boss, Steve Haines. Dave will admit that even though he was a bank robber, he always did "like" Michael. They would occasionally defend each other in hostile situations, like what was shown in the mission The Wrap Up, when he threatened Steve with a gun to prevent him from arresting Michael. In the "Deathwish" ending, Dave calls Michael and tells him that he replaced Haines in his TV show, and then thanks Michael for doing jobs for him before saying farewell, with the two parting on good terms. However, in the case that Michael aids Franklin in killing Trevor, Dave can no longer maintain ties with Michael as he is kept under strict surveillance and eventually dishonorably discharged by Haines.
Solomon Richards - Solomon and Michael are introduced to each other through Devin Weston. Michael is a big fan of the film producer and views him as his idol, even doubting at first that Devin could arrange their meeting. The two get along well. Solomon often recites a quote from one of his movies, and Michael easily names which one. He accepts Michael's assistance in the production of the film Meltdown and goes on to name him the associate producer. This offers more meaning and joy to Michael's life, and if he were to call Solomon after the mission Meltdown, he'll declare that working with the film producer was ultimately the best thing that could ever happen to him.
GTA Online Protagonist - The Online Protagonist is Michael's new neighbor as of 2025 and maintains a friendly relationship with him. The two first meet when Michael and Amanda drop by for a housewarming visit at the Protagonist's new mansion , during which Michael pulls the Protagonist aside and reveals that he knows of their exploits on account of their 'mutual friends'. Impressed by some of the Protagonist's achievements, Michael decides to stay in touch with them and even gives them advice about handling their association with Mr. Faber . Their friendship is later solidified when Michael comes to the Protagonist's aid after seeing their home under attack by KnoWay Mercenaries , which likely reminded Michael of the time he also experienced a home invasion. Michael saves the Protagonist during the assault and helps them defeat the mercenaries, after which the two celebrate their victory.
Steve Haines - Michael meets Haines during a job to extract Ferdinand Kerimov (aka Mr. K) from the IAA headquarters. Haines forces him, Trevor, and Franklin into his operations and tortures Mr. K into retrieving information about assassinating an unspecified target. He also gets the protagonists to perform several heists for him. However, more and more suspicion from the Bureau falls on Haines, causing him to become extremely paranoid. He and Agent Sanchez confront Michael and Agent Norton as he attempts to have them framed and arrested for ruining his career. After an ambush by the IAA, Merryweather, and rival FIB forces, Haines attempts to have Michael killed, along with Trevor and Franklin. Fortunately, he decides to spare Michael and Franklin after some convincing from Norton, though he orders Franklin to kill Trevor for being a liability. In the "Deathwish" ending, if Franklin chooses Option C, Trevor kills Steve while he is shooting an episode of his show at Del Perro Pier . At the same time, Michael kills Stretch, an enemy of Franklin and Lamar Davis, at the BJ Smith Recreational Center . If Franklin kills Trevor, Haines will congratulate him and break all ties with him, obeying one final wish that Weston backs off from wanting Michael dead. Weston will do the same with Franklin about Haines wanting Trevor dead if he kills Michael.
Devin Weston - Michael meets Devin for the first time during a job for Steve Haines, and then again after the Blitz Play heist, when he drops off some documents at Devin's mansion. During this second meeting, Michael is annoyed by Devin's intentionally rude and condescending demeanor, though Devin offers him a deal to produce a film with Michael's idol, Solomon Richards. He also offers Michael, Trevor and Franklin a job stealing rare cars for him, only to refuse to pay them in the end. After Michael refuses to terminate his film's production and accidentally gets Devin's lawyer killed, Devin sends a platoon of Merryweather men to kill Michael's family. However, Michael manages to save his family, and he furiously tells Lester over the phone that he wants to devise a plan to murder Devin and get back at Merryweather, effectively starting a personal war between the two men. This incident leads Devin to later hire Franklin to murder Michael. If "Deathwish" is chosen, Michael happily accepts Franklin's offer to help him and Trevor. Trevor kills Devin's Merryweather guards, kidnaps Devin from his mansion, and shoves him inside the trunk of one of his cars. The three protagonists meet up to taunt a beaten and bloodied Devin for their victory before pushing him (with him inside the car trunk) off a cliff and into the ocean, killing him.
Michael's Special Ability is called "Area Kill". While active, Michael enters a bullet-time-like effect, allowing him to slow time and gain the advantage in shootouts. By enhancing this skill, you increase its maximum storage capacity, which directly affects its duration. Michael's Special Ability lasts 30 seconds when the Stat Bar for Special Abilities has been maxed out.
Like Franklin and Trevor, Michael has received a very positive response from critics and fans of the series, as he was the first protagonist in the Grand Theft Auto series to have a family.
" Michael, to me, is... Who is he? I know who he is. I'm just trying to... He's the person who is trying to ignore some rather large mistakes that they have made. The person who's trying to forget about certain practical but still selfish decisions that they took. He's a man, also obsessed by images and by appearances, and who, when the world doesn't live up to those images and appearances, doesn't know what to do. He just retreats into his head. What he also is, when we started out... What he kind of evolved into as we began thinking about him and developing him... He was the first character we came up with. He began as the idea of what happens to a regular GTA protagonist after they retire? Then you think, what would make him retire? He's a man with a big ego and plenty of good values and plenty of bad values. "
" A guy who's in his mid-40s and on the cusp of middle age who doesn't know what to do, but made a bunch of money and does not know what to do with it. He's theoretically won, but the spoils of victory aren't necessarily what he imagined. For us, that's a very interesting character, unlike what we've done in the past or what we've seen in much entertainment in general, let alone any video games. That was interesting. "
Character model of Michael De Santa .
Michael's grave.
Michael's Tailgater .
Michael's contact image.
Michael in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V .
Michael as he appears during normal gameplay in the enhanced version .
Character Wheel portrait.
Character Wheel portrait during the Prologue .
Michael Townley's business card.
False ID used in the subtle approach of The Big Score .
Unused Hush Smush profile image.
Michael's false ID used in the subtle approach of The Big Score .
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Trevor Philips is a character appearing as one of the three protagonists of Grand Theft Auto V , along with Michael De Santa and Franklin Clinton , and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online . He is portrayed by Steven Ogg .
Trevor is a career criminal and former bank robber with a troubled past and raging abandonment issues. After founding his own company, Trevor Philips Enterprises , he seeks to expand his control over the illegal gun and drug trade in Blaine County , San Andreas . Upon learning of his former friend and partner-in-crime Michael's survival, Trevor, having presumed Michael to be dead for a decade, finds him and resumes their old partnership, but soon discovers troubling secrets about their shared past that lead him to question his loyalties.
Following the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Trevor is referenced in content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online taking place after the single-player story. These confirm that Trevor has retired his company and left Blaine County for new pastures, but his current whereabouts remain unknown.
What is known about Trevor's background is highly speculative and comes from his own words. Trevor was born and raised in Canada , near the border with the United States , or, as he calls it, the "Canadian border region of America". He claims he "grew up in five states, two countries", in "fourteen different homes", "three care homes", "two correctional facilities", with "eight fathers", and "one beautiful, damaged flower of a mother ." [ 4 ]
As a child, Trevor had a history of rage issues and violent impulses that ruined any chances of fitting into society. He claims that, in a fit of rage, he sodomized his hockey coach with a hockey stick , [ 5 ] and at some point he supposedly strangled a clarinet player with his own instrument. Trevor also claims to have killed various animals and "drifters" even during the early years of his life. [ 6 ]
Trevor's childhood itself was an unhappy one. His father was physically abusive towards him, [ 7 ] while his mother was emotionally abusive, overbearing, treated him with condescension and saw him as a "useless boy" who cared little about her. When he was a child, Trevor's father abandoned him in a shopping mall, which Trevor claims to have later burned down in retaliation. Trevor also had a brother named Ryan , whom Trevor was not fond of. Ryan died in an "accident" prior to 2013 .
Trevor dropped out of school, ultimately robbing him of some grammatical skills and basic knowledge, such as the location of ancient Rome, which he believed to be part of America. It is possible, however, that he had some formal education, as he claims [ 8 ] — though possibly sarcastically — that he took a night class in criminal law. Despite this, he does have good mathematical skills, such as being able to accurately calculate the price of four tons of gold in a matter of seconds. Trevor also claims that he was the Canadian under-18 Golf Champion and "almost turned pro". [ 9 ]
Later in his life, Trevor discovered that he had a talent for flying jets. He enlisted in the air force to fly fighter jets, but several days prior to completing his training and becoming a licensed pilot, Trevor was deemed mentally unstable during a psychological evaluation, thus resulting in his discharge and grounding for life. It is implied his discharge was due to his psychological relationship with his mother.
After leaving the military, Trevor became a drifter and committed petty crimes along the border with no particular goal in mind. [ 10 ] In the late 1980s or early '90s, around the age of 20, he eventually began running a small air freight operation in North Yankton [ 11 ] , where he met his future partner-in-crime, Michael Townley .
While waiting on the runway to meet his employer, he saw not one but two dust trails coming up the road, despite the fact that he was told there would be only one person meeting him. Michael exited the first car while an older man whom Michael previously carjacked exited the other, yelling at them. Trevor shot off a flare gun he was carrying into the older man's eye, killing him. He and Michael both dumped the body into a lake afterwards. The flare was still burning from the inside of his head, causing the pair to throw up. After the incident, Trevor and Michael became friends and started a criminal partnership together. [ 12 ] [ 13 ]
Trevor's first job involved robbing a place that cashed checks. However, he was caught because the clerk turned out to be someone who knew him, resulting in him serving four months of a six-month sentence. After Trevor was released, he and Michael committed many robberies all over the Midwest , though Michael's recognizable quoting of lines from Solomon Richards 's movies, and Trevor's habit to snap and murder people in broad daylight often kept them on the run. Throughout their crime spree, they worked with several other accomplices; the closest one being Lester Crest – a talented hacker and heist planner.
Over time, Michael developed a relationship with and married a stripper named Amanda , eventually having two kids, Tracey and Jimmy . This created some friction between the criminals, due to Michael spending more and more time with his new family and less with his criminal activities. Despite this, Trevor began to see himself as an uncle to the couple's children, even vowing to avenge Tracey should anyone 'wrong her'. Over the following years, Michael became more cautious as a criminal because he saw himself having more to lose should he be imprisoned or killed, which led Trevor to believe Michael was going "soft". As a result, Trevor recruited a fellow crook named Brad Snider to take part in their robberies. Michael and Lester distrusted Brad, never showing any empathy towards him. At some point, Brad suggested to Trevor that they cut off Michael and work only with each other. Trevor refused, believing he should stay loyal to Michael.
The last time Trevor would see Michael for nine years.
Trevor and Michael remained partners in crime until they undertook an ill-fated heist in 2004 alongside Brad and a getaway driver in Ludendorff , North Yankton. Secretly, Michael made an agreement with corrupt FIB agent Dave Norton to exit his life of crime and start over with his family in Los Santos . The plan involved the group robbing a cash depot , followed by them making their way to a rendezvous point, where Dave would fatally shoot Trevor and non-fatally shoot Michael, with the latter then pretending to be buried at the Ludendorff Cemetery , before actually moving to Los Santos with his family.
The heist initially ran relatively smoothly until two security guards were killed – the second one by Trevor as the guard held Michael at gunpoint – and the police arrived, which the group had to fight through, barely managing to get to their getaway car . As they drove to the rendezvous point, where they were told a helicopter was waiting for them, their driver was killed by the police and Michael was forced to take the wheel, though their vehicle was struck by an oncoming train at a railroad crossing and destroyed. Michael insisted that they stick to the plan, and they began walking in search of the helicopter. They were then ambushed by Dave, who fired at the trio, missing Trevor and fatally wounding Brad instead, before shooting again and "injuring" Michael. Trevor refused to leave his friends behind and attempted to fight off the police until a weary Michael told him to save himself, prompting Trevor to reluctantly make his escape.
As a result of the failed heist, both Trevor and Michael wrongly believed one another to be dead. Trevor was not able to get access to his savings because of his identity being blown, but regardless managed to evade the police for several years and made a new life for himself in the rural town of Sandy Shores , San Andreas . There, he developed an addiction to crystal meth and founded a small criminal business with new-found partners Ron Jakowski , a paranoiac conspiracy theorist, and Chef , a meth cook. The business, named Trevor Philips Enterprises (alternatively called Trevor Philips Industries), specialized in arms smuggling and the cooking and sale of crystal methamphetamine. During Trevor's time in Sandy Shores, he affiliated himself with the Aztecas gang, the redneck hillbilly O'Neil Brothers , and high-ranked members of The Lost MC – including the club's leader, Johnny Klebitz . However, the latter's relationship was particularly strained due to Trevor's tendency to occasionally have sex with Johnny's girlfriend, Ashley Butler , in exchange for meth payments, much to Johnny's chagrin.
Trevor, unaware that Brad had succumbed to his injuries, incorrectly believed he had been incarcerated as a result of the failed Ludendorff heist, and sent a letter to the federal prison system addressed to him. However, the letter was intercepted by the FIB, who established a correspondence to monitor him. The responses Trevor received from "Brad" were actually written by FIB trainees under the direction of Dave Norton.
In 2012 , Fooliganz Wade Hebert , Daisy Bell , Kush-Chronic , and several others stopped in Sandy Shores to buy drugs while on their way to "the gathering". They met Trevor, who took the group, save Wade, to a nearby quarry and is implied to have murdered them. Wade never figured out what happened to his friends and decided to stay in Sandy Shores, joining Trevor's criminal empire. At some point, Trevor rammed a hockey stick up Wade's anus, just like he had done before to his hockey coach.
Trevor meets the GTA Online Protagonist after they stole his RV, which he used as a meth lab.
In 2013 , a few months prior to the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Ron contacts the GTA Online Protagonist , who has been ruining the businesses of Trevor and other drug dealers, specifically after stealing an RV full of meth belonging to Trevor for a member of The Families named Gerald . The player meets Trevor at his trailer in Sandy Shores and they settle their issues by agreeing to have the player do jobs for Trevor Philips Industries, which mainly consist of stealing drugs from rival groups, such as The Lost MC, and killing the dealers.
Additionally, Trevor would also occasionally call the GTA Online Protagonist to take down rival planes . [ 14 ]
Trevor planning the Series A heist with Ron, Chef and the GTA Online Protagonist.
Eventually, Trevor plans a heist and recruits the GTA Online Protagonist and several associates to take part . He tasks them with stealing drugs from several groups, such as the Vagos , The Lost MC, and the Ballas , in order to sell them himself.
After the crew successfully takes the drugs, Trevor is at a warehouse, ready to move the product , but is informed that the gangs they robbed are coming back for their goods. After Trevor and the crew hold off the gangs, they rush to the El Gordo Lighthouse , where the drug deal is set to take place. Trevor then gives the crew their money in advance and they leave. He stays at the lighthouse and waits for the buyer to arrive, but when he shows up, Trevor correctly determines that he is an undercover agent, and that the deal is a sting operation by the Drug Observation Agency . Trevor escapes by jumping off of a cliff into the ocean and swimming to safety. Later on, he angrily smashes his head against a tree before crying uncontrollably.
Trevor "consoling" Johnny.
While having sex with Ashley, Trevor's attention is caught by a news report about the robbery of a jewelry store in Los Santos , during which a witness claims one of the robbers quoted a movie phrase that was a favorite of Michael Townley's. Stunned, Trevor grabs a beer and walks out his trailer to process it, only to be confronted by Johnny for having sex with Ashley again. While trying to avoid a confrontation by simply walking away, he is pushed to his breaking-point as Johnny continues to express his anger. Trevor, no longer able to ignore Johnny's rage, mockingly invites him to have sex, and starts making jokes about his meth addiction, claiming that it is the reason for the friction between the two men. Johnny lays his guard down and tells Trevor that he still loves Ashley, to which Trevor responds by hugging and "consoling" him before he finally snaps. He suddenly grabs the biker by the neck and throws him to the ground, where he proceeds to smash his beer bottle against Johnny's face and stomp repeatedly on his head, killing Johnny as Wade, Ron, and Ashley watch in horror.
Knowing that Johnny's gang will be outraged over their leader's callous murder, Trevor decides to preemptively wipe out The Lost MC and their meth business from Blaine County before they have a chance to exact revenge. He drives with Wade and Ron to a Lost hangout in Grapeseed where Terry Thorpe , Clay Simons , and several other members of the Lost are. While driving, he has the option to run over Ashley as she cries over Johnny's body. After announcing and mocking Johnny's death, the members of The Lost retreat to their main hideout , to notify the rest of the gang. Trevor aggressively follows them there in his Canis Bodhi , with Ron and Wade tagging along. As he chases the bikers, Trevor can optionally kill Terry and Clay by shooting or running them off their bikes.
When they arrive, Trevor, alongside Ron and Wade, attacks the hideout and wipes out a number of Lost members. Afterwards, he orders Wade to find out where Michael Townley lives. In the meantime, Trevor and Ron do more work, including attacking the trailer of Aztecas leader Ortega , along with optionally killing him, and taking over an airfield run by The Lost MC, after they vandalize Trevor's trailer as revenge for him killing Johnny.
Trevor preparing to assault the O'Neils.
Trevor attempts to do business with the Los Santos Triads , led by a man known as Wei Cheng , who wants a reliable partner to help expand his business operations in Blaine County. Wei sends his son, Tao Cheng , along with a translator to meet with Trevor, who attempts to show them his meth lab . During the tour, he is forced to hide the translator and Tao in a freezer when members of the Aztecas attack, resulting in a shootout , which Trevor emerges victorious from. Ultimately, however, the Triads cancel the potential deal with Trevor and choose to do business with the rival O'Neil Brothers gang instead.
Enraged after learning this, Trevor decides to kill the O'Neils. On the way to their ranch, Trevor receives a phone call from Elwood O'Neil who invites Trevor to talk so they can smooth the issue over, but Trevor declines the offer and lets Elwood know what he plans to do. A panicked Elwood tells his brothers and associates to protect the farm before leaving with two of his other brothers, Walton and Wynn , to meet with the Triads. Despite the O'Neils' efforts, Trevor attacks the O'Neil Ranch , slaughtering the brothers and obliterating their farm by lighting a gas trail he made using a Jerry Can from their basement meth lab.
A short while later, Trevor receives news from Wade that two people named Michael Townley live in Los Santos, but neither match Trevor's description, as one is an old man and the other is in kindergarten. However, Wade claims that a man who matches Michael Townley's profile named "Michael De Santa" lives in Los Santos, has two children and is married to a woman named Amanda. Trevor recognizes his old partner's alias and decides to take a trip to the city with Wade. Before leaving, he briefly visits The Lost MC's main hideout as a new chapter was recommissioned there to continue business. He destroys their camp entirely with Sticky Bombs , further removing the group's presence from Sandy Shores. Afterwards, he arrives in the city and locates an apartment where Wade's cousin Floyd lives, deciding to stay there, despite Floyd's protests.
Trevor surprising everyone with his sudden appearance.
Trevor then tracks down Michael to his home in the affluent district of Rockford Hills , surprising and shocking everyone in the house, who all believed Michael's word that Trevor was likely dead. When Trevor asks where Tracey is, Jimmy reveals that she is auditioning for Fame or Shame . Trevor and Michael rush to the Maze Bank Arena , knowing well that Tracey will humiliate herself with her terrible dancing on TV. The two disrupt the audition, where Tracey is just as surprised as the rest of her family to see Trevor. When the presenter of the show, Lazlow Jones , begins to make sexual advances towards Tracey during her dance, Trevor and Michael become angry and chase Lazlow to the Los Santos River , where Trevor humiliates the reality TV star by making him take off his pants and dance while he films it on his mobile phone, before leaving.
After learning that Floyd works at the Port of Los Santos , Trevor, along with Wade, forcibly accompanies him to his job, disguised as dock workers to see if anything worth stealing is present . While they are there, Trevor learns that a private security force named Merryweather has a freighter ship containing secret cargo. Assuming the object is valuable, he plans a heist to steal the cargo for himself with the help of Michael, whom Trevor feels "owes him one".
Before the planned robbery can go underway, however, Trevor, along with Michael, are contacted by a highly decorated yet highly-corrupt FIB agent named Steve Haines for assistance in extracting an Azerbaijani prisoner named Ferdinand Kerimov , who is being held by the IAA at their headquarters . Before the operation is underway, Michael introduces Trevor to his recently antiquated friend, a Families gang member named Franklin Clinton . Trevor assists in the operation by flying the helicopter used to allow Michael to extract the prisoner from the building, which he promptly keeps for himself afterwards 'in lieu of payment'.
Trevor demanding to taste the other side of the brick.
Trevor later visits Franklin in his neighborhood , telling him and his friend Lamar that he is looking to make "friends". He accompanies the pair on a minor drug deal at Grove Street set up by a fellow gang member named Stretch , much to Lamar's annoyance. The deal initially goes smoothly, until Trevor grows suspicious and attempts to take a sample of the cocaine brick they were going to purchase. He snaps the brick in half, revealing a key inside and that it was actually a piece of drywall. A gunfight breaks out, and the three have to fight through a group of oncoming rival Ballas gang members. The LSPD arrive, so Lamar leads Franklin and Trevor down into the Los Santos River. Hijacking jet skis from a rapper's professional photo shoot, the trio escape via the river from the oncoming police.
Trevor is brought back to work for the FIB once more, this time to interrogate Kerimov, the man he helped to rescue from the IAA. Trevor extracts information out of Kerimov by torturing him, while Haines observes and asks the questions, before relaying the answers to Michael and Dave Norton, who are supposed to find and assassinate alleged Azerbaijani terrorist Tahir Javan . After the job is done, Haines orders Trevor to kill Kerimov and dispose of his body before leaving. Instead of following Haines' orders, Trevor helps Kerimov escape by driving him to the Los Santos airport and telling him to run away in order to become an advocate against government-sanctioned torture, despite the fact that Kerimov lives in Los Santos, has American citizenship, and has family living there as well.
Eventually, Trevor gets to put his heist into motion and manages to steal the target cargo with the help of Michael and Franklin. However, Michael and Trevor's old contact whom the former had recently been working with again, Lester Crest, arrives to discourage Trevor from taking the cargo, as it is in fact a superweapon that the U.S. government were planning to trade to the Chinese and will stop at nothing to recover it, especially if it is in the hands of a person like Trevor. Trevor initially refuses to give it up, but is forced to do so when Michael and Franklin agree it is not worth keeping due to its dangerous nature.
Following the heist, Trevor receives a call from Elwood O'Neil , who threatens to kill Trevor for murdering his brothers and destroying the O'Neil family ranch in Sandy Shores. Trevor ignores the threat and invites Elwood and what remains of his family to come and find him in Los Santos before hanging up the call.
Trevor , Michael and Chef in The Paleto Score .
Getting over the failed heist, Trevor continues to do jobs with Michael and Franklin, including stealing money from an armored car and helping to procure luxury vehicles for a billionaire named Devin Weston , the latter of which they are not paid for , greatly enraging them. Eventually, Trevor takes a job with Michael that involves assassinating the cousin of Mexican drug lord Martin Madrazo , for planning to testify against him in a court case. Trevor is under the assumption that Michael brought him on to help case Madrazo's house , but when he mentions this, Michael clarifies they are not going to rob Madrazo, annoying Trevor. After Michael shoots down the plane that Madrazo's cousin was flying on, Trevor finds the crash site and kills the cousin, who survived the crash, then recovers the testimony. As Trevor drops it off at Madrazo's ranch, payment negotiations fall through and he witnesses Madrazo mistreating his wife, Patricia . Trevor, having developed an infatuation with her and already being in a poor mood over not getting to rob Madrazo, severs one of his ears and kidnaps Patricia, forcing himself and Michael to go into hiding at the former's trailer. During this time, the pair are unable to enter Los Santos without being attacked by Madrazo's men.
Whilst in hiding, Trevor continues trying to run his business, kills what's left of the O'Neils with Michael and Franklin, and helps rob a bank in Paleto Bay in order to secure funding for another FIB job , which then requires him to help Michael and Dave Norton escape the Humane Labs and Research facility as they try to steal a neurotoxic chemical being developed there. Eventually, Michael repays Madrazo with an artifact he and Trevor steal from a Merryweather train, while a reluctant Trevor returns Patricia to her husband, whom he threatens with further violence should he ever mistreat his wife again. With his problems with Madrazo now taken care of, Trevor and Michael are once again able to safely enter Los Santos.
Upon Trevor's return to Floyd's apartment, he encounters Floyd's girlfriend Debra , who has returned home from a business trip overseas. Debra quickly becomes annoyed with Trevor's presence, demanding that he leave. Trevor drives Debra to her limits after suggesting that she caught crabs at the conference she attended and that they were "regular little fuck fests", and eventually breaks down crying and makes a mocking proposal to marry Debra and Floyd. An enraged Debra brandishes a gun at Trevor, and Floyd picks up a nearby knife after mustering some courage, to which Trevor tells them that they "are not very fucking nice". In the ensuing chaos, Floyd is shot in the head and Debra is stabbed to death. After leaving the apartment, a blood-stained Trevor encounters Wade, who asks where Floyd is. Trevor lies to him and says that Debra and Floyd mysteriously " disappeared " and probably won't come back. Wade and Trevor then move into the Vanilla Unicorn strip club after "taking it over" by murdering the previous manager . There, he meets with Michael, Franklin, and Lester to plan the robbery of the Union Depository . In order to do so, they survey the depository for any possible escape routes. Michael and Franklin observe by car, while Trevor and Lester observe by helicopter.
Trevor digging up Michael's grave to confirm his suspicions.
After meeting up with Michael at his mansion, Trevor tries to convince Michael that they bust Brad out of prison and start robbing banks like they used to do years ago. Michael refuses, however, due to the fact that he has a family and wants to make movies, which irritates Trevor. Because of Michael's reluctance to talk about Brad and Trevor's suspicions about what actually happened in North Yankton and who was really buried in Michael's grave, Trevor deduces that Michael betrayed him and flies back to North Yankton, with Michael in pursuit. Trevor arrives first at the graveyard and exhumes Michael Townley's grave. His suspicions are confirmed when he finds Brad's decaying corpse in Michael's place. After a stand-off at the grave, during which Michael somewhat explains the deal that took place between him and Dave Norton, Trevor, feeling hurt and betrayed by Michael's revelation, flees when the duo is ambushed by Wei Cheng's Triads, who had followed Michael from the airport, hoping that he would lead them to Trevor.
As Trevor flies back to San Andreas, he receives a phone call from Wei Cheng who threatens Trevor, claiming that he kidnapped Michael and that he will kill him if he does not surrender his business in Sandy Shores, mistaking Michael as Trevor's gay lover due to the fact that they lived together in his trailer for the period of time while Madrazo was after them. Trevor ignores the threat due to his newly ignited feud with Michael and tells Cheng to do as he pleases.
Much later, Trevor meets up with Franklin at his aunt's house in Strawberry . When Franklin asks him about Michael's whereabouts, Trevor becomes agitated as he reluctantly tells Franklin that Michael was kidnapped by the Triads before punching a nearby pedestrian and leaving, requiring Franklin to rescue Michael. At some point afterwards, Trevor wakes up drunk on a small island off the coast of the Palomino Highlands , surrounded by the bodies of Lost MC members, presumably having been killed by Trevor.
Trevor helping Michael during the Kortz Center shootout.
Although he now considers Michael to be his enemy, Trevor, aware that he and Michael need each other to pull off the Union Depository heist that they've dreaming about for ages , and refusing to allow anyone but himself to kill Michael, comes to assist Michael and Dave Norton when they are ambushed by the FIB, IAA, and Merryweather at the Kortz Center . After helping deal with an incident where Lamar is set up by Stretch to be captured by the Ballas, the Union Depository heist is carried out successfully, as Trevor and the crew manage to escape with tons of gold worth millions.
After the heist, Franklin is given separate orders by Steve Haines and Devin Weston to kill one of his friends. Haines wants him to kill Trevor due to his unpredictable nature making Trevor a liability, while Weston wants him to kill Michael as revenge for the death of his lawyer and subsequent failure to murder Michael's family , both incidents that Weston blames Michael for. Franklin must choose to kill Michael, kill Trevor, or save them and team up with them both to kill all of their enemies .
Franklin contacts Lester and asks him for help on figuring out what to do. Although initially suggesting that Franklin kill both Michael and Trevor, Lester devises a plan to get rid of their enemies once and for all, by luring Haines' corrupt FIB allies and Weston's private Merryweather battalion to a foundry where the three protagonists plan to ambush and kill all of them, stripping both Haines and Weston of their brute force power.
Trevor helps Franklin, Michael, and Lamar fight off Merryweather and the FIB. After killing all of them, Franklin, Michael, and Trevor discuss killing their enemies. Michael suggests killing Steve Haines, while Trevor suggests killing Dave Norton, a proposal rejected by Michael because they need him alive so that he can clear their names. Trevor then suggests killing Stretch and Franklin suggests killing Wei Cheng. After their discussion, they call Lester to track down their targets. Franklin goes after Wei, Michael goes after Stretch, and Trevor goes after Steve.
Franklin and Trevor meet at the Murrieta Oilfields where the former pulls a gun on the latter, claiming that he likes him but he's going to get them all killed in the end. Trevor flees in his truck with Franklin in hot pursuit, escalating into a full-speed chase around the fields. Eventually, Michael crashes into Trevor's truck, causing him to crash into a gas tanker, covering him in gasoline.
As an injured Trevor climbs out of his car, he realizes that Michael and Franklin have teamed up to kill him, declaring them both "Judases" and offering them the opportunity to shoot him, having lost the will to live upon learning that two of his closest friends had turned on him. Either Franklin or Michael shoots the gas, which incinerates Trevor before the tanker explodes. Afterwards, Franklin and Michael will frequently reassure themselves and others who ask that Trevor was a dangerous maniac and that taking him out was the right choice.
Franklin calls Trevor and asks for his help with killing Michael, but Trevor refuses, saying that he is "done with traitors" and telling Franklin they "deserve each other". After Franklin kills Michael, Trevor emails Franklin asking if it was him who did it, which Franklin denies. Trevor, however, does not believe him and cuts off all ties, telling him that Franklin is dead to him. If the pair meet in the street, he will accuse Franklin of being a snake and warns him to stay away. When Jimmy calls him, Trevor isn't sure what to say as he was never close to his own father, but that he sends his best to Amanda.
As mentioned by Ron Jakowski during the cutscene after purchasing the Hangar in the Smuggler's Run update, set in 2017 , Trevor has "gone Vinewood " and became a "guru" and a "lifestyle coach". It is unclear if Trevor has exited the drug trade entirely, but Ron refers to Trevor as his "old boss", indicating that Ron no longer works under Trevor. This was the first confirmation that Something Sensible is not the canonical ending in Grand Theft Auto V .
Later, Trevor is briefly referenced, though not by name, during the events of The Diamond Casino & Resort update, set in 2019 . During the Casino Story mission Casino - Loose Cheng , Agatha Baker tells the GTA Online Protagonist that Tao Cheng went to Sandy Shores to purchase crystal meth from a dealer he had previously met around there (referencing the business deal between Trevor and the Triads during the mission Trevor Philips Industries in Grand Theft Auto V ), although the dealer was nowhere to be found and Tao got kidnapped by The Lost MC . Later, in the mission Casino - Strong Arm Tactics , when driving Tao and his translator to the Pacific Bluffs Country Club to meet up with Agatha, Tao says "I almost got killed at this country club once already. Never again", referencing the events of The Third Way mission in Grand Theft Auto V , and confirming it as the canonical ending in GTA V .
In The Diamond Casino Heist update, Jimmy De Santa is employed in the protagonist's Arcade . When the player is idle around him, he calls Lester the "weirdest uncle in history", before correcting himself saying "second weirdest", implying Trevor is still close with the De Santas as of 2019.
While not directly mentioned or present, Trevor makes another appearance in The Cayo Perico Heist update via a salacious picture included in the Madrazo Files , during the finale cutscene of the first playthrough (set in 2020 ) of The Cayo Perico Heist , alongside Patricia Madrazo, confirming that they did have an affair together.
Although Trevor is not seen during the events of the Los Santos Tuners update, KDJ states during The Lost Contract that Chef works with "a real psycho crew", possibly referring to the remaining members of Trevor Philips Enterprises, or a possible foreshadowing of the Fooliganz , who both Chef and Ron are seen to have connections with.
In 2021 , Trevor is once again mentioned in The Contract by F. Clinton and Partner 's security guard , stating that a "crazy dude" dressed like a "hobo" barged into Franklin's office and claimed that he and Franklin used to work together. After the security guard told him that Franklin wasn't available, he tried to defecate on the office desk. He is also mentioned by Franklin himself, after Imani tracked down the GTA Online Protagonist's background and informed Franklin that they used to work with Trevor in 2013. During the stolen watch variation of Security Contract: Recover Valuables , it is revealed that the Vanilla Unicorn club has been taken over by the Armenian Mob , meaning Trevor no longer maintains ownership.
By 2022 , during the events of The Criminal Enterprises and Los Santos Drug Wars updates, it is revealed that most of Trevor's businesses are now abandoned, including the TPI Meth Lab . The Fooliganz gang took over Trevor's disused meth lab at Ace Liquor and the TPI Warehouse for themselves, the latter being turned into The Freakshop . Ron also mentions that Trevor no longer lives in Sandy Shores by this time, which could mean that Trevor Philips Enterprises is defunct by this time.
Trevor's former home appears to be haunted by the ghost of Johnny Klebitz , which was caught on camera as evidence for paranormal activity during a public photography competition in 2023 for a documentary series about paranormal activity in Blaine County created by the Ghosts Exposed documentary crew.
In early 2025 , as part of the Agents of Sabotage update, Ron sends the GTA Online Protagonist a text message informing them that the McKenzie Field Hangar that Trevor used to own is going to be put up for sale soon by Maze Bank Foreclosures and that he never really trusted Oscar Guzman . He also asks the player to let him know who ends up purchasing the hangar. The property is eventually acquired by the GTA Online Protagonist.
Characters murdered by Trevor Philips before the events of Grand Theft Auto V or during the Prologue.
Characters murdered by Trevor Philips in the storyline of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Characters murdered by Trevor Philips in the storyline of Grand Theft Auto V .
Characters murdered by Trevor Philips during the Strangers and Freaks missions.
Characters optionally murdered by Trevor Philips, depending on the player's choice.
Characters optionally murdered by Trevor Philips in Grand Theft Auto V , although not intended to be killed . These characters are still alive regardless of the player's choice, and some of them physically appear in the post-2013 events of Grand Theft Auto Online .
Trevor has been described as a difficult person to deal with: extreme, impetuous, vengeful, sociopathic, unhinged, unpredictable, untamed, infamous, homicidal, and prone to violent outbursts and destructive rampages. He does everything in a sociopathic and relentless manner and, although he's like this, he's honest about it and will never show hypocrisy. He has his own charm along with his own principles. However, Dan Houser has confirmed that Trevor "may not be all he seems" and is still "too horrible" to be a hero of any kind. He is also quite insecure about being born in Canada and takes offense to people mocking his accent. Almost all of his Rampages are caused by Trevor flying into rage over being mocked over his Canadian accent. During a mission, Ron asks Trevor about his business dealings in Canada, resulting in Trevor getting defensive and demands for Ron to clarify. Ron hastily corrects himself by asking about Trevor's business dealings in North Yankton "along the Canadian border", defusing a possible violent outburst from Trevor, thus showing his insecurity for being Canadian. Also, while hanging out with Michael and Franklin , the former will sometimes remark "You're not even American." during a conversation. Somewhat enraged, Trevor will reply "I am! Fuck you!" and Michael will respond with "Whatever you say, eh." mocking Trevor's accent. This further shows his insecurity about being Canadian.
Trevor's mere presence always puts others on edge due to his extremely short temper and unpredictable, impulsive behavior. Ron, who is one of Trevor's friends and an unlikely one at that, is constantly terrified of him and frequently tries to appease Trevor whenever he can, especially if he is close to getting angry. Michael is also wary of him when they reunite, stepping in front of his son to protect him. Despite Ron's fear and Trevor's sociopathic behavior, they do seem to show a level of trust to each other as Trevor usually tasks Ron to do a few missions for him such as blowing up The Lost MC fuel tank and helping him drop off cargo via a plane, as well as running Trevor Philips Enterprises in his absence. Wade, another friend, is equally scared of Trevor. Though Trevor torments and punches Wade often, this bullying extends to Wade 's cousin, Floyd , as well. Even strangers who have seen very little of him can be put off by his presence, shown when he instantly put Fabien on edge despite not even knowing him in the opening cutscene for the mission Fame or Shame . In The Merryweather Heist , he gets angry quickly when his score is compromised. In the offshore ending, he gets so angry that he rams his face onto a wooden board and repeatedly smashes his face on it. His personality is stated to be partly based on that of legendary English prisoner Charles Salvador , also known as "the most violent prisoner in Britain". He is a man known for his sudden violent outbursts which have earned him fame.
Out the three protagonists, Trevor can be said to be a true sociopath, as he easily kills with no remorse, has the typical parental issues (abandoned by his father and sensitive about his mother), is a pyromaniac, frequently abducts people and takes them to the Altruist Cult (the cult in question is implied to be made up of cannibalistic killers of which Trevor seems to be aware of) which he calls his "friends in the mountains" and has the habit of making sadistic jokes about his victims. For example, Trevor makes a joke about the piece of Johnny Klebitz 's brain left under his boot after he killed him, and telling Elwood O'Neil over the phone that Elwood had "too many brothers " and that they needed "culling". When Trevor kills Johnny, he demands that Johnny get up to face him, apparently unaware that he killed him. It is extremely unlikely that he cared though due to his plans to get rid of The Lost and how enraged he was with Johnny. In contrast with this behavior, however, is his protectiveness of Michael's family and his apparent grief when he thought Michael was dead, which shows a level of emotion not common in most sociopaths as they usually have little to no positive emotions for other people. In addition to this he refused to leave Michael in the prologue, while he was on the ground after being shot. Trevor seems to only care about the people very close to him and he can be truly loyal to them, which specifically includes his mother, Patricia Madrazo, Maude , Michael, and later on even Franklin and Lamar. Brad's death affected him harshly, leaving him to blame Michael for what happened nine years ago back in North Yankton.
In contrast with his heavily sociopathic behavior, he has shown many times how needy he is for love and care. He tells Michael repeatedly how much he mourned him, to the point that he got a memorial tattoo with Michael's name on it. As he was being confronted by Floyd and Debra, he told them how much he wanted to be with them. His relationship with Patricia was also a display of true love and, in his words, he enjoyed a lot of the time spent with her.
Despite his weak relationship with Amanda and having a strained friendship with Michael, Trevor does care for Jimmy and Tracey , viewing them as surrogate niece and nephew. Evidence of his caring is chasing Lazlow Jones when he does a sexual pose against Tracey as she performs a stripper-like dance and forcing him to take off his pants and dance in his underwear. Also, he will not allow Jimmy to drink alcohol when hanging out with him. Despite this, Trevor will insult Jimmy and Tracey when he encounters them outside of missions.
Trevor also seems to sometimes dwell on respect. When Wade calls Ashley Butler a "bitch", Trevor asks him if he thinks it's clever to disrespect women. He also often tells some of his friends to show some respect to himself, and sometimes even others. In the mission Trevor Philips Industries , despite Chef worrying about the arrival of the Aztecas at the meth lab, Trevor still orders him to show manners to Tao Cheng and his translator who want to see the meth lab operation, calling them as their "guests". When Wade is covered in sewage, Wade's cousin suggests calling the heist off, but Trevor responds by telling him to respect Wade for what he went through and so he should carry on with the heist.
Despite his behavior, Trevor possesses an awareness for guilt. This is seen in the Strangers and Freaks mission Minute Man Blues in which Manuel , one of the innocent men captured by Trevor and the Civil Border Patrol members Joe and Josef on suspicion of being an illegal immigrant in the previous mission An American Welcome , stands up to Trevor fearlessly despite the latter pointing a gun at him, and claims he and his family have migrated to America since more than 200 years ago, saying that he is more American than Trevor is. He criticizes Trevor for disregarding civil rights with "Trevor's friends", who are harassing innocent legal immigrants and, in Trevor's case, in return for money. He adds that, unlike the Civil Border Patrol, he will not give Trevor a single cent for helping him to stop the Civil Border Patrol. Fueled by this and Trevor having already felt the Civil Border Patrol's actions were indeed illegal, he storms into a rage and hunts down and puts an end to the Civil Border Patrol once and for all. Also, when Trevor runs over a main character, he will often scream "No!" in panic, although he may instead blame the person for being in his way in an unconcerned way.
Trevor uses threats of sexual violence to show his dominance over other men, as well as enjoying making them uncomfortable. He seems to take it a step further with Floyd , as there are many things that suggest a sexual relationship. Notably, if the player switches to Trevor during his stay at Floyd's condo, sometimes Trevor can be seen looking over Floyd as he lays in the fetal position wearing women's clothing, uttering an apology to Debra while sobbing. However, this could just be Trevor showing his dominance by humiliating Floyd. Also, if the player chooses to catch Ralph Ostrowski , Trevor implies that he sexually abused men while in prison. It should be noted that this behavior is only present when in the presence of weak people such as Ron, Wade, Floyd, and a meth-addicted Johnny Klebitz.
On the other hand, he respects and encourages bravery on his friends and partners in crime. During job preparations, he often tends to taunt and call out anyone who shows a sign of doubt, fear or weakness, and when they get back angrily at him, Trevor applauds and approves their reaction as a way to man them up.
In direct contrast to his erratic and chaotic nature, Trevor also appears to be highly intelligent and somewhat cultured. Although seemingly lacking of refined tastes, Trevor speaks in the most eloquent manner out of all three protagonists, utilizing elaborate and complex vocabulary as well as displaying a surprisingly dry wit. It must be noted that having studied 4 years at a military academy, Trevor is the only GTA protagonist to date with a college degree, possibly explaining his use of complex vocabulary and hinting at a sophisticated nature that he might or might not be intentionally masking. Trevor is incredibly focused and professional on the jobs at hand, displaying a surprising capacity for calculation and planning, even under duress and in highly chaotic situations. He can follow the plans strictly and also he has proven to have great ideas for big jobs and lead them successfully, These include stealing the drug stashes belonging to many dangerous groups and stealing a multi-million secret weapon from a heavily armed security group . However, these operations were failures since they lacked a prior careful inspection and were performed hastily (one being a police sting, the other putting the crew in extreme danger worldwide).
Trevor has shown some hints that he feels genuine sexual attraction towards men too, besides his normal sexually dominant behavior towards weaker men. He showed certain interests in the "stag do running man" random encounter . While picking up a couple of hitchhikers, the very inebriated couple begins to have sex as Trevor drives the vehicle. He offers to join in and perform fellatio on the boyfriend. In the mission I Fought the Law... , Trevor touches the private parts of one of the guys as he's dressed as a policeman. During a drinking outing with Franklin , he admits he has previously performed fellatio on men ("I'd rather suck a dick than smoke weed... and trust me, I've done both!"). In another conversation during an outing with Michael and Franklin at the same time, he admits he's bisexual after Franklin asked him whether he's gay or not.
Trevor is shown to be disgusted by racism, misogyny, as well as self-righteous and hypocritical attitudes which he considers "fake". He criticizes the Minute Men and the LSPD for their racist behavior, reprimands Wade for his remarks toward Ashley, threatens Martin for mistreating Patricia, and is clearly disturbed by Josh Bernstein allowing Trevor to have sex with his wife (he claims he would not have done so if he knew, but then proceeds to take back this comment). After torturing Ferdinand Kerimov, he mocks the FIB's use of torture as a means of interrogation, claiming it is only a method of showing dominance and that the government fails to admit this. In one of his character switch scenes, he can even be throwing a Lost MC member off a bridge for being a bigot.
Trevor also appears to suffer from coulrophobia , since in Grass Roots mission for Barry , dialogue suggests that Trevor once was or still is scared of clowns, saying such things as "I'm a big boy now" and "you can't hurt me anymore" (paraphrasing). He might also ask the clowns, "Are there any more sex offenders out there!?" This implies that, as a child, Trevor was sexually assaulted by a clown, thus causing his fear of clowns. Additionally, when the player gets Lamar, Franklin, and Trevor to hang out together off-mission, Franklin will mention he's sitting next to "Two Clowns" (Trevor and Lamar). Trevor then starts to get a little worried, asking, "Clown? Where?!" which may prove he is still scared of clowns.
Although very rarely seen in-game, Trevor appears to be secretly ashamed and a bit scared of his personality. When hanging out with both Michael and Franklin simultaneously, Trevor might reveal in an ashamed tone that he doesn't want his mother to see him like this. If Trevor hangs out with Lamar enough times, he will admit to Lamar that sometimes he realizes how he's thinking (fixation on violence, horrible brutalities etc.) and gets scared of himself. If Trevor huffs gas on his trailer porch, he may sometimes mutter that he feels suicidal. This could hint that all the reckless stunts Trevor commits (such as flying a Duster inside a cargo plane while getting shot at with an RPG ) might be subconscious attempts of getting killed. When drunk with Franklin, Trevor talks about being lonely and asks Franklin to hold him. When Franklin replies with jokes, Trevor starts crying, "Why are you joking!? I said I'm lonely!"
While Trevor is often controlling, loud, and willing to hurt anyone who he perceives as a threat in some way, whether physically or mentally, he is terrified by his mother. Upon meeting her in his trailer in the mission Mrs. Philips , he speaks incoherent sentences, is unable to answer questions and runs off to do the job she assigns to him without questioning it.
Trevor is also extremely talented at mathematics. According to Wade, Trevor is "really good with numbers" and can solve even the most difficult of math problems in his head in a matter of seconds without much (if any) hesitation, as seen in the Depository heist.
Michael De Santa - Trevor's relationship with Michael started around the late 1980s, over twenty years prior to the game's events, when he and Trevor were escorting cargo across the border. Trevor claims that Michael's victim came after him, so Trevor shot a flare into the other man's head and dumped the body using his plane (which Trevor claimed "Never smelled the same again."), and as soon as they left the plane, they both threw up and became friends. Michael roped Trevor into his many bank robberies and the two worked well together, growing a fondness for one another. At some point during their long partnership, however, there was a rift in their friendship, likely caused by Michael starting a family and wishing to settle down. Trevor began seeing Michael as "soft", but remained loyal to him and refused to abandon him even when Brad suggested that they cut him off. Unbeknownst to Trevor, Michael did not share his levels of loyalty, seeing Trevor as a reckless and dangerous psychopath. This eventually led him to make a secret deal with FIB agent Dave Norton to sell out his crew during their heist in North Yankton, after which both Trevor and Michael assumed one another to be dead. Trevor would subsequently mourn for Michael and at some point had "R.I.P Michael" tattooed on his arm to commemorate his best friend.
After their eventual reunion nine years later, Trevor is initially furious with Michael for not contacting him at any point after starting his new life in Los Santos, but quickly forgives him and the two resume their old friendship and partnership. Trevor seems to share a strange bond with Michael, as indicated by the fact that he tolerates his betrayal and occasional references to Trevor's Canadian roots, whereas others have been killed for far less. Once Trevor figures out what truly went down in North Yankton, however, he contemplates killing Michael before abandoning him to the mercy of Wei Cheng 's henchmen , later refusing to rescue him even when Wei Cheng contacts Trevor to tell him that Michael will be killed. After Franklin rescues Michael, Trevor, despite still hating the latter, comes to his aid during the shootout at the Kortz Center , believing he needs Michael alive for their final score: the Union Depository heist. After the heist is pulled off successfully, Trevor is so pleased that he no longer wants to kill Michael, though he still sees him as a "snake".
In Something Sensible , after Michael arrives to help Franklin kill Trevor, the latter states, I thought I was with one Judas! I'm surrounded by them. He then allows the pair to kill him, being so hurt by the betrayal of his closest friends that he has lost his will to live. In The Time's Come , Franklin calls Trevor to help him kill Michael, but he refuses, saying he has enough "traitors" in his life. If Franklin meets with Trevor afterwards, the latter deduces that Franklin went through with killing Michael and calls him a Judas and a backstabber before warning him to stay away. It is implied Trevor was willing to forgive Michael, but never got the chance to apologize. In The Third Way , Trevor and Michael continue to be at odds and aim their guns at each other until Franklin calms them down and explains that they need to work together to eliminate their enemies. Trevor is the first to relent and lower his gun, after which he, Michael and Franklin take out their various foes. In the aftermath, Trevor and Michael finally manage to rekindle their friendship, with Trevor considering Michael a friend, albeit one that he hates, which Michael accepts. If Trevor and Michael hang out afterwards, the latter extends a genuine apology to Trevor and offers him his share of the Big Score; Trevor declines the money but accepts the apology. On a subsequent hangout, Trevor will also apologize to Michael, claiming he shouldn't have acted the way he did. If Franklin hangs out with Trevor, he will ask him why he did not kill Michael, to which Trevor admits that he somewhat understands why Michael did what he did and that it would be wrong to kill him since he has a family. He also jokingly states that he and Michael both have "custody" over Franklin.
Franklin Clinton - Trevor is introduced to Franklin by Michael. They seem to be very good partners during the jobs they perform together, and later become close friends. Franklin is one of the few people who doesn't feel intimidated by Trevor's rage and violent outbursts. In fact, he usually manages to cool Trevor down in a collected manner. In the optional ending that involves killing Trevor, he protests that he's been nothing but straight and true with Franklin. In the ending where Franklin kills Michael, Trevor would cut off ties with him and claim that he's dead to him. Should all three protagonists survive , Trevor will continue to see Franklin as a friend and tell him that he's "proud" of him when they hang out.
Ron Jakowski - Ron is the closest thing Trevor has to a "friend", besides Franklin and Michael, though their relationship is very one-sided. Trevor frequently abuses Ron both physically and verbally for his own amusement, while Ron only hangs around him out of fear, being very paranoid or outright terrified when spending time with Trevor. Despite Ron often being on the end of Trevor's temper, Trevor places high levels of trust in him, such as allowing him to run TP Enterprises in his absence. When introducing Ron to Michael, Trevor describes him as a "good guy, very loyal," and after Ron sources getaway vehicles for the duo in Derailed , Trevor describes him as "dependable".
Wade Hebert - Wade appears to be good "friends" with Trevor and has been since they met the year before the events of the game. Wade is extremely loyal to Trevor and has no problem following his directions. Wade's stupidity and child-like personality cause him to occasionally screw up his tasks, which understandably gets on Trevor's nerves. In spite of Trevor being annoyed by Wade, he does generally care about him since he is useful for his business plans. Trevor also sees potential in Wade, as evidenced by the time when they met and Trevor caused Wade's friends Kush-Chronic and Daisy Bell to "disappear", while sparing Wade himself.
Floyd Hebert - Floyd appears to be terrified of Trevor. He's forced by Trevor to help him in his crimes, under menace of having his home and furniture trashed. In the mission Hang Ten , he finally decides to stand up to Trevor, along with his girlfriend Debra , ordering him to leave their condo. After a heated discussion, Debra pulls a gun on Trevor, and Floyd draws a knife to defend himself, making Trevor presumably kill both of them off-screen. Despite this, deep down Trevor may have actually cared for Floyd's miserable life, as in the mission Scouting the Port he spoke to Wade about bringing Floyd up from his low self-esteem. Later, he got out his penis to rest Floyd's insecurity about his own (though maybe for different reasons than care). He also notably had a concerned facial expression when Debra called Floy "crap" shortly before their murder.
Mrs. Philips - Trevor's mother is only seen during the Strangers and Freaks mission Mrs. Philips . She is implied to have been an abusive and neglectful parent, while at the same time having very high expectations of her son and constantly chastising him. Before the events of the game, she was a stripper/prostitute, as seen in her and Trevor's comments (he states this sometimes when having a private dance). She was also an inmate and became disappointed in Trevor because he never wrote or visited her. During her mission, she asks if Trevor has found a woman yet and does not let him answer the question. She also asks if he's gay, because she has no problem with it. After the mission, she disappears and Trevor is seen crying on the floor. She is highly respected by Trevor, and he gets insulted should anyone ever bring her up, even if they are speaking positively of her. She is the only known person Trevor is afraid of.
Patricia Madrazo - Trevor first met Patricia when visiting her husband's house alongside Michael, and immediately developed an attraction towards her. After Martin refuses to pay him for his work, Trevor, seeing how neglected and abused Patricia is by her husband, decides to kidnap her and hold her hostage at his trailer in Sandy Shores . As time goes on, Patricia is no longer tied up and is seen cooking meals for Trevor, which leads Michael to suggest both have contracted Stockholm syndrome. Trevor soon becomes protective of Patricia, and admits that he loves her and vice versa. When he is forced to return her to Martin, he does so tearfully and promises to rip off Martin's other ear if Trevor finds out he has been mistreating Patricia yet again. For the rest of the game, Patricia will secretly call Trevor on occasion. During the events of The Cayo Perico Heist in 2020, their relationship is confirmed to have been intimate, as they took pictures during their intercourse.
Lamar Davis - Lamar first met Trevor during the mission Hood Safari . Though Lamar initially felt uneasy in Trevor's presence and repeatedly asked Franklin who he was, he soon grew to like him, nicknaming him "Crazy White Dude" due to Trevor's behavior, and even telling Franklin to learn from his being "cold". Lamar will also warmly greet Trevor when meeting him during Lamar Down .
Steve Haines - Trevor first meets Haines during a job to extract Ferdinand Kerimov from the IAA headquarters, and takes an immediate dislike of him. Haines forces him, Michael and Franklin into his operations, with Trevor in particular having to torture Kerimov to extract information that can be used to identify and kill Tahir Javan . Haines also gets the protagonists to perform several heists for him. However, more and more suspicion from the FIB falls on Haines, causing him to become extremely paranoid. He, along with Andreas Sanchez , confronts Michael and Dave Norton at the Kortz Center and attempts to have them framed and arrested for ruining his career. After an ambush by the IAA, Merryweather and rival FIB forces, Haines kills Sanchez and escapes, leaving Michael and Norton to die; however, they manage to shoot their way out, with the assistance of Trevor, who wants Michael alive for the "Big Score". After the shootout, an infuriated Haines wishes to have Trevor, Michael and Franklin killed; Norton convinces him to have only Trevor killed as Franklin and Michael are easier to control. Haines then tasks Franklin with killing Trevor. If "Deathwish" is chosen, the protagonists team up and take down Haines' corrupt FIB unit and Devin Weston's private Merryweather battalion at a foundry, after which Trevor volunteers to deal with Haines, claiming he wanted to kill him from the moment they met. Using information provided by Lester Crest , Trevor finds Haines shooting an episode of his show on a ferris wheel at Del Perro Pier , and kills him.
Devin Weston - Trevor meets Weston for the first time during a job for Steve Haines. Weston later offers Michael an opportunity to produce a film with Michael's idol - movie producer Solomon Richards - and also offers Franklin and Trevor a deal to steal five rare cars, which Weston will sell to government officials in China. However, he ultimately cheats them out of their payment, and also attempts to have Michael's family killed after Michael accidentally caused the death of Devin's lawyer . This incident leads Weston to order Franklin to kill Michael. If "Deathwish" is chosen, Trevor, Michael and Franklin take out Haines' corrupt FIB unit and Weston's Merryweather battalion at a foundry, after which they kill Haines, Stretch and Wei Cheng . After killing Haines, Trevor kidnaps Devin from his mansion , shoves him inside the trunk of one of his cars, and drives him to a cliff, located at the foothills of Mount Chiliad . Michael and Franklin later show up and the three protagonists taunt a beaten Devin before pushing the car (with him still inside the trunk) off the cliff. The car repeatedly crashes into several rocks along the way, until it finally hits the ocean ground and explodes, killing Weston.
GTA Online Protagonist - The GTA Online Protagonist first fell under Trevor's radar when they unwittingly stole an RV used by Trevor as a meth lab for Gerald . Upon realizing he cannot intimidate them, Trevor forces the Protagonist to carry out several jobs for him in order to pay back the debt he feels they owe him, eventually retaining their services in order to set up a drug deal . Trevor's relationship with the GTA Online Protagonist is surprisingly civil as he likely sees them as someone who is similar to him: a lost soul willing to commit whatever crime, no matter how dirty, as long as they're adequately paid for their services.
Trevor has an athletic build. He has brown eyes and receding black hair. In his official artwork , however, he has dark brown hair.
He also has several cuts on his face along with several tattoos including one along his neck featuring a dotted line and the words "CUT HERE", and a memorial tattoo for Michael on his shoulder, as well as a flying bird behind his ear, blazing skull on his left hand and the words "FUCK YOU" across his knuckles. Trevor has a visible scar on his abdomen from what looks to be a knife wound. Trevor also has numerous sores or boils over his lower stomach and back, likely from his drug addictions.
Trevor's default outfit is a plain and dirty white V-neck, ripped up dirty blue jeans or sweatpants and a pair of brown boots. He is seen in one screenshot with a different outfit on—a jean jacket with a half buttoned up shirt along with a white undershirt and a pair of blue jeans. Also, in some screenshots, during the second Grand Theft Auto V trailer and wearing his default outfit, he is seen wearing a calculator watch on his left wrist.
During the Prologue mission, which took place 9 years before the game's events, Trevor sports a different appearance. He isn't bald (although his hairline has started to retreat and there's a small bald spot on the back of his head), has a mullet covering his entire back of the neck, and sports a mustache. These facial features can be purchased at barbers around Los Santos, although Trevor will still be balding with the mullet, like all his hair options. He also lacks his "CUT HERE" tattoo.
He seems fond of buying cheap clothing from Binco and the Discount Shop, while he shows total disdain for buying clothes from Ponsonby's. Some characters also mention that he is an extremely untidy and messy person when it comes to clothes and hygiene. When Michael and Trevor reunite , Michael claims Trevor "[stinks] like piss" and has blood under his fingernails. During the Paleto Score Setup , Michael calls Trevor a "proto-hipster" because his clothes are never clean and never fit. Also, Lamar Davis claims that Trevor has a "smell of ass on the distance of three meters."
There is a running joke during the story of GTA V of characters mistaking Trevor for some celebrity or movie actor. During the Strangers and Freaks mission Nigel and Mrs. Thornhill , the couple Nigel and Mrs. Thornhill mistake Trevor for being the actor and stuntman Jock Cranley . After Franklin met Trevor in Three's Company , he brings him up to Beverly Felton during Paparazzo - The Partnership , where Beverly initially believes Trevor was on the show The Men's Room , which Franklin dismisses. There is also unique pedestrian dialogue for when the player is using Trevor, where pedestrians may mention how Trevor looks exactly like someone they saw in Midget Fuckers 22 .
Because he is a former military aviation pilot, he is skilled in both combat and piloting aircraft like helicopters. In the mission Three's Company , Trevor was the one that flew the team to the skyscraper they needed to get their target out of. In the aftermath, as the team was pursued by law enforcement helicopters, he proved to be an able pilot under pressure.
Trevor is also the master of greed, ambition, and insanity (along with Michael and Franklin), and is seen in many GTA V screenshots performing many challenging (and some illegal) stunts. Some of those stunts include base jumping, jet-skiing, murdering, property destruction, arson, jumping out from moving vehicles and getting chased by the cops.
Wade also said that Trevor is "good with numbers", implying that he has good mathematical skills. This is confirmed during small talk with a bank executive during the Subtle approach to the final heist; upon being told the number of gold bricks they are stealing and the size of each one, Trevor rattles off the exact amount of gold they have before the executive can finish entering the above information into his calculator. Trevor also has an excellent perception and intuition, being the only one to figure out that the brick of coke Franklin and Lamar were buying from the Ballas at Grove Street was actually drywall.
He also proved to be a good strategist and planner. He alone pulled a successful heist on Merryweather Security Consulting, and he's been able to keep his relatively small organization peaking up in the drug and arms dealing against other bigger and more dangerous groups like the Aztecas, The Lost or the Marabunta Grande.
He also proved to be a powerful hand-to-hand combatant, usually knocking down people with a single punch in several cutscenes . He's strong enough to lift and throw people off ledges in several of his switch scenes .
Trevor's special ability is Invulnerability . While active, Trevor can take an excessive amount of damage without dying as well as a special melee attack that he can perform. By enhancing this skill, the player can increase its maximum storage capacity, which directly affects its duration. Trevor's Special skill lasts for 30 seconds when the Stat Bar for Special skill has been maxed out. While in the ability, he can survive hits from trains, Rhino tank cannon shots and being mauled by a mountain lion .
For the list of Trevor Philips' mission appearances, see Trevor Philips/Appearances .
Trevor has had very positive responses from many fans of GTA V and professional video game critics about his "fuck off!" personality, and extreme behavior. Trevor's grand appearance during the GI demo is considered an unforgettable one and sets up the character nicely, (the camera is zoomed in on Trevor's face but then zooms out to show him sitting on the toilet fighting constipation while yelling the famous quote, " I need a fucking midwife for this thing! ").
" Trevor appeared to us pretty much out of nowhere as the embodiment of another side of criminality – of freedom, and of doing what you want. If Michael was meant to be the idea of some version of criminal control – or some sort of bourgeois criminal who tries to go straight and gets sucked back in – what about the guy who didn't do that? What about the opposite guy? What about the guy who just says ‘fuck off’ every moment, is relentless, doesn't want to stop taking drugs, doesn't want to stop partying, doesn't want to be told 'no' by anyone, and just completely revels in chaos? "
" Trevor was the other side of the GTA coin, I suppose. He's the person who's driven purely by desire, resentment, no thought for tomorrow whatsoever, completely id rather than ego-driven. Constant partying, constant madness. The only thing he doesn't want to do is stop. He wants to keep going and ride it all to the end. Won't take an insult from anybody. Kills without remorse, like a true psychopath, but very sentimental for the right reasons when it suits him. That seemed like another side of the kind of GTA coin or the GTA world, but very rarely as the protagonist. That seemed an interesting guy to have as a protagonist. Very unlike anyone we've had in a game before. If you began to develop him and Michael and their previous relationships... We wanted this feeling where you start off thinking one's good and the other's awful. Then you get spun the other way. Then you get spun back the first way, until you can't decide. "
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Claude is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto III and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . He also makes a non-canon Social Club promotional appearance in Grand Theft Auto Online as a selectable " Special Dad " in the Character Creator .
In all of his appearances, Claude never speaks and, as such, doesn't have any official voice actor. His pain sounds, including the ones made by other pedestrians , were voiced by Hunter Platin .
Very little is known about Claude's life. Rockstar Games , however, has stated that by 2001 , Claude is definitely a drifter, probably from the West Coast, new to Liberty City, with no known family and that his surname may or may not be Speed . [ 4 ]
In early 2000 design sketches for Claude by Rockstar North in GTA III: The Game Design Document [ 5 ] [ 6 ] , his original description indicated he was intended to be 29 years old. However, all of the character backgrounds and ages listed in the early design document (most notably Maria's background and age) contradict the established canon of the final game and its subsequent prequels.
By 1992 , Claude was a top contender in an illegal racing ring and owned an abandoned garage in Doherty , San Fierro . He became involved with Catalina , who had recently split up with Carl Johnson , before racing Carl in a losing effort. Following the loss, he hands over his garage to Carl and leaves San Andreas with Catalina, heading to Liberty City .
Catalina and Claude, after leaving San Andreas, begin a nine-year journey to Liberty City, going through many American states committing bank robberies, including Texas and New Mexico. [ 7 ] The two continue on their journey to Liberty City, reaching their destination by October 2001 .
At the start of the game, Claude and Catalina robbed a bank in Liberty City. Catalina, however, turned on her boyfriend, shooting him and leaving him for dead, justifying her decision with "I'm an ambitious girl, and you're just small time". Claude is arrested by the Liberty City Police Department . He is convicted of all charges and is sentenced to ten years in prison . While being transferred to a prison in Portland View , Claude escapes from a police convoy after the Colombian Cartel attack the convoy to free the Oriental Gentleman . Claude and 8-Ball escape to a safehouse in the Red Light District , before moving on to Luigi's Sex Club 7 . Luigi Goterelli , the owner, gives Claude his first job in the city, to drive Misty from the hospital back to the club.
Claude, successful in his errand, continues to be employed by Goterelli, who also has him kill a drug dealer and two pimps , before having him drive Misty to Joey Leone's Garage . Claude then begins to work for Joey, killing both Mike Forelli and Lee Chong , before chauffering Toni Cipriani , later working for him against the Triads , principally killing three Triads warlords . Claude, impressing the Leone Family hierarchy, is introduced to the Don , Salvatore Leone . Salvatore, 'seeing nothing but good things' for Claude, has him looking after his 'girl' Maria for the evening, kill Curly Bob (who was selling secrets to the Colombian Cartel , now co-led by Catalina) and later destroy a freighter used as a factory for the drug SPANK . During this time, Claude also works for El Burro , the leader of the Diablos , helping him on various tasks , and Marty Chonks in his attempts to get out of his various problems .
After destroying the Cartel freighter, a paranoid Salvatore attempts to kill Claude by having him enter a bomb -laden car . Salvatore's wife Maria , however, pages Claude and directs him to a small pier where the two meet Asuka Kasen , co-leader of the Yakuza , and flee to Staunton Island after Maria had told her husband that she and Claude were an "item". Asuka, unconvinced of Claude's loyalty, has him kill Salvatore Leone to prove himself, before having him kill a number of other people causing her problems . She later introduces him to her brother Kenji and Ray Machowski , a corrupt police man working for the Yakuza. Claude helps Kenji with his problems, including settling debts and freeing a man from prison , and helps Machowski in his attempts to remain unnoticed, eventually helping him flee the city by the airport .
Claude continues to look for work and finds employment with King Courtney , who has him attack the Diablos before attempting to kill him on orders from Catalina, and Donald Love , who has him kill Kenji Kasen disguised as a Colombian Cartel gangster in a Cartel Cruiser to provoke a gang war. Asuka, unaware of Claude's role in her brother's death, launches an assault on a Cartel-controlled building site and begins to torture Miguel , co-leader of the Cartel, into giving away Cartel secrets. Armed with the information, Asuka sends Claude on various missions to hurt Cartel operations, including stopping the selling of and stealing a shipment of SPANK. Claude briefly finds employment with D-Ice , leader of the Red Jacks sub-sect of the Southside Hoods , and attacks the rival Purple Nines into defeat . Claude returns to the building site and finds that Asuka and Miguel are both dead, whilst a ransom note from Catalina, wanting $ 500,000 for Maria, is left for him.
Claude goes to the Cartel mansion, escapes an ambush, destroys a helicopter piloted by Catalina, thus killing her, and rescues Maria . As they depart from the Cochrane Dam after Catalina's death, Maria starts a long and annoying speech which certainly irritates Claude. Maria's fate is then left unknown as the screen fades to black while she is talking, before a gunshot is fired and she stops talking.
What happened to Claude after the events of GTA III in 2001 is completely unknown. Rockstar Games' official response in 2011 , on Claude's fate, was that " He certainly isn’t dead. What else became of him, we don’t know ". [ 4 ]
Claude is a calm and serious man who appears almost emotionless regardless of the situation, aside from a slight smirk and usually a glare, seemingly taking everything in stride. Provided he is paid for his services, he will take orders from his bosses without reluctance or complaint, usually giving a nod to show that he understands, and doesn't respond even when he is scolded or shouted at by his bosses for doing something wrong. He also prostrates to his bosses if required, as seen in Kenji Kasen 's case.
Ironically, Catalina states that she betrayed Claude for his lack of ambition, and yet throughout the game, Claude works, kills and rises through the ranks of the Liberty City underworld, all just to get his revenge on her. Because Claude never verbalizes his thoughts, it's unclear if he has any true loyalty or respect to anyone. As long as he is paid and it will get him closer to getting revenge, he will work for, and kill, anyone, as evidenced by him killing Kenji Kasen . He even fights on multiple sides of gang wars, working for the Mafia , the Diablos , the Yakuza , and the Yardies , completely without hesitation, and goes as far as to orchestrate a gang war between the Yakuza and the Colombian Cartel along with Donald Love .
It should be noted that when Claude does kill one of his former bosses, it's usually those who mistreat him or betray him like Kenji or Salvatore Leone , implying that Claude doesn't take slights against him lightly, explaining why he is more than willing to kill them. His vindictive side is further evidenced when he coldly leaves Miguel to be tortured by Asuka Kasen , for his part in Catalina's betrayal. He does appear to at least have an amicable relationship with Asuka and Maria Latore , since the former is willing to help Claude in his pursuit of revenge against Catalina, while the latter saved Claude's life by warning him of Salvatore's trap . Despite this, he shows no concern or empathy when finding Asuka murdered by Catalina, completely ignoring her dead body and focusing solely on the ransom note left behind.
For the vast majority of the game, Claude is taciturn and never speaks. He will only make a slight grunt when he is hurt, or an "Oh!" whenever he drowns, gets shot, run over, or when he falls down. He may also give passing vehicles the middle finger when crossing the road. There are moments where despite not talking, Claude will let his actions or behaviour speak for him, such as appearing taken aback and flinching slightly when Kenji yells at his face, or visibly reacting in surprise when Maria tells him that she told Salvatore that they slept together, the aforementioned leaving Miguel to his fate, and seemingly attempting to intimidate Carl Johnson when the latter has an argument with Catalina over a racing prize.
Claude remains true to his mission of finding and taking revenge on Catalina for leaving him for dead, even showing the slightest bit of pity for Maria when he allows her to live after freeing her and that saving her was at least part of his priorities, only to possibly kill her himself. It's also clear that Claude is primarily out for himself and will use people for his own ends or benefits until he no longer sees a reason to use them anymore; which more often than not ends with Claude killing them.
Worth noting is that Claude may possess a simple, almost childish sense of humor. In all of the missions given by Kenji, Claude engages in the preemptive bow with great enthusiasm, so much so that, during the final mission, he does it without even realising Kenji is yelling at him. Likewise, in GTA San Andreas , he's shown some degree of enjoyment in making CJ feel uncomfortable in his presence.
Claude is a tall Caucasian male in his late twenties to early thirties. He has a somewhat muscular build with brown hair and a faint 5 o'clock shadow. The design document describes him as being a 5′9″ (1.75m) American, of 29 years of age and with a ‘mole on [his] arse’ as his distinguishing feature. [ 8 ] He almost always wears a black leather bomber jacket with bronze zippers with a black T-shirt underneath, green cargo pants and blue sneakers. During Give Me Liberty , Claude wears a baggy orange prison jumpsuit with rolled-up sleeves.
In the PC version of GTA III , the player can access the options menu and modify Claude's appearance via the player setup option where Playa2 can be selected. Upon selection, Claude's appearance changes to a simple re-texture of his regular appearance. He now has a mustache and a goatee and wears a brown leather jacket with light blue jeans and white sneakers. Aside from that, Claude is one of the few 3D-era protagonists (along with Mike ) that wears the same clothes throughout the entire game.
Claude's appearance in GTA San Andreas is very similar, though he has a more youthful and detailed face. He is clean-shaven and his hair is styled almost exactly like it was in GTA III ; however, his long sideburns are missing.
His clothes consist of a re-skinned black biker jacket with a black T-shirt, olive cargo pants and white and black sneakers.
His appearance in Grand Theft Auto Online as a parent for the online character is significantly different from his previous counterpart. Like in San Andreas , he is clean-shaven and has a slightly pale complexion. He wears a black leather jacket with a black T-shirt underneath. The jacket, however, is slightly different from its previous renditions. His hair, instead of the usual spiky fringe, is instead styled into a faux-hawk. His face has been structured into a perpetual frown, with a stiff, grumpy brow. Additionally, when chosen as a parent, if players choose to have their character resemble him more, they can, in spirit, play as a customizable "pseudo-Claude" in GTA Online , who can wear any outfit or hairstyle they choose for him.
"Rip Claude" is to the left.
Antonio "Toni" Cipriani is a main character in Grand Theft Auto III and the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
He is voiced by the late Michael Madsen in GTA III and Danny Mastrogiorgio in GTA Liberty City Stories .
Toni is a member of the Leone Crime Family , a Mafia organization in Liberty City , who was forced to live abroad for four years [ 1 ] following his murder of a made man from a rival Mafia family under the orders of Salvatore Leone . Upon his return to the city in 1998 , he resumes work for the family, helping it increase its influence and eliminate its rivals, primarily the Sindacco and Forelli Crime Families . As a result, the Leone Family becomes the dominant Mafia organization in Liberty City, and Toni earns Salvatore's trust and respect, becoming a Capo within the family. He still retains this position in 2001 , when he briefly employs Claude , the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto III .
Two of Toni's defining attributes are his undying loyalty to Salvatore and his complicated relationship with his mother, Mrs. Cipriani . The latter is often heard berating Toni due to her discontent with him and what she perceives as his failure to live up to his late father 's legacy, though at times she has also been shown to be kind to her son.
Antonio Cipriani was born in Liberty City to Sicilian -American parents: Mrs. Cipriani and an unnamed father. Both of his parents were presumably members, or at the very least associates, of the Leone Crime Family, and Toni would follow in their footsteps, joining the family sometime during his adult life. At an unknown point in time, Toni's father died, and from that day on (or possibly even earlier), Toni's mother began putting a lot of pressure on him, berating her son and arguing with him over the smallest things, because she believed he could never live up to his father's legacy.
Toni continued working for the Leone Family, eventually becoming a trusted associate of Don Salvatore Leone, who in 1994 tasked Toni with killing a rival made man (presumably a member of the Forelli or Sindacco family). This event forced Toni to go into hiding and kickstarted the events of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
In this game, Toni Cipriani assumes the role of the playable character and main protagonist of the game. The game explores Toni's history and exploits three years prior to the events in Grand Theft Auto III .
GTA Liberty City Stories opens with Toni returning to Liberty City in 1998 after a four-year absence, during which he was forced to keep a low profile and was unable to contact anyone, even his own mother, due to the hit he had performed for Salvatore Leone. Immediately upon his return, Toni goes to visit Salvatore, eager to resume work for the Leone Family. However, while Salvatore is grateful for what Toni has done for the family, his long absence has allowed other members of the organization to move up in the hierarchy. Salvatore is forced to strip Toni of his rank and assign him to work under Vincenzo Cilli , who rose to the position of Caporegime during Toni's absence.
Toni now finds himself a low-ranking goon that has to once again gain favor with the Don, in order to secure a leadership position in the family. Toni and Vincenzo immediately dislike each other, and a rivalry develops between the two, as Vincenzo keeps assigning Toni menial tasks and insulting him at every opportunity. Vincenzo later tries to set up Toni by sending him to pick up a Banshee that is being watched by the police , but Toni is able to escape the ambush and destroys the Banshee as retribution before cutting ties with Vincenzo. As Toni keeps rising in the Leone hierarchy, an increasingly jealous Vincenzo tries to murder him by luring him into a trap , but Toni survives and kills Vincenzo.
Later on, Toni finds himself looking after Salvatore's wife Maria Latore , who develops unrequited feelings for Toni and has him do her bidding. However, after learning Toni "has no money", she cuts ties with Toni, reminding him that she is Salvatore's girl and not to hit on her . Much of Toni's work for the Leones revolves around battling two rival Mafia families, the Forellis and the Sindaccos. His efforts are eventually recognized by Salvatore, who has Toni " made " halfway through the storyline, after ordering him to kill the Liberty City mayor , Roger C. Hole , who was under the Forellis' thumb. Toni becoming a made man is enough to impress his mother, who calls off a hit she put on her son earlier and speaks kindly to him for the first time in the game, though she would eventually return to berating Toni by the time of Grand Theft Auto III .
Following this, Toni works for media mogul and mayoral candidate Donald Love on Salvatore's behalf, protecting him from the Forellis' attempts to sabotage his campaign. Despite Toni's efforts, however, Love loses the race due to his connections to organized crime , and the Forellis' puppet, Miles O'Donovan , is installed as mayor. O'Donovan promptly has Salvatore arrested on several crime charges, but Toni remains loyal to his boss and continues to accept jobs from him in prison, where he poses as Salvatore's lawyer. One of these jobs involves killing the Don of the Sindacco Family, Paulie Sindacco , ending the war with the Sindaccos, who are severely weakened and forced to leave Liberty City as a result.
Not long after, Donald Love, who went bankrupt after his ties to the Leone Family were discovered, comes up with a plan to regain his fortune and hires Toni to help him act on it. The two murder real estate businessman and Love's former mentor, Avery Carrington , and steal his re-development plans for Fort Staunton . Toni subsequently destroys Fort Staunton with explosives supplied by 8-Ball , allowing Love's company to receive city funding to rebuild it, and also dealing a major blow to the Forelli Family in the process, as the neighborhood was controlled by them. Later, when Donald finds himself targeted by the Colombian Cartel , he enlists Toni's help to flee the city with the corpses of Avery Carrington and Ned Burner . During this time, Toni also finds himself taking jobs from Toshiko Kasen , the neglected wife of Yakuza leader Kazuki Kasen , who wants to sabotage the Yakuza's operations to punish her husband. This culminates in Toni killing Kazuki in a duel , and a guilt-ridden Toshiko committing suicide shortly after.
Salvatore is eventually released from jail, after being escorted to the courthouse by Toni , due to the Sicilian Mafia wanting Salvatore dead. Following his release on bail, Salvatore realizes that the Sicilian Mafia is to blame for most of the Leone Family's recent problems, and he enlists Toni's help to rescue Mayor O'Donovan, who was kidnapped by Sicilian underboss Massimo Torini to prevent him from dropping the charges against Salvatore. Toni and Salvatore kill Torini and rescue the Mayor from Portland Rock , whereupon Salvatore tells O'Donovan that he is now in the Leone Family's debt and to ensure its protection. Afterwards, Salvatore reveals that Massimo Torini was working for his uncle , who wanted to weaken his nephew's control over Liberty City as revenge for not paying him tribute. After meeting with Uncle Leone to secure peace between the Leone Family and the Sicilian Mafia, Toni has finally earned Salvatore's trust and respect.
By 2001, Toni has become one of the highest-ranking members of the Leone Crime Family. The police had attempted to connect Toni and Salvatore throughout 2001; however, they fail to link them beyond his mother's restaurant. Salvatore's son, Joey , introduces the game's protagonist, Claude, to Toni, whereupon the latter hires Claude to perform several attacks against the Triads , who the Leones are currently engaged in a war with. The jobs Claude performs for Toni include collecting protection money from Mr. Wong's Laundrette , killing three Triad warlords , and destroying the Triad-owned fish factory in Callahan Point . Toni also introduces Claude to Salvatore Leone.
As of 2001, Toni is still living with his mother and is frequently seen in his family-run restaurant, from where he provides Claude with work. The constant insulting from his mother about him not being able to be like his father and failing to live up to her expectations forced him to call the local chat radio station, Chatterbox FM , and complain about his Ma's constant berating. Toni's standing in the Leone Family following Salvatore Leone's assassination is unknown.
Toni's notably temperamental attitude is in some ways similar to that of both Tommy Vercetti and Michael De Santa . In addition, his behavior in scenes of the game suggest that he is very loyal, but very easy to irritate (of course, this may be in part of that he is surrounded by such strange people; for instance, Maria Latore , Joseph Daniel O'Toole , and Donald Love ). When enraged, Toni is capable of practicing extremely violent acts (like using an axe to murder Giovanni Casa and mutilate his body, and using explosives to destroy Fort Staunton), but he also seems to feel remorseful at times (like when he goes to the cathedral to make a confession ). However, like many other GTA protagonists, he too shows very little hesitation in killing anyone standing in his way and occasionally mocks his victims.
Toni believes that people should show proper respect to their parents, as seen in the mission Hot Wheels , when he berates Vincenzo Cilli for receiving oral sex from a prostitute named Cheryl while talking to his mother, and how he desperately tries to please his mother. Like Claude, he will give drivers the finger if a vehicle stands in front of him and tries to mow him down.
Toni seems to be very loyal to his bosses (for example, he saves Salvatore from being crushed in a car which the Sindaccos used to kidnap Salvatore ). However, after completing the storyline mission The Sicilian Gambit , during the ending cutscene , Toni seems to be a little troubled and hesitant for not being paid by Salvatore the couple of million dollars he was promised.
In GTA Liberty City Stories , Toni is significantly thinner than his depiction in GTA III ; this is commented or criticized by his mother, Maria and Salvatore Leone, with his mother and Salvatore in particular commenting about him not being fed well. By GTA III , Toni is fatter and has aged considerably in the three years that have passed.
In GTA Liberty City Stories , circa 1998, Toni has a burly build and light skin, brown eyes, and short, dark brown hair. He has a permanent 5 o'clock shadow, and a small amount of chest hair, which can be seen when using certain outfits. He also appears to be quite tall, and is considerably taller than characters like Salvatore and JD O'Toole. As GTA Liberty City Stories allows the player to change clothes, Toni can wear up to 16 different outfits , ranging from casual clothes to mascot costumes to luxury suits. His regular outfit consists of a dark brown jacket on top of a black buttoned up shirt, tan pants, and black shoes.
In GTA III , circa 2001, Toni's appearance has changed drastically; he has lighter brown hair with grey stripes and a much heavier build. He also wears a purple coat with a tie and dark tan dress pants. The drastic change in Toni's appearance between the two games is referenced in GTA Liberty City Stories , where several characters like his mother, Maria, and Salvatore criticize him for being too thin; Salvatore in particular comments about him not being fed well. As such, it is implied Toni took their advice and began eating more in the three year gap between the two games.
"Rip Toni" is to the left.
Victor "Vic" Vance is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
He is voiced by Dorian Missick in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories and by Armando Riesco in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
Victor Vance is a former U.S. soldier looking to earn money for his dysfunctional family, in particular for his brothers Lance and Pete . While stationed in Vice City , he is convinced by his superior sergeant, Jerry Martinez , to get involved in the drug trade to secure the money he needs, despite Vic's moral objection towards drugs. Eventually, Martinez betrays Victor and gets him dishonorably discharged from the army , prompting Vic to fully embrace the criminal lifestyle. He begins working for various criminals and gangs in Vice City's underworld and eventually builds his own empire, the Vance Crime Family , alongside Lance.
Victor and Lance's actions bring them into conflict with the Mendez Cartel , which Vic resolves by wiping out the Cartel and killing Martinez. He then decides to retire from his new criminal life and leaves Vice City with Lance. However, this "retirement" is short-lived, as the brothers return to selling drugs two years later and set up a deal with Tommy Vercetti , a member of the Forelli Crime Family . The deal is ambushed by mercenaries sent by drug lord Ricardo Diaz , who kill Victor and Tommy's guards, but Lance later manages to avenge his brother's death when he and Tommy murder Diaz.
Victor is the son of Janet Vance , the nephew of Enid Vance , and the brother of Lance and Pete Vance.
Much of Victor's life prior to the events of Vice City Stories is unknown. Victor's father came from the Dominican Republic and worked as a soldier, while Victor's mother, Janet Vance , was a white woman who showed little care or interest in Vic or his brothers, Lance and Pete . As their father's fate was unknown, and their mother was unfit to raise them, Vic and his brothers were raised by their aunt, Enid .
Pete suffers from asthma, prompting Vic, who mostly acted as a guardian for his brothers, to enlist in the United States Army in order to pay off the medical bills for the medicine Pete needed. He eventually rose to the rank of Corporal and got transferred to Vice City 's base of Fort Baxter .
Vic at Martinez' office.
Victor arrives at Fort Baxter , presenting himself at the office of his superior, Jerry Martinez , who asks him why he joined the army, to which Vic explains his difficult family problems. Jerry, understanding Vic's need for money, convinces him to pick up a package containing drugs from Martinez' associate. Taking Martinez's bike , Vic meets up with the man possessing the package, a dealer who owns a yacht. Aboard the yacht, as the dealer gives the package to Vic, a group of hitmen attack the yacht, destroying it. Vic survives and escapes back to the base, hiding the package under his bed after receiving a Pager message from Martinez.
Vic then returns to Martinez' office, sharing his worries about the drugs with his superior, only to be silenced by Jerry. Jerry sends Vic to Phil Cassidy , a drunken arms dealer who can sell weapons for them. Finding Phil at a depot in Viceport , Vic asks for Jerry's money. After they drive to the money's presumed location, Phil reveals that he does not have Jerry's money, as it was taken by the Cholos who took over Phil's house . Vic kills the Cholos, finds the money, and takes it back to Jerry.
Once again, Vic visits Jerry's office, where he sees him watching a pornographic film featuring Candy Suxxx . Jerry asks Vic to pick up his favorite prostitute, Mary , for him in Viceport . Jerry also says that he will take care of the drugs under Vic's bed while Vic does the job. Victor drives to Phil's place, where he is given a red Stinger . At Viceport, Vic finds Mona , Mary's friend, who tells him that Mary is at a party on Starfish Island . Vic finds Mary and takes her to the base, but not before killing a few men who had paid for Mary at the party. Unknown to him, Jerry had orchestrated a frame up, tagging him as the owner of the hidden drugs. When Vic returns to the base, he is confronted by Sergeant Peppah , who seemingly found the contraband. Further enraged by the presence of the prostitute, he dishonorably discharges Vic from the army, calling him a disgrace.
Vic meets up with a drunk Phil at the latter's place.
After being kicked out of the army, Vic receives a pager message from Phil, telling him that he has some work for him, as well as a place to live if he needs it. At Phil's place, a drunken Phil holds Vic at gunpoint, thinking Vic is robbing him. Once sober, Phil, wanting to kill Cholos, has Vic drive him across the city until he finds a Cholo and kills him. The two then return to Phil's depot.
On their second mission, Vic finds Phil lying at the depot, once again drunk. Phil reveals that the Cholos are planning to blow up his Boomshine liquor stored at The Big Package Storage Co. warehouse in Little Havana , which could destroy much of Vice City. The two drive to the warehouse, and when Phil opens the door, an explosion is triggered inside. Before the warehouse is completely destroyed, Victor uses a Forklift to move four cases of boomshine on to the back of Phil's Walton . Phil then drives away to find a safe place to store the boomshine.
On the next mission from Phil, Vic encounters Martinez at Phil's place, smoking alongside Phil. Jerry shows no remorse for having Vic kicked from the army. Vic and Phil leave to collect Jerry's weapons, which are aboard a truck. The duo, along with two thugs as a backup, steal the truck and bring it to Jerry.
Vic with Marty during the latter's second mission.
Following his first mission with Phil, Vic is sent by him to work under his brother in-law, Marty Jay Williams , leader of the infamous Trailer Park Mafia . Vic arrives at Marty's trailer, finding Marty's wife (and Phil's sister), Louise Cassidy-Williams , and Mary-Beth Williams , Marty's baby daughter. After Marty arrives (and threatens Louise), Vic introduces himself, and the pair leave to take care of Marty's business. During the ride to a Mal Viento store in Little Havana, Marty explains to Vic how his business ring works. At the store, Vic is ordered to kill the Cholos who tried to whack it. The duo arrive at a Cholo store, Verdi , and take it for themselves.
During the following missions, Marty orders Vic to steal three vehicles, defend Marty's business from the Cholos, and destroy their vans, killing Cholos at their brothel. Following the last mission, the Cholos want revenge against Marty, and decide to attack the prostitutes who work with him, but Vic manages to foil their plans.
Mary-Jo telling Vic that Marty has kidnapped Louise.
Since their first meeting, Vic developed sympathy for Marty's wife, Louise, seeing the amount of pain she is enduring from Marty. After Louise moves to her sister Mary-Jo 's place, Vic comes to console her, and the two begin hanging out a bit, competing against each other in a quad race. Later, Louise tells Vic that she wants to collect her belongings from her and Marty's trailer. At the trailer, Vic kills four members of Marty's gang, while Louise takes her belongings, as well as Marty's wallet. The two then escape the trailer park.
After the last mission with Louise, Vic later comes to her house, only to find a worried Mary-Jo telling him that Marty has kidnapped Louise, and plans to make her into a prostitute. Vic sets out to rescue Louise. After chasing Marty's car , he kills Marty and saves Louise . In order to lie low from Marty's gang, Vic and Louise use The Compound in Little Haiti as a safehouse.
Martinez' men about to attack Vic and Phil.
During his mess-ups with Marty, Vic goes to Phil's depot, finding Martinez talking to Phil, who is no longer trusting Jerry Martinez telling Phil to check out his merchandise in a warehouse in Little Haiti. Phil decides to do the job, hoping for more work and money, whilst Victor decides to go and help Phil in case Martinez tries to kill him. This is revealed to be the case, as Martinez' men ambush Vic and Phil at the warehouse, but they manage to escape from death.
Following this incident, Phil decides to hide from Martinez for a while, while Vic cuts his ties with his treacherous ex-superior, marking Martinez as an enemy.
Louise suggesting Vic to take over Marty's business.
With Marty dead, and with Louise's support, Victor decides to take over Marty's and his gang's businesses. After hiring a few henchmen, Vic and Louise attack Marty's loan sharking business, killing many of Marty's men, and taking over all of Marty's businesses. Following this, Vic starts to get power in the city's crimeworld, establishing his own gang, the Vance Crime Family .
Vic and Lance.
After making his first step as a gang boss, Vic receives a Pager message telling him to meet a family member at the airport, who will help Vic in building his own businesses. This relative turns to be Lance , Vic's brother, much to Vic's disappointment, who sees Lance as nothing but a troublemaker. After a conversation, the two brothers enter Vic's car, but are soon confronted by the Cholos, angry at Vic for previous clashes with the gang. The two manage to escape their attackers, though Lance crashes Vic's car. Vic then drives Lance to the latter's hotel.
Vic's new business are later set on fire by Marty's cousin as an act of revenge. Vic, along with Louise, takes a firetruck and drives to the flaming business, putting out the fire. Louise notices Marty's cousin, and Vic kills him. Vic later helps Louise in keeping her baby daughter from the welfare.
Vic meets Umberto for the first time.
After meeting Lance at the airport, Vic receives a Pager message from Umberto Robina , the leader of the Cuban gang in Vice City, who wants to work with him upon hearing he took over Marty's business. Vic agrees, but Umberto first wants to see if Vic has the "balls" to be a business partner. Vic is given a task to take a package from a Cuban while being chased by other Cubans. Victor succeeds picking up the package and takes it back to Umberto, forming an alliance between Vance and Robina.
Umberto's later missions for Vic involve the Cubans' war with the Cholos. First, Vic is ordered by Umberto to kill Cholos who are causing him much trouble around his neighborhood. Umberto also informs Vic that Marty had caused his business troubles. Later on, Vic finds a crying Umberto, who is afraid that his father, Alberto , will be killed by the Cholos as he went to see wrestling. Vic, finding Alberto safe, drives him to his Café Robina , whilst avoiding the Cholos.
Enraged by the Cholos' attempt on his father, Umberto decides to finish the Cholos once and for all. Vic and the Cubans arrive at a warehouse belong to the Cholos, stealing the weapons located there, and leaving a "gift" containing explosives. The warehouse is blown up, killing many of the Cholos, including their leader. Following this event, the Cholos are destroyed, with Vic and Umberto taking over their business.
Lance finds a new associate called Bryan Forbes , who will tell him about any drugs shipments sailing into the city. Driving to King Knut's Burger bar, Lance phones Forbes on the drugs, until three robbers attempt to rob the bar. Vic and Lance escape as police officers who have arrived at the scene think they are the robbers. Escaping to Port Authority Building, Vic and Lance take Forbes' car. Lance then drives the car to Forbes' place.
Vic is introduced to Forbes at the latter's apartment, being in the middle of a conversation with Lance. The three, wanting to take a van full with drugs whilst not being noticed by the police, take a second van used as a decoy to fool the officers. After Lance and Forbes bring the van to its destination, Vic manages to escape from the police.
Forbes being held by Vic and Lance.
Later, Lance finds out that Forbes was actually an undercover agent for the DEA. Lance holds Bryan at a gunpoint, but Forbes manages to escape and get into a car, driving away from the Vance brothers. However, Vic and Lance chase and capture him, taking him to a building in Little Haiti to get more information.
Tied up, Forbes tells them on a dealer who can give them both money and drugs, but believes only in one-on-one meetings, so Lance will attempt the deal while Vic will watch over the scene from a nearby building. The deal, held on the docks, is revealed to be a trap, with the dealer knocking out Lance and kidnapping him. Vic chases him, saving Lance, and killing the dealer and his associates, the Sharks .
Vic and Lance return to the place where Bryan is held, wanting information on the drugs shipments. Forbes tells them he has a contact at the White Stallionz ' bar. This turns out to be another trap, and Vic and Lance find themselves surrounded by homosexual white supremacist Bikers. After escaping the bar, killing several bikers in the process, and returning to the place where Forbes is held, Vic and Lance notice him attempting to escape. They chase him down and kill him, obtaining his ID.
The Vance brothers' mother, Janet, appears before Vic and Lance.
Vic storms into Lance's hotel apartment, throwing his phone on the floor and threatening Lance for making trouble. Janet Vance , Vic's and Lance's mother, enters the apartment, alongside her boyfriend Javier , saying that she is clean from drugs, but the two brothers just ignore her. Lance tells Victor of some "files" about the big shipment coming to the city at the Escobar International Airport . After getting there, they find out that the "files" were sold already. Vic and Lance discover the buyer and kill him, obtaining the files.
Vic taunting Martinez, after stealing his drug shipment.
Lance later finds out that the shipment belongs to Jerry Martinez. The two decide to steal the shipment form Martinez for themselves. At the docks in Little Haiti, Vic and Lance kill some of Jerry's men, stealing the two Barracks OLs containing the cocaine , and avoiding Jerry's men. On the bridge to Washington Beach , the two are attacked by Martinez, who's in a Hunter , firing missiles at them. The two manage to lose Martinez thanks to the police, and drive the drugs into a new safehouse.
Back at the new safehouse, Vic phones Martinez, taunting him. Martinez reveals that the cocaine they stole belonged to Diego and Armando Mendez , and that they will kill anyone who is involved with their drugs, including Vic and Martinez himself. Lance tells Vic he has a buyer who will pay for the drugs, and with the money the Mendez brothers will be unable to touch them. Driving to the North Point Mall in Vice Point , Vic and Lance meet Spitz , the buyer, who needs a stuntman to finish a horror movie for him inside the mall. Vic decides to do the stunts while Spitz and Lance do their drug trade. Once finished Vic and Lance both drive over to Lance's apartment in Ocean Beach to pick up the rest of the drugs but upon arriving they find out that their mother and her boyfriend have taken all the drugs.
After helping Spitz with the stunts of his film, Spitz sends Vic a message telling him to go to someone called Reni at the InterGlobal Films studios. At the studios, Vic meets Reni Wassulmaier , a transsexual film director, and his assistant Frankie . As Reni tries to flirt with Vic, Frankie enters the room, telling them that their stunt man quit because of Reni touching his buttocks. Vic agrees to replace the stuntman and Reni films his stunts. Vic then begins to work with Reni.
As the cocaine is gone with their mother, Lance becomes worried of what will happen to him and Vic when the Mendez brothers will find out who stole their cocaine. After Vic argued with Lance, they get a phone telling them that the Mendez brothers have launched an assault on their businesses. Vic and Lance, with help from their gang, manage to kill every Mendez goon, protecting their business.
Lance and Vic at the Mendez mansion.
Vic and Lance are later taken to Armando and Diego, at the brothers' mansion on Prawn Island . Armando suggest that the Vance brothers will work together with him and Diego, which would spare Vic and Lance from death. Having no other option, Vic and Lance begin to work for the Mendez Cartel . Armando asks them who has been ripping them off, with Lance answering it was Martinez. Armando demands from Vic and Lance a proof immediately.
Knowing that Martinez is turning states, Lance convinces Vic to take photos of Martinez speaking with the police. After taking the photos, Vic and Lance use them along with Forbes' ID to make it look like Martinez was an undercover agent. Having the "proof", Vic begins to work for Armando. Armando's first mission for Vic is to take care of Bikers who have not paid their long-time debts for Mendez' gang. At Vice Point , Vic kills the bikers, finishing off even the ones who tried to escape.
In the second mission, Vic enters the mansion, finding Diego who does not want to talk with him. Armando appears and tells Vic to get rid of two rival dealers at Ocean Beach . Vic kills the first one with no effort, and then finds a heavily guarded second one, by his prostitutes . He and his bodyguards are also killed by Vic.
Armando later tells Vic that Diego has told the police that the stolen cocaine belongs to Vic. In order to save himself from being arrested, Vic takes a Maverick with a magnet and flies towards the containers, taking them away and dropping them in different locations.
After his jobs for the Mendez brothers, Vic goes to see Lance, finding out that Lance's apartment has been bugged by the DEA. Vic and Lance set to destroy police antennas, leaving the DEA without any way or evidence to arrest the two Vance brothers.
After his jobs for the Mendez brothers, Vic returns to work with Reni. Reni first asks Vic to help an associate, Gonzalez , in protecting his drugs whilst he moves the drugs to Viceport. At Downtown , Vic meets Gonzalez, who informs him that they need to move the drugs , which belong to his boss, Juan Cortez . Vic protects Gonzalez and the drugs from attacking boats belonging to the Sharks , leading them to safety.
Reni asking Vic to protect Barry and Phil Collins.
Reni later asks Vic to protect Barry Mickelthwaite and his client, famous singer Phil Collins . It is revealed that Giorgio Forelli had given Barry $3 million, but now wants his money back. The Forellis attack Barry and Phil , attempting to assassinate the latter, but Vic manages to kill the Forelli hitmen and drive the two to safety, to their hotel on Ocean Beach .
Reni also asks Vic to help him/her in a commercial making for cheese, asking him to be a stuntman using a Jetski .
Phil's concert in the Hyman Memorial Stadium in Downtown is about to be started in a few days, but he fears about entering the stadium due to him being targeted by the Forellis. Vic is sent by Reni and Barry to clean the stadium of hitmen . After Vic kills every hitman in the area, Phil arrives at the stadium.
After his jobs with Reni, Vic begins to help Gonzalez on a couple of missions. Vic meets Gonzalez at the golf range in Leaf Links , who asks Vic if he knows how to play golf. Gonzalez tells Vic that if he can play golf, then they can start a business relationship. During the golf game , Vic gets a perfect score by hitting a tied man who betrayed Gonzalez, leading Gonzalez to praise him, starting a new, short partnership between them.
Later, Gonzalez tells Vic to take drugs from a lockup at Ocean Beach and bring them to a deal at Washington Beach. Taking the van full of drugs, Vic drives to the meeting place, only to be ambushed by drug dealers. Going to a pay-phone, Vic, drugged, calls to Gonzalez, telling him the situation. Furious, Gonzalez orders Vic to take back the drugs from the thieves and kill them. Vic brings back the van with drugs to Gonzalez. Gonzalez thanks him for bringing back the drugs, but due to Vic's partial failure and some of the dealers being enemies, Gonzalez cuts his ties with him.
Coming to Lance's apartment, after a brief talk, Vic asks Lance who stole their drugs . Lance blames the theft on the Bikers . Using a Maverick , Vic flies over Starfish Island , where the Bikers are riding. After a shootout over Downtown, Lance falls from the helicopter while Vic bails out as the helicopter is destroyed. After killing all the bikers, Vic finds Lance safe and alive, who takes a Chopper for himself and rides away on a ramp.
Vic arrives again in Lance's apartment, finding out he is using the cocaine for himself. Louise, also high, comes out from the kitchen, much to Vic's shock. After a loud argument, Lance, annoyed by the idea that Vic treats him like a child, runs out to his helicopter and threatens that he will spread all the cocaine over the city. Vic drives a hovercraft and manages to pick up all the packages .
Vic later finds a half-asleep Lance who does not remember what he has done. Louise calls Lance's apartment, telling Vic that Martinez' men were following her and she is hiding behind a burger bar in Little Haiti. Vic finds her, kills Martinez' men, and takes her to a hospital.
Vic meets Diaz.
Vic begins to work for drug baron Ricardo Diaz , who is aware of Gonzalez' deal. Diaz sends Vic and Lance to steal Gonzalez' shipment . Vic and Lance head to The Pole Position Club in Ocean Beach . One of Gonzalez' goons comes out of the strip club and drives off in a sports car parked there and they decide to follow him. Vic follows him until eventually finding and stealing a speedboat loaded with the drugs, taking it back to Diaz.
Vic and Diaz at the latter's mansion .
Later, Diaz made a deal with the DEA , and in exchange for the drugs he will give to the agency, they will give him heavy weapons. Vic and some of Diaz' men go to the meeting point in Downtown. Gonzalez' men attack them, killing Vic's henchmen, but Vic manages to kill them and clear the meeting place before the DEA agents arrive. After getting the truck with the weapons, Vic heads back to Diaz' mansion.
Diaz later captures Gonzalez, wanting him to work for and tell Diaz on every shipment coming into Vice City. As Gonzalez has to fly away from the city with the Colonel's drugs but is threatened to be killed by the Sharks, Vic serves as a bodyguard for him, watching over as Gonzalez first drives a truck to the airport, and then gets on his plane away from the Sharks.
Armando and Diego offering Vic and Lance their freedom in exchange for their assets.
Vic and Lance meet with the Mendez brothers at their mansion. The Mendez brothers offer Vic and Lance their freedom, only if they will leave the city and hand over their assets to the Cartel. Vic and Lance refuse, and are soon attacked and knocked out by Mendez bodyguards.
The two are taken, weaponless, to an area in Viceport and are placed beside three oil tankers. Mendez goons that were ordered to finish them off aim at the Vance brothers, but they miss and die due to a tanker exploding from being shot. After escaping, Vic and Lance split up, knowing now that they are enemies of the Mendez Cartel . Following the incident, Vic cuts all of his ties with the Mendez brothers.
As the Mendez brothers launch an attack on Vic's and Lance's business empire, Lance sets a counter attack. The two get support from Phil Cassidy , and Umberto and his Cubans . Vic and his allies manage to protect their business empire from the attacking Mendez goons. After Vic and Lance cleared their area from the Mendez goons, Umberto and Phil send a Pager message to Lance, saying that they too cleaned the businesses from the Mendez brothers.
After the betrayal of Mendez, Vic is informed by Lance that Martinez is attempting to kidnap Louise, who is about to come out of the hospital. After picking up Louise, Lance sends him a message telling him he is stuck in a burning building. Taking a helicopter on the hospital's roof, Vic and Louise set to rescue Lance. Lance reveals he was attacked by Martinez's goons who stole his money. After Lance takes back his money from the dead goons, he leaves Vic, who takes Louise back to her sister 's house.
Vic returns to Diaz' mansion, finding out that Lance has borrowed money from Diaz. Outside the mansion, one of his men tells him that Lance ordered a high-tech gear near to Mendez' mansion. Vic drives to find a van with a gear to control Armando's robotic servant , Domestobot . Controling the robot, Vic tries to find the Mendez brothers' safe, containing the Cartel's money. After doing a few tasks for Armando, Vic finds the safe and uses the robot's lighter to set it on fire. An angry Armando pulls out a pistol and destroys the robot.
Reni explaining his situation with Diego Mendez to Vic .
Later, Reni wants to get his fourth sex change, but cannot get out of his studio into the hospital because Diego Mendez is angry at him for introducing Vic to Diaz. Vic helps Reni by killing the Mendez hitmen after them and then drives him to the hospital.
After Reni has received his fourth sex change, becoming a woman again, Vic enters the hospital, finding her, Phil Collins, and Barry talking. Because she is wanted dead by Diego Mendez, Vic drives her to Escobar International Airport, protecting her from Diego's hitmen in the process.
After taking Reni to the airport, Vic helps Barry in protecting Phil during his concert at the Hyman Memorial Stadium. After defending Phil's concert out and in the stadium, killing any Forelli hitman he encounters, Vic is thanked by Phil, who also jokingly asks him if he wants to replace Barry as Phil's manager. Vic is also given an option to buy a ticket and see Phil's performance.
Vic and Louise, moments before her death.
Vic arrives in Lance's apartment, looking for Louise, but only finds Lance. The two are informed by Mary-Jo that Armando Mendez has kidnapped Louise and taken her to his mansion . Vic and Lance follow Mendez goons who have destroyed Lance's Infernus . Despite many attacks from the Mendez goons, they manage to arrive at the mansion. An enraged Lance rushes to the mansion to avenge his car, leaving Vic alone to fight Armando's men.
Entering the mansion, Vic confronts Armando, who tells Vic that both Lance and Louise are dead. Vic fights Armando, who wields a Flamethrower . Vic manages to kill Armando and makes his way to Armando's office, finding Lance and a badly-injured Louise. In their last moments together, Louise says that her and Vic's relationship could have been special, leading Vic to say that it was already special. Louise tells Vic to make sure that her daughter will be under her sister 's care, before dying. Vic and Lance then leave the mansion.
After Armando's death, Vic is informed by Diaz that Diego is hiding at the Mendez Compound in Downtown, which can be impossible to enter. Diaz also informs that a new Hunter that has been just delivered to Fort Baxter , which can be used as an aerial attack on Mendez' building. Going to Phil's warehouse, he finds a drunk Phil mourning Louise's death. With Phil's help, Vic enters the base, finding the Hunter and taking it to Diaz.
Obtaining the attack helicopter, Vic leaves Diaz' mansion to finish off both Diego Mendez and Jerry Martinez. Vic flies to the Mendez Compound after exchanging some last words with Diaz. Vic attacks the building's upper floors, but his helicopter is soon destroyed by a Rocket Launcher. Vic enters the building, clearing his way of Mendez goons. Vic notices Diego and chases him to the highest floor. On the top floor, Vic is confronted by both Diego and Martinez. After a shootout with Martinez and Mendez, Vic manages to kill both men, finally avenging Louise.
Vic looking at Lance's helicopter, after killing Jerry and Diego.
After killing Jerry and Diego, Vic sees Lance arriving on a helicopter, attempting to help Vic in the gunfight Vic already finished. Lance offers Victor twenty kilos of cocaine for a deal ahead. However, Victor expresses that he is not interested in dealing with narcotics any more, but suggests sending the money for Pete's medical treatment. The two embrace as they are finally over their problems, and fly away from the building, deciding to lay low for a while and get out of town.
After the events of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Vic and Lance decided to stay low, away from the criminal life; however, the pair began to work again by 1986.
It is implied by a few unused lines from the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City introduction mission In The Beginning... that the brothers stashed the twenty kilos of cocaine in a farm in Panama , but it is unknown if this statement is still considered canon, although it is still implied during the final cutscene of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
Victor Vance in 1986, moments before his death.
In 1986 , Lance and Vic set up a deal with the Forelli Crime Family , apparently with the help of Colonel Cortez . [ 5 ] Vic and Lance arrive by helicopter to Vice City's docks with twenty kilos of cocaine, while Forelli associates Tommy Vercetti , Harry , and Lee arrive with $2,000,000, driven by Ken Rosenberg . Vic leaves the helicopter, wielding cases full of cocaine, whilst Tommy and his associate approach him with the cases of money.
As the two groups are about to exchange their goods, a small group of hitmen arrives and shoots at them, killing Vic, Harry and Lee, whilst Tommy and Ken drive off and Lance flies away from the scene.
After Vic's death and the failure of the drug deal, Lance, who survived the ambush, works with Tommy, one of the survivors from the Forelli side, to find and kill the man responsible for stealing the drugs and the Forellis' money from the deal.
Lance, aided by Tommy Vercetti , prepares to kill Diaz, the man behind Vic's death.
With the help of Colonel Cortez , the two find out that Ricardo Diaz, the same man who employed Vic and Lance two years ago, was the one who called an ambush on the deal. The drug deal location was leaked by Cortez' right-hand man Gonzalez, as part of a previous deal with Diaz. Cortez eventually discovers the betrayal, and Gonzalez is tracked down and murdered by Tommy Vercetti for ruining the drug deal. After working for Diaz to be sure of his involvement, Lance loses his temper and attacks one of Diaz' fronts, but is captured by Diaz's men, forcing Tommy to rescue him.
With any chances of a sneak attack ruined by Lance's actions, he and Tommy decide to openly attack Diaz' mansion, armed with powerful Colt Model 733 rifles. The duo wipe out Diaz's gang, confront Diaz, who is armed with an MP5 , and defeat him. As Diaz lays on his mansion's floor, Lance and Tommy approach him, with Lance claiming he's doing this for his brother. Lance, aided by Tommy, then executes the drug baron, avenging Vic's death.
Victor during his time in the army.
Victor is a tough and sometimes strict person when it comes to the crimes he unwillingly commits. Vic is also shown to be a short-tempered man, easily becoming provoked upon watching the foolish actions made by other characters, most notably his brother Lance, and is more rational than his easy-going, cheerful, yet equally short-tempered brother. Despite being involved in drug smuggling, Vic has shown a dislike for them, believing that they destroy people's lives, and does not willingly use them recreationally, much like Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ' protagonist Carl Johnson .
While he can be a closed and cold man to his rivals and enemies, Vic has great care for his friends and family, putting them above all of his needs. After developing romantic feelings toward Louise, Vic starts to look after her and protect her even though they only knew each other briefly. Vic also quickly develops close friendships with people such as Phil Cassidy, Umberto Robina, and Reni, all of whom assist Vic in his battles against Martinez and the Mendez brothers. Whilst reluctant to do so, Vic shows how much he cares for Lance and always assists him when needed, though he frequently becomes annoyed by Lance's reckless and irresponsible behavior. Vic's care for his brother Pete is also shown, as he joined the army to raise money to pay for Pete's medical bills.
Although his chronologically later appearance in Vice City is very brief, Vic is far from the reluctant drug dealer that he used to be two years ago. He immersed in his status as the drug kingpin of the city, and is more than eager to strike the deal with the Forellis. Despite his death, Vic's legacy lives on through his brother Lance and, to an extent, his brother's associate Tommy Vercetti , whose action has reshaped the city's underworld much like he once did.
Vic's appearance in GTA Vice City Stories , wearing the "Hired Muscle" outfit.
In GTA Vice City Stories , circa 1984, Vic is of a muscular build and has a dark skin tone. He has brown eyes and a shaved head, although game artwork shows him with short black hair. By default, Vic wears a blue polo shirt, a black wristwatch, stone-washed jeans, and white sneakers. However, his apparel can be changed throughout the game. Vic also has a small degree of facial hair and chest hair, which can be seen with certain outfits.
Vic appears to be quite short, as during the mission The Bum Deal one of the bikers seems to refer to Vic as "the little one". He is also noticeably shorter than his brother Lance, as seen in the opening cutscene for Jive Drive .
As GTA Vice City Stories allows the player to change clothes, Vic can wear up to fourteen different outfits , ranging from casual clothing, to gang-affiliated and luxury suits. As a soldier in the army, Vic sometimes wears military-themed clothing, which consists of a beige t-shirt, camouflage pants, dog tags and black army boots.
In GTA Vice City , circa 1986, Vic's appearance changes drastically, as two years have passed since the events of GTA Vice City Stories . He looks older and seems to have lost his muscular build, judging by his facial structure, although he remains with a somewhat slim body shape. He has dark, short, receding hair and has a thicker mustache with poorly shaven beard. His eyes might still be brown, but brighter, although they look more orange. He wears an orange Hawaiian shirt, unbuttoned from the top to reveal chest hair with a silver necklace. He also wears beige pants with white sneakers (However, in The Definitive Edition , the sneakers are blue and white).
During GTA Vice City Stories , Victor speaks with a general American accent. In GTA Vice City , however, Vic has a very thick Colombian/Mexican accent.
Being a playable character, Vic's actions are made by the player. Similar to both past and future protagonists, Victor is capable with any type of weapon he wields, such as firearms, explosives, and melee weapons.
He is highly skilled in hand-to-hand combat as he's able to grab opponents, attack them repeatedly or throw them far away and is even able to snap people's necks. All of this is probably due to his military training.
Victor can also drive different types of vehicles, ranging from motorcycles and four-wheeled cars to boats , helicopters , and fixed-wing aircrafts .
Vic's Stinger next to a female pedestrian .
Being the main playable character of GTA Vice City Stories , Vic can drive every vehicle found in the game. However, there are a few vehicles that truly belong to him throughout the game's storyline.
Comparison between Lance Vance and the original Victor Vance in GTA Vice City .
"Vict♥r" is in the top left; Rip Vic in the center.
Vic is said to be 28 years old in 1984 in the BradyGames guide officially endorsed by Rockstar Games .
Jonathan "Johnny" Klebitz is a character in the Grand Theft Auto series. He appears as a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Ballad of Gay Tony , the protagonist of The Lost and Damned , a minor character in Grand Theft Auto V , and makes a posthumous cameo appearance in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of the San Andreas Mercenaries update.
He is voiced by Scott Hill .
Johnny was the vice president of The Lost MC , serving as acting president while president Billy Grey was in rehab following his arrest in 2008 . As acting president, Johnny maintained a relative peace between The Lost and the gang's rivals, The Angels of Death , though the truce is quickly broken following Billy's release later that same year. Billy's leadership creates many problems for The Lost, which Johnny attempts to solve by assisting both fellow gang members and other criminals in Liberty City .
Johnny and Billy's conflicting views on how the gang should be run lead to arguments between the two and their respective supporters, which eventually escalate into a civil war among The Lost. After Billy is arrested again during a failed attempt to set Johnny up, the latter becomes the official president of The Lost and ends the war. However, his efforts to save the gang prove ultimately fruitless, as a conflict with Pegorino Family capo Ray Boccino leads to The Lost losing most of their members and clubhouse .
By 2013 , during the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Johnny and the remaining members of The Lost have relocated to Blaine County , San Andreas , where the gang was able to rebuild most of its manpower and entered a working business relationship with Trevor Philips . However, this partnership comes to an end after Johnny is murdered by Trevor when he confronts him about Trevor having sex with Johnny's on/off girlfriend, Ashley Butler . As of 2023 , in Grand Theft Auto Online , his ghost haunts the Sandy Shores Beach Front Recreation Area during seasonal Halloween events.
Johnny Klebitz was born c. c. circa 1974 in Acter , Alderney , to a Jewish family. He has an older brother, Michael Klebitz , who used to be friends with Billy Grey when Johnny was 10 . Michael is a soldier serving in Iraq , a law-abiding citizen, and criticizes Johnny's biker lifestyle and criminal association with Billy. Johnny tells Clay Simons during one of their friendship hangouts that he too wanted to join the Army for much of his childhood, but decided against it when he became disillusioned with American foreign policy as a teenager.
According to Billy, it was him who initiated a young Johnny into The Lost MC. Johnny's criminal record shows rigorous activity between 1991 and 1994 , when Johnny would have been between 17 and 20. He was put in prison soon after, and had a parole violation in 2000 , meaning he did up to six years. At one point, Johnny tells a friend of Thomas Stubbs that he has not had an annual salary since he "punched out license plates for a year in the joint". During Off Route , when driving the Prison Bus , Johnny compares it to "driving an eighteen-wheeler", suggesting that he may have experience of truck driving. One of the patches on Johnny's jacket reads " I Rode Mine to Los Santos in 2004. ". Among his many scars, it has also been implied that he is weak or even blind in one eye; when talking to Clay Simons , he says, "Oh. I should use my good eye.". Also, during a conversation with Billy in Clean and Serene , Johnny states that he weighs 230 lbs.
Johnny, unlike Billy, actually cares about business and goes to great lengths to keep the club running, but is quick to shut down anyone who is wrong or disobeys him. Alongside his best friend Jim Fitzgerald , Johnny seems to care the most about The Lost out of everyone in the gang. Johnny is also much more headstrong and sensible than most of the bikers.
Though Johnny comes across as intimidating, various moments throughout the story show that he is not as malicious as he is sometimes portrayed. Johnny and Ashley Butler were formerly in a relationship, which he ended due to her affair with Billy, as well as her drug addiction, which Johnny believes ruined her life. Despite this, he is shown to still care deeply about Ashley and is willing to do anything to protect her, such as when he immediately dropped what he was doing to aid her in after receiving a phone call from her in the mission Coming Down . Johnny also shows sympathy toward Roman Bellic , a complete stranger, even asking the Russians to go easy on him during the mission Roman's Holiday , despite having no real choice in the kidnapping, as it was the only way to pay off Ashley's debt to Dimitri Rascalov . In another instance, Johnny even mildly rebukes Billy after the latter brutally breaks Pretty Boy 's jaw with a mallet, indicating that he does not take great pleasure in inflicting serious harm on others.
In 2008, Billy is arrested for drug distribution and placed in a court-ordered rehab. As acting president of The Lost, Johnny manages to secure a truce with gang's longtime rivals, the Angels of Death, after selling Billy's bike . Immediately after Billy gets out of rehab , he becomes angry with Johnny for losing his bike, and leads The Lost, including Johnny, in an attack on the Angels to recover it. This creates tension between the two gangs, which quickly escalates into a new war between The Lost and the Angels of Death.
Johnny grows frustrated with Billy after the latter returns to his old habits and throws several parties at The Lost clubhouse to celebrate his release instead of focusing on how to better run the gang and raise money. While being visited by part-time lawyer, part-time biker Dave Grossman , Johnny has a sit-down with Billy to discuss the growing tension between them. Just as they start agreeing with each other's points of view, Billy is informed of several members of The Lost being jumped by the Angels of Death. Johnny joins Billy and other bikers to rescue the attacked Lost members, after which Billy is informed of the death of Jason Michaels , who was killed by an Eastern European in Broker . Billy manipulates the situation by blaming the Angels of Death, and rallies The Lost to attack their clubhouse . During the attack, Billy finds two duffel bags full of heroin and steals the drugs with the intention of selling them. This creates even more tension between him and Johnny.
Billy later asks Johnny to meet with Elizabeta Torres , who found a buyer for the stolen heroin. Joined by Elizabeta's associates Niko Bellic and Playboy X , Johnny attempts to sell the heroin, but the deal is revealed to be an LCPD sting operation. After some commotion, Johnny is able to escape with the heroin. Shortly after, Billy sends Johnny to meet with Congressman Thomas Stubbs III to help him out with some matters, believing Stubbs' friendship will prove useful to The Lost in the near future.
Eventually, The Lost find that the stolen heroin belonged to the Triads , and Johnny and Jim advise to return it to avoid another conflict. After some debating, Billy and The Lost's secretary, Brian Jeremy , agree with them, but although they accompany them to the deal's location , they refuse to partake in the exchange, electing to stand guard. Unbeknownst to Johnny and Jim, Billy met with the Triads' representative earlier and told him that they can kill the pair on sight, having become angry with their disloyalty to him. As soon as Johnny and Jim meet with the Triads, they are attacked, forcing them to abandon the heroin and escape. During the commotion, Billy attempts to abandon the pair, but crashes his bike and is arrested by the LCPD, while furiously yelling that Johnny set him up.
Following this incident, Johnny becomes the official president of The Lost, but finds his leadership being challenged by Brian, who blames Johnny for Billy's arrest and has formed his own faction of loyalists within the gang. After some failed peace negotiations , Johnny's faction and Brian's faction go to war, which eventually comes to an end after Ray Boccino, who regularly does deals with The Lost and wishes to resume business, betrays Brian by revealing his hideout , allowing Johnny to go there and deal with him .
During this time, Jim introduces Johnny to Malc and DeSean of the Uptown Riders , who he later finds himself paired with during a few jobs for Elizabeta. Ashley also contacts Johnny for assistance, as she is indebted to Dimitri Rascalov's men. A reluctant Johnny agrees to help, and kidnaps Roman Bellic with Malc's help, delivering him to a warehouse in Bohan as instructed.
Eventually, Boccino decides to call in the favor Johnny owes him, and reaches out to him through Ashley. Boccino instructs Johnny to steal a shipment of diamonds about to be bought by Tony Prince , which he does successfully, before hiding them in trash bags so that Boccino's men can retrieve them after the heat goes down. Once the diamonds are recovered, Boccino sends Johnny to accompany Niko Bellic to The Libertonian so that they can sell them to the Jewish Mob , offering to split the profit 50/50. However, the deal is ambushed by Luis Lopez , and in the confusion, Johnny decides to betray Boccino and escape with the money , which he delivers to Jim. Furious upon learning of this, Boccino has Jim captured and tortured before using his phone to lure Johnny to Drusilla's . The pair manage to escape and split up, but after dealing with hitmen sent by Boccino, Johnny is informed by Ashley that Jim was killed (secretly by Niko).
Following this loss, Thomas Stubbs visits Johnny at the clubhouse and warns him to stay away from Boccino, who is being monitored by the feds and will likely be dead or in jail within a month or so . Stubbs also reveals that Billy plans to rat out Johnny and other members of The Lost to enter witness protection, prompting Johnny to rally the gang to storm the Alderney State Correctional Facility and silence Billy. Although the assault leaves many Lost members dead, Johnny is able to execute Billy before he and the survivors return to the clubhouse. Finding it ransacked by Boccino's men, Johnny and the remaining Lost members conclude that their Alderney chapter is over and decide to burn down the clubhouse, watching it burn from outside.
After the completion of The Lost and Damned , Johnny's life is in turmoil. Billy's betrayal has caused the Alderney chapter of The Lost to be left in ruins, with the only remaining members being Terry Thorpe , Clay Simons, Angus Martin , and Johnny himself. Johnny stops contacting Ashley after she asks him to give her $ 40, which Johnny declines, knowing she would use the money to buy more drugs. Johnny even confesses to Angus that he doesn't see any good in Ashley other than the need for her to, in his words, "fuck up everything around her". Johnny also cuts his ties with Thomas Stubbs, declining his offer to work for him and sarcastically wishing him good luck in his corrupt career.
In a phone call he makes to Angus, Johnny reveals his intentions to distance himself from The Lost and the criminal lifestyle for the time being, as he wants to focus on sending money to Jim's widow and child – which is likely the $2 million he stole from the botched diamond deal.
At some point between 2008 and 2013, Johnny returned to his criminal ways and he, Terry, Clay, Ashley and several other members of The Lost relocated to Blaine County, San Andreas, where they set up a new chapter. The gang then became heavily involved in drugs and arms trading. Johnny also quickly became addicted to meth – most likely due to Ashley's influence, who he got back together with – making him much thinner and psychologically unstable.
During this period, The Lost became affiliated with Trevor Philips, who ran a trading business in Blaine County. The relationship between them seemed to be shaky however, as Trevor frequently sent a hitman to steal goods from The Lost and often had sex with Ashley, much to Johnny's chagrin.
While Johnny does not make any physical appearances in Grand Theft Auto Online , he is mentioned by Trevor's business partner Ron Jakowski in the mission Romance Isn't Dead .
In autumn 2013, Johnny finally decides to confront Trevor after the latter had sex with Ashley once again. Unfortunately for him, Trevor just found out that his former friend, Michael Townley , is still alive, and – upon being called a motherfucker, which is already a triggerpoint – snaps, throwing Johnny to the ground, smashing a Pißwasser beer bottle against his face, and repeatedly stomping on his head as Ron Jakowski, Wade Hebert , and Ashley all watch in horror. Trevor then leaves the scene with Ron and Wade to deal with the rest of The Lost chapter, leaving Ashley to mourn over Johnny's dead body.
Johnny is later briefly mentioned on the second bail bond , in a conversation between Trevor and the bounty target, Larry Tupper . Larry mentions he heard about what happened to Johnny.
He is also mentioned by the owner of the Sandy Shores Ammu-Nation branch owner, Melvin , stating that Johnny wasn't that bad of a guy, but then Trevor tells Melvin that he has a bit of Johnny on his foot if he is "pining for a reunion" with him, much to Melvin's horror.
In the mission Friends Reunited , Johnny and Billy Grey are mentioned by members at Stab City. One says "Johnny K wasn't fit for the Lost MC", and goes on to say that "whatever they said about him snitching […] was bullshit".
Johnny Klebitz's ghost.
Johnny Klebitz haunting Trevor's former home.
In October 2023 , Johnny appears as one of the ten ghosts to be photographed in Blaine County for the Ghosts Exposed documentary series team during the Halloween event, as part of the continuation of the San Andreas Mercenaries update. He appears in his place of death, in front of Trevor's former home in Sandy Shores , near the Sandy Shores Beach Front Recreation Area sign.
His appearance as a ghost is similar to that of Jolene Cranley-Evans ' ghost – floating in mid-air, with invisible hands and feet, featuring glowing eyes and slowed voice with an echo effect. Some of his lines used while confronting Trevor Philips are used by his ghost, including a slowed version of The Lost and Damned ending theme song.
Johnny's ghost does not play a significant role in GTA Online 's story whatsoever, appearing only as a form of collectible .
Voice Lines:
Johnny is relaxed and laid back most of the time. He wants to think all plans and actions through and doesn't want to make any risky decisions. He is very easily angered and will become aggressive and violent when provoked. He shows some hesitation about killing people whom he thinks don't deserve it, and also has his limit about killing. He is reluctant to kill Brian Jeremy and Billy Grey because he considered them his "brothers" in the past, even if they betrayed and tried to kill him. On one occasion, he also asks Elizabeta if killing so many people on a job was really necessary. Overall, Johnny's attitude about murder seems to be that he is capable of doing so in cold blood, but believes that the murder should be justified.
Johnny will always carry out orders given to him even if he disagrees with them, but will vent his frustration when doing so. Over the course of Clean and Serene, Johnny claims that he has given up on faith and instead believes in religion. Johnny has an anti-war and anti-politics stance, claiming both exist to "make the fat cats fatter". Johnny has a strong disliking for cars, referring to them as "cages".
In terms of morality, Johnny is perhaps one of the most moral GTA protagonists, being one of the few to successfully leave behind the criminal lifestyle at the end of The Lost and Damned 's main storyline. He did so because the Alderney chapter of The Lost was essentially over, but also due to the guilt he felt for his role in Jim Fitzgerald's death, which led him to give most of his money to Jim's widow and child. However, he eventually relapsed into his criminal habits by the time the events of Grand Theft Auto V take place, and met his demise because of this, similarly to Victor Vance , who was killed in an ambushed drug deal after returning to dealing drugs with his brother Lance .
By 2013, Johnny has developed an out-of-control meth addiction and, as a result, has become mentally and physically weaker. Because of this, he is easily intimidated and overpowered by Trevor and seems to have lost most of his courage. Johnny's drug addiction is most likely a result of Ashley's influence, as the two got back together after Johnny previously cut ties with her because she refused to improve her life and fight her addiction.
Johnny has hazel eyes, dark blond buzzcut hair and a horseshoe moustache. Johnny has plenty of scars on his face that were gained most likely during many brutal fights, some of which include two scars on his right eyebrow and a scar on his left cheek. His nose is unusually crooked, likely due to a fight or an accident. Johnny has one weak eye, as when failing at air hockey or pool , he justifies it by saying, "Oh, I should use my good eye." Johnny also has many physical injuries from a few serious motorbike accidents. Many of those injuries he received are a broken nose and a lack of speed when walking, running, or sprinting. Johnny has a number of tattoos, such as a demonic face on the right side of his neck. He also wears a golden earring in his left ear; however, this is absent in GTA IV and GTA V .
Unlike Niko, who was much more slender in appearance, Johnny is a much more brawny, burly and heavily built character (possibly built up during his time in prison). During Clean and Serene, Johnny mentions that he weighs 230 lb. His clothing and basic appearance has changed drastically since Grand Theft Auto IV . In GTA IV , he does not wear his black jacket with the current Lost MC patch on the back. He, instead, wears a light brown vest with a darker Lost MC patch on the back, and beige pants with brown Hinterland boots. His skin is paler than in The Lost and Damned , and some of his scars and tattoos on his face are a bit more visible. He is also more slender. In The Ballad of Gay Tony , he looks exactly the same as in The Lost and Damned , although his vice president patch is still present during both Frosting on the Cake and Not So Fast . In Grand Theft Auto V , however, Johnny has become much thinner, his skin is paler and he has more visible scars on his face, a result of his methamphetamine addiction. His outfit is almost identical to that used in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony , with the exception of blue pants rather than gray.
Johnny is an extremely dirty and unhygienic character. He only ever wears his The Lost MC jacket and during his idle animations, he'll often sniff his underarms with a disgusted reaction from doing so. Stubbs himself mentioned Johnny's body odor, stating that he commits a "crime against hygiene" (this can be heard during a phone call in one of the Stubbs' Dirty Laundry side missions).
The following patches appear on Johnny's jacket:
1993 - Assault 1994 - Manslaughter
- Assumed control of the gang when its head, Billy Grey, had been incarcerated. - Exact nature of the relationship between Grey and Klebitz is unknown. - Unclear who will assume control of the gang when Grey is released from prison. - Under his command, the Lost OMG has been able to co-exist with their rivals the Angels of Death OMG in relative peace.
Johnny's primary mode of transportation was a customized LCC Hexer with a white and blue paintjob, a reference to his Jewish heritage (white and blue are the colours of the flag of Israel ). In the mission Shifting Weight , Johnny's bike is destroyed after its gas tank is shot with a pistol , but it reappears in full working order after the mission, suggesting it was repaired. In his appearances in Grand Theft Auto IV , Johnny rode a red Hellfury . It is unknown if Johnny still had his Hexer when he was living in Blaine County .
GTA IV- The Lost and Damned Trailer - Johnny Klebitz
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Luis Fernando Lopez is a supporting character appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Lost and Damned and the protagonist of The Ballad of Gay Tony . He is also mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is voiced by Mario D'Leon .
Luis is a former member of the Northwood Dominican Drug Dealers , whose life took a completely different turn after meeting "Gay" Tony Prince , a nightclub entrepreneur in Liberty City and the owner of Maisonette 9 and Hercules , who became his employer, business associate, and best friend. Luis is often the more rational and down to earth of the duo, regularly finding himself in difficult situations due to Tony's reckless actions, which he has to get them both out of. Although their friendship has been put to the test more than once, their loyalty to each other has prevailed time and time again, to the point they consider each other "family".
Luis Fernando Lopez was born in Liberty City c. c. circa 1983 to Adriana Yanira Lopez and an unnamed father . He is of Dominican descent. He has an older brother, Ernesto , and a younger sister, Leta .
Luis and his siblings were raised on Frankfort Avenue in Northwood , Algonquin . Their father, a U.S. Marine , abandoned the family while all of his children were still young. As such, Luis was raised solely by his mother, who also had a notable role in the upbringing of Luis' childhood (and current) best friends, Armando Torres and Henrique Bardas . He also grew up with Oscar and Alonso Gomez , Teddy Benavidez and Willy Valerio , older kids by three years, who ushered most of the neighborhood kids into dealing drugs.
During a drug war , Henrique mentions that Luis used to rap while Henrique "laid down" the beat. Henrique claims that Luis was a poor rapper because people used to laugh at him when he would rap. He was also scrawnier in those years, as Armando and Henrique recall. Henrique at one point reflects on the time the three of them stole liquor from Principal Fischer's office, and claims that detention in their school was almost as bad as a violent and painful death.
In 2000 , when Luis was 17, he was sent to juvenile hall because he shot and injured a teacher who "felt up" his sister. Armando and Henrique remember spending the summer of 1999 with Luis, meaning it happened during their next school year. Curiously, this does not appear on his criminal record. In 2001 , he was arrested again for grand theft auto. This likely coincides with him taking the blame for a crime committed by Armando and Henrique (neither of whom were caught) and going to prison. During this stint, about two years, he went from being very skinny to being quite muscular, building up his physique to avoid being attacked by fellow inmates. By this time, his brother and sister had both left Liberty City and started families. As a result, Luis became their mother's primary source of income.
Luis was arrested for a third time in 2003 , this time for assault, but avoided prison. This likely coincides with Luis being arrested alongside Oscar Gomez and Willy Valerio – the LCPD believed Luis was still involved with Gomez and Valerio for a few years, although the trio had separated by this time.
In 2005 , when Luis was 22, his life changed forever when he accepted a job from nightclub owner "Gay" Tony Prince as his bodyguard. The duo quickly built a mutual "father-son" bond. Luis cut all remaining ties with his old gang (except Armando and Henrique as friends), and paid his supposed last visit to an illegal cage fighting ring (though he would eventually return years later). By working for Tony, his life became much more positive, and while he lost respect from old friends who saw him as a yuppie, he was introduced to much more money and glamor. Tony once paid Luis to take helicopter-flying lessons for business purposes (as shown from his Higgins Helitours piloting certificate in his apartment, as well as the Club Management mission with Bruce Spade ), and advanced driving lessons.
In 2008 , Tony struggles to keep his clubs open and borrows money from several loan sharks across the city, including the Ancelotti Crime Family , only to end up severely in debt. When going to the bank to collect some money for Tony, Luis witnesses a robbery carried out by Niko Bellic , Patrick McReary , Derrick McReary and Michael Keane . Luis briefly talks with fellow hostage Eugene Reaper , who then pulls out a gun and shoots Michael, killing him almost instantly, before getting killed by Patrick and Derrick. Shortly after the robbery, Luis arrives at Tony's apartment , where he meets Ancelotti Family members Rocco Pelosi and Uncle Vince , who arrived to collect Tony's debts to the family's Don , Giovanni Ancelotti . At Tony's pleadings, Luis begins doing jobs for Rocco to pay off Tony's debt, though he quickly takes a dislike to Rocco.
During this time, Luis continues to visit his mother, who is very unsupportive of his current lifestyle and reguarly tries to convince him to go to college, but Luis nonetheless helps her with her financial problems, this time having to help her with a loan shark that has been giving her problems. He also meets with Armando and Henrique, assisting them on two drug deals , both of which go awry. However, he continues working with them to help build their drug empire .
Luis goes on to do jobs for both Yusuf Amir , a real estate developer interested in buying and franchising Tony's clubs, and Mori Kibbutz , another one of Tony's loaners. While Yusuf proves to be a genuine friend to Luis and they both help each other out on several occasions, Mori's self-centered attitude causes Luis to take a dislike to him. Eventually, Luis cuts ties with Mori after paying off Tony's debt to him, but befriends his younger brother Brucie , with whom he symphatizes because he is often bullied by Mori.
After several more jobs for Rocco, Luis learns that Tony and his boyfriend Evan Moss are planning to buy $ 2,000,000 worth of diamonds from a cook on the Platypus cargo ship in order to sell them at a higher price. He agrees to accompany them, but they are ambushed by members of The Lost MC led by Johnny Klebitz . Although Luis manages to kill all the bikers pursuing him and Tony, Johnny murders Evan and steals the diamonds, leaving Tony in even more debt. Fortunately, Tony later learns that the diamonds are to be exchanged in a deal at The Libertonian and sends Luis to retrieve them. Luis ambushes the deal between Niko Bellic, Johnny Klebitz and the Jewish Mob and successfully steals back the diamonds, before escaping from the pursuing police in Yusuf's golden Buzzard that he previously stole for him.
Later, Luis and Tony meet Ray Bulgarin at Maisonette 9, who offers to help with Tony's debts in exchange for Luis doing a few jobs for him. However, Bulgarin eventually learns about Luis and Tony's involvement with the diamonds and he betrays and lures Luis into a trap , revealing that the diamonds were his property and that he killed the cook for stealing them. Bulgarin accuses Luis and Tony of trying to rob him and threatens to have them both killed. Although Luis is able to escape the ambush, he and Tony realize they have made a mistake by getting involved with Bulgarin because he will stop at nothing until they are both dead. While Luis and Tony contemplate giving Bulgarin the diamonds to appease him, they are soon forced to trade them for Gracie Ancelotti , who was kidnapped by Niko Bellic and Patrick McReary to obtain a ransom from her father, Giovanni Ancelotti. Luis and Tony attempt to exchange the diamonds for Gracie, but Bulgarin learns of the deal and has his men ambush it. In the commotion, Luis and Tony are able to rescue Gracie and return her to her father, settling matters with him, but the diamonds are lost for good.
Not long after, Luis receives a phone call from Rocco, who asks him to meet him and Uncle Vince in Middle Park . Once there, Rocco reveals that Giovanni Ancelotti had a meeting with Bulgarin to discuss the problems Luis and Tony had caused for both of them, and they came to the conclusion that either Luis or Tony must die. Rocco advises Luis to personally kill Tony, so that he will be spared by Bulgarin and take over the clubs. Although Luis contemplates doing so, he ultimately refuses to kill Tony during a meeting with him, Rocco, and Vince at Maisonette 9, and instead shoots Vince. At Tony's advice, Luis spares Rocco, to avoid further aggravating Giovanni Ancelotti, and then fights off Bulgarin's men when they storm the club to kill them both.
Following this, Tony decides to flee Liberty City to escape Bulgarin's wrath, but Luis persuades him that it's time for them to face their problems instead of avoiding them. He tells Tony to wait for him in Meadows Park while he goes to finish off Bulgarin's syndicate, beginning by destroying his heroin shipment stored at Firefly Island . Upon doing so, Bulgarin's right-hand man Timur arrives and reveals that Bulgarin is preparing to leave the city aboard his private jet at Francis International Airport . After killing Timur, Luis heads to the airport, receiving help from Yusuf, who kills the Russians trying to stop him with his Buzzard. Arriving just in time to board Bulgarin's jet, Luis kills him and all of his men mid-flight. Bulgarin drops a grenade , destroying the plane, but Luis parachutes to safety and goes to Meadows Park to meet with Tony, who thanks him "saving" his business. Shortly after, Yusuf arrives and extends another offer to franchise Tony's clubs, Tony and Luis indicate that he would be very qualified to own the club, saying "he would go a long way in the hospitality business".
After completing the main story, Luis can call Mori, who reveals that he had a change of heart after Brucie punched him in the face earlier and decided to join a real kibbutz , but still refuses to share his money with others. He can also call his mother, who tells him that she is proud of him for the first time in the game and tries one last time to convince him go to college. Also, if Luis tries to call Rocco , his voicemail reveals that he has left Liberty City, after failing to have Tony and Luis' situation handled. Additionally, with the Ancelottis being severely weakened during the events of Grand Theft Auto IV , this effectively leaves both Tony and Luis no longer obligated to continue paying their mob debts.
It is implied that Tony and Luis eventually accepted Yusuf's offer to franchise Maisonette 9 and Hercules and that Tony left Liberty City, as his number is removed from Luis' phone after the completion of the storyline and it appears that Luis was left as the sole manager of the Liberty City branch of Tony's empire due to him being Tony's business partner and Tony's absence.
By 2018 , Tony has moved to Los Santos with the intent of opening a successful nightclub there. Tony makes a return in the After Hours update for Grand Theft Auto Online , where he works with the GTA Online Protagonist to open a new nightclub . What happened to Luis is unknown, but a photo of him can be found inside Tony's office at the club, implying that the two remained good friends. Their remaining friendship is confirmed when Tony mentions the GTA Online Protagonist reminds them of him during a mission.
Also, in the same update, Luis is mentioned by Jimmy Boston in the Nightclub Management: Rescue celebrity mission:
Luis is a relatively reserved character, as he rarely demonstrates his emotions or feelings. Despite this, Luis does care for his mother and friends as he was visually struggling to restrain his anger toward Mr. Santo because of his threatening behaviour towards his mother. Luis is very sarcastic and unafraid to stand up to people if he deems it necessary. His reserved, level-headed personality makes him a perfect foil to the flamboyant, impulsive Tony.
Luis also shows clear disdain for the "street" lifestyle that landed him in prison, and criticises Armando and Henrique for still living it and advises them to get legitimate jobs. Despite this, he still helps out his old friends with drug deals and they repay him with vehicles and weapons. He also shows clear signs of bitterness for the time he spent in prison, though this is mainly due to having to fight off other inmates.
Luis is a muscular man of Afro-Latino descent in his mid-twenties. He has brown eyes, black hair, a moustache and stubble on his chin. He wears an earring in his left ear and has a tattoo of his own name on the right side of his neck. His default outfit is a black and white letterman jacket with blue jeans and white tennis shoes (black in GTA IV and TLaD ), while he wears a suit with an earpiece while on club business. His artwork depicts him wearing a necklace and a wristwatch on his left wrist, though these do not appear with any of his outfits. He speaks with a New York Latino accent (which is much thicker in GTA IV and TLaD than it is in TBoGT ) and often integrates Spanish into his speech. Prior to his incarceration, he was considerably more scrawny; however, the severe conditions of prison life compelled him to significantly develop his physique.
Because of his role as a nightclub bouncer, Luis has had the opportunity to socialize and even have casual sex with famous, beautiful women. It is mentioned by several people in the game that Luis has a small penis. Whether this is true or not is never confirmed, though Luis becomes angry when it is discussed. Gracie and Daisy both playfully tease Luis about being a closeted homosexual.
Luis has been sexually linked to:
- Works as a bodyguard for Tony Prince, streetname - Gay Tony. - Also works as a doorman at Prince's nightclubs Maisonette 9 and Hercules in Lower Algonquin.
Huang Lee ( Chinese : 李皇 , Mandarin Pinyin: Lǐ Huáng ) is the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Prior to his physical debut, he was briefly mentioned in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Huang is the spoiled son of a Triad leader who, for most of his life, never had to solve any problem himself, always relying on his family's fortune and connections to get him out of trouble. However, when his father is murdered for mysterious reasons, Huang travels to Liberty City to deliver the Yu Jian Sword , a family heirloom, to the family's new patriarch, Huang's uncle Wu "Kenny" Lee .
Upon arrival, Huang is attacked by unknown assailants who steal Yu Jian and leave him for dead. By sheer luck, Huang survives and subsequently begins a quest to find those responsible for Yu Jian's theft and his father's murder. This leads him to become heavily involved with the Liberty City underworld as he works for various prominent crime figures in exchange for answers.
Huang Lee was born in Hong Kong c. c. circa 1983 . He owes his status as a Triad member to his father , a Triad boss from China , though Huang himself had very little interest in this type of life prior to his arrival in America . Instead, he was more focused on spending his father's money and getting into other types of trouble, never having to work a day in his life thanks to his family's fortune and reputation.
Due to his lifestyle, Huang developed the reputation of being a spoiled, rich kid. As a result, he never made any real friends, at one point claiming that he "bought" all of his friends, just like everything else, since it was easier than forming connections with people.
Huang was mentored to some extent in the Triad ways by his father, becoming a competent gangster. While Huang's exact relationship with his father is never detailed, Huang appears to have a positive opinion of him, describing him as "a good guy, for a philandering, drug addled murderer." However, it is also possible that Huang was somewhat neglected by his father, who indulged in many of the same vices as his son, including drugs and prostitutes .
While Chinatown Wars implies that this is Huang's first time in America, he has in fact visited Liberty City at least once before 2009 . By his own accord, the visit left a negative impression on him, as he caught crabs after an encounter with a Swiss tourist.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , Huang has a criminal record in the LCPD Database , according to which he was arrested twice: once in 2002 for trademark counterfeiting, and a second time in 2005 for grand theft auto. This could imply that he has visited Liberty City multiple times prior to the events of Chinatown Wars .
In 2009, Huang's life takes an unexpected turn after his father is suddenly murdered, and Huang is tasked with flying to Liberty City to deliver the Yu Jian Sword , a "family heirloom", to the new patriarch of the family: his uncle, Wu "Kenny" Lee . Having sworn on his father's grave to avenge him, Huang accepts the mission and boards a private jet to Liberty City. He would later admit that he did so to score a good grade within the family and hopefully inherit his late father's assets.
The story of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars begins with Huang's arrival in Liberty City to complete his assignment from Kenny. However, what was supposed to be a simple delivery job turns into a dangerous adventure after Huang's escort is killed and he is shot by assailants waiting for them at Francis International Airport . The assailants steal Yu Jian and, believing Huang to be dead, dump his body in the water . Huang manages to survive and finds his way to Kenny's restaurant . Kenny explains that he wanted to give Yu Jian to Hsin Jaoming , the aging leader of the Liberty City Triads, but has been dishonored by the sword's loss, forcing Huang and Kenny to work together to keep their business afloat.
Huang begins to make several criminal contacts in Liberty City, such as Ling Shan , one of Kenny's employees, who is tragically killed by a rival gang ; Zhou Ming , a high-ranking Triad boss also eyeing the position of Hsin's successor; and Chan Jaoming , Hsin's incompetent son and the first in the line of succession. Huang begins working for both Zhou and Chan, but during a job for the latter, he is intercepted by Wade Heston , a corrupt LCPD detective under observation by Internal Affairs . Heston proposes an alliance, since he needs a 'big bust' to get Internal Affairs off his tail, and he and Huang begin working together to find Yu Jian's thief. Heston suspects the Koreans to be behind the theft and has Huang investigate them. Eventually, Huang creates a distraction to allow Heston to bug the Koreans' headquarters, whereupon the pair learn of a splinter group within the gang called the Wonsu Nodong . They conclude that the Wonsu leader is behind Yu Jian's theft and has also been causing problems for the Triads with the help of a police informant.
Meanwhile, Hsin contacts Huang, concerned about the news of a traitor within his syndicate, and has him investigate this mole. However, Hsin soon grows frustrated with Huang's slow progress and eventually comes to suspect that Huang himself is the traitor. Just as Hsin is about to kill Huang , Kenny comes to his nephew's rescue and convinces Hsin to give Huang more time to find the real traitor. Hsin then orders Huang to follow two leads: the Koreans and the Angels of Death . Huang contacts Lester Leroc , an informant among the Angels, and continues his own investigation of the Koreans. During his search, Huang is thrown off course by Rudy D'Avanzo , a Triad-hating mobster who lies to him that the mole works for the Messina Crime Family . Hsin exposes the lie, and Huang kills D'Avanzo as a result.
When the Koreans and the Angels of Death are both proven innocent, Huang takes a new course in the investigation and helps Heston with several jobs for his FIB contact , who offered to help them identify the informant. After most of their work proves fruitless, Huang decides to hack into the FIB servers while Heston is forced to back down due to pressure from Internal Affairs. The data Huang recovers from the FIB names both Zhou Ming and Chan Jaoming as police informants and traitors to the Triad cause. After talking with Kenny about what to do with this information, Huang presents it to Hsin, who is disgraced by the possibility of his son betraying the Triads and steps down as leader, appointing Kenny as his successor. Kenny then orders Huang to kill Zhou and Chan, which he accomplishes , despite both men denying their guilt.
Heston later calls Huang to reveal that the information Huang uncovered was fake and that the Wonsu leader is having a meeting with his allies, which they infiltrate. Huang is shocked to find Kenny, who confesses to being the Wonsu leader and the mole, but before he can reveal more, the police bust the meeting. Kenny tries to escape but Huang and Heston chase him across town, eventually cornering him at Hsin's penthouse . There, Kenny admits that he killed Huang's father, his own brother, in order to secure Yu Jian for Hsin, who promised to appoint him his successor. However, Kenny later realized that Hsin would have never kept his word, and orchestrated Yu Jian's theft to disgrace Hsin before working from the shadows to undermine him, all the while framing Chan and Zhou to cover his tracks.
As Hsin confronts Kenny over his treason, he demands that the latter hand over Yu Jian. Kenny responds by slashing Hsin with the sword, and proceeds to attack Huang, who kills him, avenging his father at last. The police then arrive at the penthouse and attempt to arrest everyone, but Heston insists that this is his 'bust' and orders that Huang be left alone since he is a 'good kid'. Before being taken into custody, an injured Hsin praises Huang's loyalty and offers him the position of Triad boss, to which Huang has no immediate answer.
Huang is later contacted by one of Kenny's associates, Xin , who instructs him to steal a Rhino to distract the police from a planned robbery. However, the cops ambush Xin; Huang attempts to take him to safety, but he succumbs to his injuries. Before his death, Xin reveals that he is the brother of Ling Shan, the girl Huang had met shortly after arriving in the city. Huang mourns for both of them.
Throughout the course of the game, Huang appears to be very cocky and quick-witted. He is portrayed to be much more intelligent than other characters in the game who seem to be oblivious to Huang's constant mocking and sarcastic remarks.
Huang does not value honor and tradition in the same vein as his uncle, at one point telling Kenny that "this is 2009 and not 1403". However, he is very loyal to his family and his gang, following their orders with little hesitation, even to the point he'd murder other Triads. Huang acknowledges that he is a "pampered little snot" in the opening cutscene, and he reveals that he has visited Liberty City before, where he "caught crabs off a Swiss tourist".
Huang seems to dislike most of the people he works for, but he shows the occasional respect for his Uncle Kenny (before finding out that Kenny had killed his father). He also develops an amicable relationship with Wade Heston, so much that Heston decides not to arrest Huang at the end of the game, thinking he is a 'good kid' and deserves to be free. Even after Chan and Zhou are revealed to have not been traitors, Huang never shows any remorse for killing them (especially given the fact that Chan often annoyed Huang).
Huang is a young adult of visible Asian heritage. He has a somewhat lighter than average skin-tone, and short, medium-brown hair. He has facial hair in the form of some hard-to-spot chin stubble and a soul patch beneath his lower lip. He almost always carries an expression of bored indifference, only showing significant emotion during very few cutscenes in the game, as well as a harsher, angrier expression in the game's official artworks.
His attire remains consistent throughout the game, likely due to the top-down view making character customization rather pointless. He wears a green overcoat overtop of a red button-up tee, which is worn over top of a plain white tee-shirt. His red shirt is always open in-game, and he wears his collar up, leading to the misconception that the red shirt is actually the inner lining of the overcoat. It is seen buttoned up only in the official artworks. Additionally, Huang wears blue jeans, which aren't significantly visible, if at all, in any of the game's cutscenes, and lastly, artworks depict him as wearing two different kinds of shoes: a pair of green-and-white high-top sneakers, and a pair of brown boots, which may simply be an unintentional inconsistency on the artist's part.
Another noteworthy physical characteristic about Huang is his athleticism. He is adept in martial arts and other athletic maneuvers, such as rolling, and can vault over ledges much quicker than other HD Universe protagonists. Huang can outrun virtually every vehicle in the game, and he is also capable of knocking down street poles and destroying cars with punches alone; all three of these are things none of the other HD Universe protagonists can do.
The correct pronunciation for the name Huang is Hoo-ang . People mistakenly pronounce the name Hoo-ong , which is incorrect. Huang translates to yellow if written 黃, but can be translated to anything that uses the same pronunciation.
Another area of confusion is the mixed use of Mandarin and Cantonese spellings in his name. Huang Lee hails from Hong Kong, where the Cantonese dialect is more commonly used, but " Huáng " (黃) is written in a Romanized Mandarin spelling when " Wong " should be used. This also happens with his surname as " Lee ", and in extension the more commonly in pinyin spelling, " Lǐ ", are pronunciations in Mandarin, whereas the correct Romanized writing should be "Lei". This means Huang Lee's name may also been purely referred -in Chinese name order- to as "Lei Wong" in Cantonese and "Lǐ Huáng" in Mandarin. His early background in Hong Kong remains largely unexplained. In some Chinese-language websites Huang Lee's given name is written 皇, which has the same Mandarin pronunciation as 黃 ( huáng ), but here it means "royal", "regal", "emperor" and commonly used in ways associated with royalty.
Huang has a record on the LCPD Database in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Lester Crest (also known as Long John Teabag/LJT ) is a character appearing as a central character and the main deuteragonist in Grand Theft Auto V , and as a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is portrayed by Jay Klaitz .
Lester was born with a wasting disease that has destroyed his muscle strength to the point where he has to maneuver in a wheelchair, though he can still walk short distances with the help of a cane.
Sometime after he finished his studies, Lester applied for a faculty position at the University of San Andreas, Los Santos , but was not accepted. As an act of revenge, he hacked their systems, a fact that Lester claims "never gets old". [ 2 ]
At an unknown point in time, Lester moved out to the Midwest, where he met and became affiliated with bank robbers Michael Townley and Trevor Philips , and became a regular member of their heist crews since the start of their partnership, working mostly as a planner and information scout. During this time, Lester likely told both of them about the Union Depository , a superbank in Los Santos where the government keeps their gold reserve, leading to the three of them to come up with potential schemes on how to rob the place. In 2004 , Lester refused to participate in robbing a cash storage facility in Ludendorff , North Yankton , believing it was a bad idea. His suspicions are later confirmed when he discovers that, during this same heist, Michael was apparently gunned down and another associate, Brad , was subsequently arrested.
Following the botched heist, Lester moved to Los Santos and purchased a garment factory in La Mesa , along with several other properties to use as fronts for his various operations. During this time, Lester investigated the Ludendorff heist and learned that Michael was alive but had faked his death and moved to Los Santos as well, having previously made a corrupt deal with FIB agent Dave Norton . However, as Michael never revealed that Lester was part of the crew, Lester in turn never revealed Michael's secret. Lester also lost contact with Trevor, but secretly kept tabs on his and Michael's whereabouts.
In 2013 , the player is introduced to Lester in Grand Theft Auto Online upon reaching rank 10; Lester phones them and asks to meet up at his house in El Burro Heights . When the pair meet, he informs the player of their growing reputation and suggests that they invest their money in real estate in order to protect it from being robbed. Before the player leaves, Lester tells them they are able to put a bounty on other players by simply calling him. If the player sets a bounty on another player, Lester will take a cut of $ 1,000.
From version 1.15 , the player could receive messages from Lester, who required a target be eliminated for easy cash. These jobs were removed from version 1.29 but remained playable on the original versions until their access to GTA Online was shut down in December 2021 .
As the player increases their rank and reputation, Lester provides more jobs, mostly stealing vehicles or other items, retrieving people of interest, or decreasing the capacity of the law enforcement in Los Santos. For most of these missions, Lester uses his warehouse as a pick-up or drop-off point.
Lester seems to have a distaste for Merryweather Security and is disgruntled by its increasing scale of domestic operations. Because of his negative feelings and also for opportunistic reasons, he instructs the player to steal a Titan plane , two Buzzard Attack Choppers , a secretly-developed electromagnetic weapon , and a container full of weapons from them, to be used for his other, undisclosed projects.
Lester sends a text message to the player, asking to meet him in his factory, to talk about an opportunity. Lester then introduces the player to the online Heists . He and Paige Harris help the player in the execution of a heist , targeting a safety deposit box at the Chumash branch of Fleeca .
Afterwards, he refers the players to other heists he wants no part in , but still takes a finder's fee for the referral. Finally, Lester leads the player on a final heist , where they rob the Pacific Standard Public Deposit Bank .
Lester also would request the GTA Online Protagonist to distract the cops occasionally to allow his contact to safely escape. The feature was removed from the Enhanced Edition in the Freemode Events Update and remained exclusive to the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 editions until they were shut down.
Lester, under the nickname "Long John Teabag" and using a voice changer, [ 3 ] [ 4 ] [ 5 ] helps the player set up and run illegal business for their Motorcycle Club , using The Open Road , a network server run by him.
Lester and Michael reunite after nearly a decade when Michael finds himself in need of money after unintentionally angering Cartel boss Martin Madrazo by pulling his mistress' house down a hill , believing it to be the home of Kyle Chavis , a tennis coach who'd slept with his wife . Lester agrees to help, but only after Michael assassinates Lifeinvader CEO Jay Norris , who Lester had long since became enraged with due to Norris' use of child labor and the "messiah complex" he developed. Lester also planned to make a profit by buying Lifeinvader shares at minimal price, only to sell them at inflated ones later, after Norris' death. Once the assassination is completed, Lester helps Michael, and his new associate Franklin Clinton , pull off a robbery at the Vangelico jewel store in Portola Drive , which covers the cost of the repairs to Madrazo's house .
Later in the game, Lester hires Franklin several times to pull off other similar assassinations in order to amass a fortune in the stock market. Lester buys up large amounts of stock in the rival companies of his targets when their share prices are low, so that their share prices will rise significantly following the assassinations and Lester can sell his shares at a profit. Other victims include Brett Lowrey , the CEO of Bilkinton Research who had recently come under fire for manufacturing faulty erectile dysfunction medication; four corrupt jurors who planned to throw out a lawsuit against Redwood Cigarettes ; Jackson Skinner , the Head of Product Development at Facade who was at the center of a data mining scandal; Isaac Penny , a venture capitalist who planned to acquire a majority share of Vapid Motor Company simply to outsource most of the jobs; and Enzo Bonelli , a mobster turned real estate developer who blackmailed his way into several construction contracts for Los Santos.
Lester reunites with Trevor after the latter stole an unknown superweapon from a private security company named Merryweather Security, and convinces him to return it in order not to get hunted down by many major national governments. Additionally, he helps the protagonists plan out a robbery on a county bank to finance an FIB operation , helps Franklin rescue Michael after he's captured by Wei Cheng 's triad due to his connection with Trevor, helps Michael and Franklin carry out a break-in on the FIB Headquarters to delete incriminating files about the team and Agent Steve Haines , and helps the three protagonists find and rescue Franklin's friend Lamar Davis after Franklin's former friend Stretch betrayed him to the Ballas . Finally, he ultimately helps the trio pull off the biggest score of their careers: a robbery on the Union Depository . If the player chooses the obvious approach to The Big Score , Lester will travel as a passenger in Trevor's helicopter and shoot down pursuing Merryweather helicopters with a rocket launcher .
By the end of the game, Franklin is given separate orders by Steve Haines and Devin Weston to kill one of his friends. Haines wants him to kill Trevor and Weston wants him to kill Michael . The player then has to choose between carrying out Haines' instructions, carrying out Weston's, or disregarding them both and getting together with both Michael and Trevor to take out their enemies .
In these endings, Lester only appears again through an email he sends to the two surviving protagonists. If Trevor is killed , he sends Franklin and Michael their share of the Union Depository job and splits Trevor's share between them, despite he had doubt but telling them to "hold onto it for him", as well as claiming to be "rather disappointed" that things "had to end as they did". If Michael is killed , Lester sends Franklin and Trevor their shares of the Union Depository job and sends Michael's share to his family, while at the same time stating in his email that he hopes neither Franklin nor Trevor was involved in Michael's death.
In 2017 , Lester contacts the GTA Online Protagonist, saying he has found opportunities more lucrative than the traditional bank heists, which can be utilized under a SecuroServ VIP contract, a SecuroServ CEO organization, or a registered Motorcycle Club. The player begins by purchasing a government facility , where Lester meets them along with a billionaire named Avon Hertz and his AI neural network named Cliffford . Avon claims that he and Cliffford have unfolded a doomsday plot from an unknown foreign entity and is looking to hire some people for taking on extremely dangerous missions, such as infiltrating the NOOSE building and stealing an Avenger from Merryweather. Thus, Lester and the protagonist agree to become hired guns for Avon.
In the conclusion of Act 1 , Avon sends the protagonist to a secret IAA facility beneath the Satellite Relay Station which is under attack by Merryweather Security. Avon claims that Merryweather was hired by an "unknown" client and that it is the protagonist's job to clear the facility of hostile activity and rescue any IAA agents still alive. After the attack is foiled, Agent 14 and Phoenicia Rackman reluctantly team up with Avon on behalf of the International Affairs Agency . The three of them hire Lester and the protagonist to find the "unknown" client who paid off Merryweather and uncover their intentions. The trail eventually leads to the Ramius , a Russian submarine off the coast of Paleto Bay , and a rogue Russian special ops unit led by a mysterious Russian agent called Bogdan .
In the conclusion of Act 2 , the protagonist, with the help of Lester, infiltrates the Ramius and eliminates anyone who stands in their way. After Avon orders them to upload Cliffford into the sub's mainframe, Bogdan reveals himself and tells the protagonist that Avon and Cliffford are actually planning to launch a nuclear missile, resulting in mutually assured destruction , and that he was only trying to stop them. Avon reveals his true colors and Cliffford initiates the sub's self-destruct sequence to destroy all "evidence". Lester orders the protagonist to jump ship and Bogdan willingly provides them with some scuba gear before taking flight in an escape pod, after which the Ramius explodes. After escaping, the protagonist regroups with Lester, Rackman, and Agent 14 at the Los Santos International Airport .
After killing Avon and destroying Cliffford in the Act 3 finale , the protagonist reconvenes with Lester, Agent 14, and Rackman at the Galileo Observatory and is congratulated on their success and for stopping a nuclear war. Lester, speaking for the protagonist and himself, tells Rackman that they will settle for their "fat paycheck" and Rackman agrees to pay. A socially awkward Lester then tries to initiate "small talk" with the protagonist before giving up and saying "Well, this has been... horrifying... really, really horrifying but... also pretty fun. So, bye bye." .
At the conclusion of The Doomsday Heist , Lester calls the protagonist and informs them that due to their work in stopping Avon, Lester will no longer charge the player when they need police attention removed.
In 2019 , Lester unexpectedly contacts the GTA Online Protagonist, asking them to meet him at Mirror Park for a new opportunity. When the protagonist arrives, Lester is angry at the player for messaging him and tells them that he is done with heists. When the protagonist shows Lester that he messaged them, Lester realizes that his phone was hacked. The hacker, Georgina Cheng , immediately shows up with her associate Huang on behalf of Cheng Family Holdings . She claims that she wants the two of them to rob The Diamond Casino & Resort for her, due to the Duggan Crime Family recently taking control of the casino from them. Though reluctant to do so, Lester agrees to help and tells the protagonist to purchase an arcade center to be used as a front for the heist, with him hiring staff, including his old friend Michael's son Jimmy , to make the purchase seem legitimate. Lester briefly explains to the protagonist that Jimmy is a "family friend", and Jimmy refers to Lester as "my Uncle Les", indicating Lester is still close friends with Michael and his family by this time.
Later on, Lester meets up with the protagonist at their newly purchased arcade center and runs them through some basic business setup to get the place up and running before they can plan the heist in the basement. Lester remains behind the scenes as the heist planner and gives instructions on the Prep missions and eventually the heist itself. Once it is pulled off, Lester regroups with the crew on the roof of the building directly across from the casino to celebrate. Georgina then unexpectedly arrives and flirts with him, eventually making out passionately on the rooftop as they begin a romantic relationship.
After the heist, Lester continues to help the protagonist rob the casino whenever they want, should they choose to do so. Later on, a picture can be seen of Lester and Georgina hanging out at the Del Perro Pier , with Lester having won a stuffed animal from one of the carnival games for her.
In 2021, during the events of The Contract update, it is revealed that Franklin and Lester are still in touch, and that Lester has recently spoken to Franklin about the GTA Online Protagonist robbing The Diamond Casino & Resort in 2019.
Lester is also briefly mentioned by Franklin during the Payphone Hits introduction, as "the dude who used to run the hits in this town".
In 2024 , Lester sells the garment factory to the GTA Online Protagonist. He later sends them an email, remarking that most of Los Santos belongs to them now. An attached picture confirms Lester and Georgina are still together. The fact that his email mentions he is retired could possibly indicate that, by this point, he and the GTA Online Protagonist have stopped robbing The Diamond Casino & Resort.
In 2025 , Lester is indirectly mentioned by Michael as one of the contacts he and the GTA Online Protagonist have in common, with Michael further referencing the robbery of The Pacific Standard Public Deposit Bank or The Diamond Casino & Resort as one of the notable heists performed by the protagonist. During the mission Home Sweet Home , Michael mentions Lester by name when he says "Fuckin' technology, man... Where's Lester when you need him?" in response to the protagonist's AI Concierge malfunctioning.
In 2013, he is usually seen dressed in a green checkered shirt and blue jeans or brown trousers. He has an unused brown suit with a green checkered undershirt with a small tie and black loafers. The in-game version of Lester's artwork shows him wearing a red shirt instead of the green checkered shirt. This outfit is only seen in the Paleto Score Setup [ 6 ] when getting off the bus and in the Paleto Score heist opening cutscene when he meets Michael, Trevor, Franklin, and the chosen gunman at Ace Liquor .
Lester suffers from a wasting disease which has gradually worn down his motor skills during his life and left him wheelchair-bound, though he is able to walk short distances with the use of a cane . Due to his limited mobility, Lester has grown considerably overweight, and he also suffers from asthma. Therefore, despite owning a car , he is rarely seen driving. In the aggressive approach of The Diamond Casino Heist , he tells the player that "driving aggravates his hives". At another point in The Diamond Casino Heist, Lester says that he "feels his eczema clearing".
Lester appears to be ambidextrous, as he uses both arms to draw on the planning board when putting together the plan in the arcade .
Despite Lester's physical disabilities, he makes up for this with a genius-level intelligence, a masterful expertise in technology and computing and a sharp eye for detail, which is what makes him an excellent planner for the various heists he has pulled off throughout his life. He is also an avid video-gamer and is a particular fan of Righteous Slaughter 7 .
It is implied that Lester was bullied in high school, as he posted on Bleeter that "getting revenge" on his old high school class "never seemed to get old". Lester is, by his own admission, socially awkward and reveals to the GTA Online Protagonist during the Fleeca Job that he is "not the best conversationalist" and rarely meets people in person. When he meets people online and arranges to meet them in real life, he will show up but not introduce himself to his dates and will instead watch them from afar. Sometimes he likes cracking bad jokes that are met with awkward silence, showing his inability to deal with people outside the business or the online life.
Lester is very well informed on world politics and the machinations and details of corporate activities. Using this knowledge, he has previously been involved in stock fraud and corporate assassination. He also keeps a close eye on the criminal world. He mentions "an Eastern European guy in Liberty City" when thinking of people to help them hit the jewelry store, possibly referring to Niko Bellic . He comments on the McReary family if the player chooses Packie 's résumé while planning a heist, indicating that he also knows about them beyond just Patrick himself.
Lester is also shown to brew his own moonshine, as when first entering Lester's home, the player can find alcohol brewing equipment set up with tubes running into jugs. After The Bureau Raid , if the player chose the covert approach, Lester instructs Franklin to fill up everyone's glasses and mention he has some "real vintage" moonshine.
On Lester's Lifeinvader page, a message from a girl asking about his true age can be seen, implying that he fakes his age in order to talk to younger women, with Trevor referring to him as "Lester the Molester". Lester admits to Franklin that he hacks girls' webcams to watch them and after The Bureau Raid (fire crew approach), he says he will "reverse engineer a webcam and spy on those sorority girls again". Lester possibly believes that the Illuminati is watching him as he has an Illuminati poster in his house as well as a folder on his laptop's desktop labeled "Illuminati", and this may possibly explain why the windows of his house are covered up.
Lester is unlocked as a phone contact at rank 10. When called, he offers a wide range of services, which are generally to assist the Protagonist. Each service costs a specific amount of money and is unlocked once a specific rank has been reached.
If the bountied player survived for one in-game day, or 48 real minutes outside of an apartment , they will get the bounty money.
Note: Certain Free Mode missions may prevent the player from losing the cops with this service.
(Free after completing The Doomsday Heist Act 3)
They can still get a wanted level if they share a car with a player who has a wanted level, or if the player attacks a law enforcement officer.
Audio: https://gta.fandom.com/wiki/File:LJT-GTAO-0x088D98C9.ogg
Audio: https://gta.fandom.com/wiki/File:LesterCrest-GTAO-LJTConfirmed.ogg
Lester, Trevor and Michael after Lester gets off the bus.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Lamar Davis is a character appearing as a central character and deuteragonist to Franklin Clinton in Grand Theft Auto V and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online . He is also one of the two playable characters, along with Franklin, of the Short Trips missions and the Double Down Adversary Modes , included as part of The Contract update.
Lamar is the best friend of Franklin Clinton and lives in Chamberlain Hills . He is described as "crazy" by Rockstar Games . It appears that Lamar is a drug dealer and gang-banger due to Franklin's comments about Lamar "slingin' dope" and "throwing up gang signs." He is a member of the Families street gang, originally joining the Chamberlain Gangster set at a young age alongside Franklin, and later forming the Forum Gangsters set with Franklin and several other CGF members. Lamar was working as a repossession man for Premium Deluxe Motorsport until Simeon Yetarian fired both Lamar and Franklin.
Lamar and Franklin both attended Davis High School together when they were teenagers. Eventually, the pair became involved in crime. According to Franklin during The Paleto Score , his first job was a bank robbery with Lamar, although dye packs went off, rendering the money useless.
According to both Lamar and Franklin, Lamar is of Apache descent. He seems to be proud of it, as in Repossession he says " That's that Apache blood in me! "
Lamar picks up the Online Player from the LSIA , where it is revealed they have been in contact online on Lifeinvader for a while. If female, Lamar attempts to hit on the player, but to no avail. Lamar hands them a pistol , and will take the player to a car park and partake in a race with them. After the race, Lamar takes the player to meet Gerald , where he assigns a job. After the player reaches level 50, Lamar calls the player to tell them that he can provide a mugger to mug anyone the player chooses.
Lamar also asks the player for help with his job at Premium Deluxe Motorsport and his own smuggling business. One job requires the player to repossess a Schafter held by a Ballas member for Simeon. Later, he instructs the player to steal a gas tanker from the LTD gas station in Little Seoul , a tanker full of chemicals going to the Palmer-Taylor Power Station and a gas tanker en-route to the Xero Gas warehouse at LSIA, and deliver them to his depot in Murrieta Heights .
Lamar introduces the player to Benny and his shop, Benny's Original Motor Works and will begin to give players missions to do so Lamar can rise to become the "King of Los Santos." His attempts to rise to the top include attempting to get the Vagos and Ballas into a gang war with each other and stealing lowriders , but these result in detrimental side effects. Because of Lamar's actions, Gerald gets arrested by the police , and loses trust with the Families and has to make amends . Ultimately, Lamar receives a reality check and realizes that his dreams of rising to the top are little more than dreams, thanking the player for helping him realize that.
Lamar is first seen performing a repossession job in Vespucci Beach with Franklin. The duo encounter Michael De Santa , who unknowingly gives them directions to the property where they have to repossess the cars. Lamar and Franklin discover the cars, a 9F Cabrio and a Rapid GT , and race them through Los Santos back to the dealership. Soon after, Lamar and Franklin are assigned by Simeon to repossess a Bagger in a Vagos -controlled area of Vespucci . While searching for the motorbike, the pair are confronted by Vagos gangsters and are forced to fight their way out of the neighborhood. The two find the bike, but the owner is killed in the action. Knowing that the repossession is now meaningless, Lamar keeps the bike for himself and eventually gives it to Franklin.
Around the same time Simeon fires both of them for the bike theft and Franklin being forced by Michael to drive another repossession through the shop window , Lamar brings Franklin along to kidnap a Ballas thug named D , for no reason other than that Lamar saw "opportunity." With the help of Chop , the two succeed in kidnapping D; however, they are forced to set him free when Lamar inadvertently reveals their location. Sometime afterwards, Lamar asks Franklin to look after Chop in his stead to protect him from the Ballas.
Lamar and the recently released Stretch drop by Franklin's house in Strawberry and the trio go to a drug deal with D . However, to their surprise, they discover that D had lured them into a trap and intends to leave them to be attacked by the Ballas. Stretch kills D, and the trio shoot their way out of the building together, making a run for it to escape from the oncoming police.
When Franklin returns to his old house , Lamar and Denise heckle him for being neglectful of the CGF , as Franklin wants to move on from his gang-banging lifestyle. As he criticizes them for trying to drag him back into a life that has done nothing for him, Franklin's acquaintance Trevor suddenly appears, claiming he wants to make new friends. Though reluctant to do so, Lamar lets Trevor accompany him and Franklin to a drug deal . The deal turns out to be a scam, however, and a shootout ensues. In the heat of the battle, the LSPD show up, forcing the trio to escape into the nearby Los Santos River . They steal three jet skis and ride out into the open sea , putting distance between them and the cops. Depending on who the player is controlling, they can either have all the characters go off on their own or pair up with another character to escape from the cops. Should Franklin follow Lamar, Franklin figures out the whole thing was a set-up by Stretch in an attempt to get rid of Lamar.
Lamar is later told by Trevor that Franklin is stealing high-end cars for multi-millionaire businessman Devin Weston and tracks him to the Hayes Autos garage on Little Bighorn Avenue using his GPS. Devin notices the tension between the two and suggests that Lamar is the "spirit" and Franklin is the "brains" of their two-man operation. Franklin leaves with Devin, and Lamar discusses the possibility of working together. Lamar later steals a Monroe for Devin and, with Devin's collection complete, works with Trevor and Franklin to transport them north of Paleto Bay , which they successfully manage despite receiving police attention. The trio arrive at their destination and Franklin is told that their payment has been "reinvested" and will only be paid once the police interest has died down, annoying the trio.
With the help of Stretch, Lamar sets up a drug deal with the Ballas at the Paleto Forest Sawmill in Blaine County . The deal turns out to be yet another set up , however, and Lamar is kidnapped by the Ballas. When Franklin learns of this, he contacts Trevor and Michael to help rescue him. They proceed to kill the Ballas, after which Franklin takes Lamar home . On the way there, Lamar and Franklin get into a small dispute, where Lamar blasts Franklin for seemingly abandoning him for his new crew and never really having his back, especially since he was never properly reimbursed for his role in Devin's car thefts. Taking this personally, Franklin lambasts Lamar over the fact that Lamar knew Franklin was never paid for the job and reminds him of the many efforts he made to save Lamar from problems of his own making only for Lamar to repeat his mistakes. Franklin advises him to remain civilized, stay out of trouble and leave the routine gangbanging lifestyle and get some legitimate work, though they both agree that Stretch had sold out to the Ballas while in prison and likely set up the deal to kill Lamar as a sign of loyalty to his new crew. As their argument ends, Lamar overhears Steve Haines and Dave Norton meeting Franklin around the corner and ordering him to kill Trevor when the time is right. As the agents drive away, Lamar asks Franklin who they were, but an annoyed Franklin refuses to tell him.
If Franklin chooses to save his friends instead of killing them , he will call Lamar and explain his intent to save his mentors and eventually take out all of their enemies. Impressed, Lamar instantly volunteers to help Franklin, who picks up Lamar and takes him to the Grand Banks Steel Foundry , where Haines and Weston were told that the gold from a recent heist that Franklin took part in was located, in order to lure their forces there to take them out. Franklin, Lamar, Michael and Trevor take positions around the foundry and defend themselves from the waves of FIB agents and Merryweather operatives.
Lamar calls Franklin saying that he was "right about Stretch", and that he will need to lay low for a while. After this, Franklin will only be able to hang out with Lamar at night. He also sends a text message to Franklin to ask if he knows anything about Trevor's death, though Franklin responds by claiming Trevor was killed by government agents.
Lamar calls Franklin saying that he was "right about Stretch", and that he will need to lay low for a while. After this, Franklin will only be able to hang out with Lamar at night. He also texts to Franklin to ask if he knows anything about Michael's death, but Franklin claims he knows nothing about it.
However, since Trevor previously distanced himself from Franklin, he will no longer be able to hang out with Lamar.
While he does not physically appear in GTA Online: Los Santos Tuners , his Emperor ( custom license plate LAMAR G ) can be sometimes be found inside the LS Car Meet warehouse, meaning that he attends the LS Car Meet as of July 2021 .
By December 2021, Lamar has become the head of his own marijuana business, LD Organics , and contacts the GTA Online Protagonist about Franklin starting his own company, F. Clinton and Partner . As Franklin is in need of a business partner to help him set up and run the company, Lamar has recommended the protagonist as a reliable associate based on his personal experiences with them.
After the protagonist agrees to invest in and become co-owner of the agency, Lamar arrives to visit Franklin at his new office, only to find that Franklin has given the "Partner" position to the protagonist instead of him. Angry, Lamar goes on to rant about Franklin cutting him out of the deal even though he was the one that asked the player to help Franklin in the first place. Just as Franklin is about to pay him his fees, Lamar denies them and says that he has his own deals, handing out a sample of his new product. Franklin finds it to be of high quality, and he and Lamar proceed to go to Franklin's office to have a smoke.
Lamar later visits Franklin again to ask for the sample back, as he needs it for his other businesses and could not find it in Franklin's office. Just as they are bickering whether Lamar is a part of the agency's staff, Imani notices Chop has stumbled into the room, drooling and staggering around while walking towards them. Franklin and Lamar think that it might be his old age, but Lamar still goes up to inspect him. Just as Lamar bends down to look at him, he notices that Chop has dilated eyes and instantly knows he has accidentally eaten the marijuana sample that Lamar had given to Franklin. Relieved, he starts joking about having to feed Chop a whole bunch of snacks later on.
Imani then breaks their conversation by asking how they should deal with their major client, which prompts Lamar to become curious, going to peek at the computer. To his surprise, he discovers that Franklin's major client is none other than Dr. Dre himself. Lamar then asks for Franklin's help in promoting LD Organics to Dre while both of them carry Chop out of the room by his legs.
Soon after, Lamar goes back to Franklin's office and finds the half-eaten bag that Chop had munched through. He brings it up to show Franklin, at which point he realizes that Dr. Dre is present. He instantly tries to promote his product to Dre, but Dre is uninterested and tells Lamar to stop, with Franklin also butting in to tell Lamar they have more important things to handle. Just as Dre is leaving the agency, he gives Johnny Guns a call and demands that his phone and scores be returned, with Franklin promising Dre that he will do all he can to get the items back. Meanwhile, Lamar is frantically waving his sample, trying to get Franklin to put in a good word for him in Dre's presence. After Franklin fails to do so and berates Lamar for always messing things up, the two start bickering again.
After the GTA Online Protagonist deals with Dr. Dre's problem, DJ Pooh invites Lamar, Franklin, the protagonist and an associate for a tour inside Dre's recording studio . Lamar attempts to make his own rap with a beat provided by DJ Pooh, while the GTA Online Protagonist and their associate go take a smoke in the room next door. Franklin later joins them, but Lamar stops him from smoking weed as he mentions that his wife Tanisha will be annoyed if Franklin gets high. When Lamar and Franklin check on their partners, they have become so high that they are having "an out-of-body experience".
Lamar then pulls Franklin out to deal with some business, and they ask DJ Pooh to look after their partners in their absence. Franklin and Lamar travel to the latter's warehouse to check on his storage of weed. When they reach the warehouse, however, Lamar realizes that it is being raided by the Vagos, and both he and Franklin proceed to fight them. Chop also assists in the fight by biting a Vagos member and leading the two to enter the warehouse. Just as they clear the compound of Vagos and are about to leave, Lamar and Franklin see the delivery truck being driven off. Promptly following it, the two are able to catch up with the driver and hide in the back of the truck. However, their bickering alerts the driver to their presence, and he calls in a hit. Within moments, an entire Vagos hitsquad arrives and begins shooting at the back of the truck, forcing Franklin and Lamar to shoot back.
After the truck stops in an alleyway opposite the Oriental Theater , Lamar and Franklin get out and eliminate the remaining Vagos, including the driver, from whom they recover the keys to the truck. However, as they return to the truck and prepare to drive it away, they witness the truck exploding due to the damage it had sustained during the gunfight. Lamar, furious with the outcome, walks away.
Soon after , Lamar asks for Franklin's assistance in storming the Vagos' weed business in Blaine County and destroying it as payback for them having destroyed his stash in the Mule Truck. They reach the Vagos' first weed warehouse on Marina Drive near the Alamo Sea and attack the Vagos. After defeating them, they pick up Jerry Cans containing flammable fertilizer that they pour over the weed, and set it on fire to burn it all down. Exiting the warehouse, more Vagos arrive in weaponized Technicals , and Franklin and Lamar escape in a Technical with a mounted minigun while being chased by Vagos in Mananas and Buzzard Attack Choppers .
They eventually reach the Vagos' next warehouse on Chianski Passage near Grapeseed, where they use fertilizer again to set the weed on fire. They then take one of the Vagos' Youga Classics filled with equipment for growing weed that Lamar can use, again fending off Vagos along the way, now in Ballers and Faction Customs . After losing the Vagos, the pair arrive at Franklin's home, where Lamar asks to come in. When Franklin refuses because "his kids are inside", Lamar proceeds to roast him over his parental skills, similarly to how he roasted him over his "yee-yee ass haircut" eight years ago.
After a while , Lamar and Franklin go to the recording studio for a third time, where Lamar again asks for Franklin's assistance. He starts by showing him his new LD Organics van which is "made of weed", saying that the entire van is made of "LD Organics Patented Marijuana Bioplastic". Franklin considers this a bad move and asks Lamar how he's planning to put it in a blunt if it's a part of the van itself, to which Lamar just asks him to follow along.
He tells Franklin that he was able to make a connection with actor Jimmy Boston from the Epsilon Program to promote LD Organics , as having a celebrity endorse the brand will definitely bring more attention to the business. However, Franklin, having been in the big scene and interacted with people with big personalities, warns Lamar of the oddities of such famous people and tells him to be careful of "them Kifflom freaks" as they are known to be shady. Lamar downplays it, but tells Franklin to be ready with a sniper in a nearby crane just in case. As they approach the meeting site, Lamar mentions that he posted a selfie of himself at his "top-secret location" on Snapmatic, which is later revealed to have included info that gave it away to the Vagos.
Once they reach the meeting point with Jimmy and his fellow Epsilonist Marnie Allen at the Redwood Lights Track , Franklin goes to the nearby crane with his sniper rifle while Lamar talks business with Jimmy and Marnie. Jimmy reveals his plans to transform Lamar's van into a truck with his own face on it, to serve as an advertisement for Boston Bakes, i.e. Jimmy's own brand of weed. Lamar, realizing Jimmy was never serious about endorsing him and just wanted to use him to promote his own brand, becomes annoyed. Franklin then calls him to tell him not to go through with the deal, as the Vinewood elite always try to take away all recognition.
As they are talking, Franklin suddenly sees Vagos coming towards them in Primo Customs and warns Lamar about it. Lamar immediately tells Jimmy and Marnie to get away while he and Franklin clear the area of the arriving Vagos. Once the area is clear, Franklin and Lamar start driving the van back into the city. Along the way, Lamar admits that the deal was a bad idea and that he shouldn't have expected success overnight.
During the drive, more Vagos attack Franklin and Lamar and shoot at the van which, coupled with the sun's heat, causes the weed to start burning, leading to both Lamar and Franklin getting high. Initially, they assume that the smell is coming from someone else smoking nearby and that the entire city has the smell, but they eventually realise that it is their own van burning. They manage to fight off the Vagos and try to drive the van back to Lamar's compound, but Lamar, seeing an opportunity, decides to take the van towards Tequi-la-la instead, hoping to use it as a publicity stunt to show the quality of his product. However, as they are both high, they end up crashing the van into the club.
A crowd quickly forms around the scene to investigate the crash, and Lamar immediately seizes the opportunity to promote his business. As the people start feeling the effects of the burning weed, they enjoy it and begin taking pictures and cheering for LD Organics. Franklin and Lamar take several pictures together before the former mentions needing to get home to Tanisha. Following some brief banter and Lamar offering Franklin an "internship" at LD Organics, Franklin walks off down the street in style.
In the summer of 2022 , after numerous bags of LD Organics Product go missing across Southern San Andreas and are subsequently found by the GTA Online Protagonist, Lamar texts the player to thank them for recovering his product. He also reveals that he has sent them some LD Organics merchandise as a reward, and suggests that they wear it and help promote his business.
When describing Lamar, Rockstar Games' Dan Houser said that even though he is crazy, he is a "good kind of crazy," and also a "very funny" main character, while his best friend, Franklin, is the opposite of him. He is very proud of his Apache descent and uses this to explain himself and is the basis of several of his jokes.
During missions in Grand Theft Auto V , Lamar is lazy, dim-witted, and tends to get himself in trouble by blindly trusting anyone offering him money. A prime example of this is accepting a deal with D, the Balla he previously tried to kidnap. This deal was quickly revealed to be an ambush for revenge. He constantly gets himself, Franklin and others into situations that common sense would normally keep people away from. An example is the mission Hood Safari, where Franklin, Lamar, and Trevor go to Grove Street to make a drug deal. Had Trevor not been there to uncover the possible rip-off, Lamar would've ended up buying a brick of drywall. In Lamar Down, Lamar also seems to be annoyed with Franklin and claims that Franklin ignored him and the hood since he moved to Vinewood Hills . Lamar is generally an unsuccessful criminal; every single heist he plans end up with him penniless and nearly dead. His reckless nature and misguided attempts at making money have also made him a pariah amongst his own gang, the Families , with several fellow gangsters and OGs such as Gerald and Vernon wanting nothing to do with him after the trouble Lamar has caused them.
Lamar appears to play the role of comedic relief as a sidekick to the more grounded and reasonable Franklin. His character is somewhat trivialized — despite being a violent and ruthless gangster (for example, at one point, Lamar contemplates betraying Simeon and taking his business), he never harms anyone outside of in-game shoot-outs, and generally projects an image of a harmless, clownish character.
Lamar is also quite cowardly, since on one occasion , when the Vagos arrive at Benny's Original Motor Works , he retreats into the shop in order to avoid confrontation, even comically making up an excuse that he left a pot on a stove and later telling the GTA Online protagonists to pretend they don't know him.
Lamar is a loyal friend to Franklin, as seen in the "Deathwish" ending, where, upon realizing Franklin was consciously "doing something for [his] homies for a change", he assists Franklin, Michael, and Trevor, although Franklin warned him that he will most likely die.
During friend activities, Lamar can mention that he dislikes Michael.
He also seems to be close to his mother because he has "Mom" tattooed on the right side of his neck.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Melvin Harris [ 2 ] , more commonly known as Big Smoke , is a main character and the secondary antagonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Clifton Powell .
Big Smoke was a high-ranking member of the Grove Street Families who later defected to the Ballas , and made clandestine deals with the Los Santos Vagos and Russian Mafia , eventually becoming the most powerful crook in the criminal underworld of Los Santos .
Big Smoke makes multiple references to his desire to be remembered after his death.
Big Smoke appears to speak some Spanish, as seen in the mission Running Dog . He tries to get weed from some Vagos members and after being cursed at, he threatens one of the Vagos members who then responds with " Chinga a tu madre, pendejo " which roughly translates as " Fuck your mother, asshole ".
His favorite radio station is Bounce FM .
Big Smoke was born in Los Santos , likely in Ganton due to his close relationship with Sweet and Carl Johnson , and he later joined the Grove Street Families . He rose through the ranks of the gang until he became Sweet's right-hand man, Carl's departure in 1987 following his brother 's death helped Smoke and Sweet develop a closer relationship.
Big Smoke quotes from the Bible on many occasions, hinting that he may be religious, though Carl claims he's "still talking shit."
Big Smoke, sometime after Carl's departure, moved to Idlewood after buying a house with some money he claims his aunt left him in her will. The Grove Street Families, however, began to lose influence and status among the city's gangs, noticing that the Ballas , who controlled Idlewood, were selling drugs to fuel their rising influence. He then tries to persuade Sweet to allow the Grove Street Families to sell more potent drugs (since the Families already sell marijuana and PCP), although Sweet refuses because he believes crack cocaine has a destructive influence on the communities it is sold in.
At some point, Big Smoke forms a clandestine alliance with the Ballas and begins to cooperate with them. Smoke later includes the Los Santos Vagos and the Russian Mafia , who were hoping to get a foothold in Los Santos , into his new alliance. They also form an alliance with the Loco Syndicate , who began supplying them with various drugs from their base in San Fierro , although unbeknownst to the group, an undercover government agent is monitoring the operation.
In 1992 , after failing to convince Sweet, he goes to Ryder and convinces him to join forces with the Ballas , who later attempt to kill Sweet but fail, instead killing his mother . The death of Beverly Johnson leads to her son, Carl, returning from Liberty City , and Carl meets Smoke inside his childhood house . Smoke initially mistook Carl for a burglar, but immediately accepts the return of his old friend, contrary to Sweet, who remains initially hostile. It is not until later in the game that his true intentions with the Ballas- C.R.A.S.H. unit are revealed, but on several occasions prior to his exposure as a traitor, many subtle hints appear foreshadowing it.
Smoke appears alongside Carl, Sweet and Ryder at the funeral of several GSF members. However, during the mission, the attackers will only attack Carl and Sweet, avoiding Smoke and Ryder. He also appears playing basketball with Sweet in Tagging Up Turf , and also briefly appears in Cleaning the Hood at Sweet's house. In the mission Drive-Thru , Sweet, Carl, Smoke and Ryder decide to eat at Cluckin' Bell ; however, they are attacked by Ballas whilst eating. Smoke's refusal to shoot at the Ballas (claiming that he would only shoot when he was done eating) was another hint to his betrayal.
After appearing in the introductory scene of Nines and AK's , Smoke later helped the gang in the mission Drive-By . After this, Smoke gives his own missions to Carl; the first is to collect OG Loc from Pershing Square police station as he has been paroled from prison. The next is to help Smoke eliminate a Vagos member. In the mission Wrong Side of the Tracks , before Smoke and Carl work to kill more Vagos, Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski are seen leaving Smoke's house; however, Smoke's comment that they are simply "nosey" hints that he is not so hostile towards them. Carl would then later assist Smoke in taking down Russian Mafia members in the mission Just Business , and Smoke would later assist Carl, Ryder and Sweet in the mission Reuniting the Families .
Big Smoke and Ryder with Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski , driving the green Sabre .
After Sweet explains to CJ that he is going to go to the Mulholland Intersection to ambush some Ballas members, Cesar Vialpando , the boyfriend of Sweet and Carl's sister Kendl and also a friend of Carl's, phones Carl and tells him that he must urgently come to an alleyway in Verdant Bluffs . Carl meets Cesar in the alleyway, where the duo witness Smoke and Ryder, along with C.R.A.S.H. officers Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski , and also some more Ballas members with the car used in the drive-by shooting that killed Beverly Johnson. Carl finally realises the true colours of Smoke and Ryder and how they are complicit in his mother 's death , but he is unable to confront the alliance between the game's three antagonistic groups ( C.R.A.S.H. , Ballas , Smoke/Ryder) and is forced to go to Mulholland Intersection to save his brother from a Ballas ambush during a shootout. Sweet is injured during the shootout, but Carl is uninjured and continues fighting the Ballas. The police arrive and the duo are arrested, with Sweet taken to a prison hospital upstate and Carl to Angel Pine in Whetstone by Tenpenny, Pulaski and Jimmy Hernandez .
In the absence of both Sweet and Carl, Smoke and Ryder disband the Grove Street Families, leaving Ganton and all other Grove Street territory in the hands of the Ballas. A few Grove Street Families members, meanwhile, begin working as drug smugglers , taking them from the Loco Syndicate factory in Doherty , San Fierro back to Los Santos. Cesar Vialpando, discovers this and alerts Carl Johnson, who stops a number of the suppliers from reaching Los Santos in order to disrupt the flow of drugs into the city. Carl and Cesar later photograph Ryder with three men, later identified as Jizzy B. , T-Bone Mendez and Mike Toreno . Carl, upon returning to his garage in San Fierro has Wu Zi Mu and his Triad allies discover more about the trio.
Carl then begins to work for Jizzy B, attempting to gather more information on the operation, and later gains his trust. Carl, however, later kills Jizzy, San Fierro Rifa leader T-Bone Mendez and undercover agent Mike Toreno (or so he thought) as well as Ryder, before destroying their drug manufacturing factory, stopping the supply back to Los Santos. Smoke, however, is undeterred and instead starts his manufacturing plant in East Los Santos . He also begins working as the manager of OG Loc, an aspiring rapper and childhood friend of both Smoke and Carl, who aided him by sabotaging the career of rap superstar Madd Dogg . He also attempts to style himself as a philanthropist when he is interviewed on West Coast Talk Radio (which can be heard on the radio any time after the mission Pier 69 ) saying that he is using his money to try and stop the sale of drugs in Los Santos, despite being the major drug baron of the city.
Big Smoke, like Ryder, continues to wear green clothing after his betrayal of the Grove Street Families becomes common knowledge. This is because Big Smoke and Ryder only have one coded outfit.
In the meantime, Carl is reunited with Toreno, who used a decoy on his scheduled departing flight, and begins working for him attacking those harming American interests. In return, Toreno has Sweet released from prison and the Johnson brothers return home , reclaiming Ganton for the Grove Street Families, who once again ally themselves with the formerly absent leaders. By this time, Smoke had undergone a personality shift; he had become increasingly paranoid, reclusive, hateful of the world around him and had a massive loss of self-esteem. He secluded himself in his drug manufacturing plant smoking crack, away from the massive riots engulfing the streets of Los Santos. Sweet and Carl continue their attack on the Ballas, retaking both Glen Park (in Beat Down on B Dup ) and Idlewood (in Grove 4 Life ).
Carl Johnson confronting Big Smoke in his drug manufacturing factory , shortly before a shootout and Smoke's death, during End of the Line .
The Johnsons then decide to take down Big Smoke and his operation, using a SWAT Tank to break into his drug manufacturing plant. Carl then proceeds to shoot his way past the many Ballas, Los Santos Vagos, Russian Mafia and San Fierro Rifa goons in the factory to reach the top floor, where he finds Big Smoke keeping himself occupied with a gaming console and a crack bong. The two get involved in a gunfight, which is won by Carl, who manages to talk to Smoke about his betrayal before his death. Smoke, showing remorse for his actions, tells Carl that he "got caught up" in the money and power he was able to obtain. He reminds Carl that when he is dead, people "will remember his name" before dying from his wounds inflicted by Carl. Carl shows remorse for Smoke but is interrupted by Tenpenny. Carl flees the burning crack palace and chases Tenpenny. The story comes to an end when Tenpenny crashes the Fire Truck he is driving off the bridge over Grove Street, before dying of his injuries in the middle of Grove Street.
Big Smoke is initially introduced into the game as a cheerful yet somewhat reckless friend of Carl. Unlike Sweet, who frequently scolded Carl for being a "busta" due to him leaving Los Santos and holding him responsible for the death of their brother , Big Smoke frequently comforts the grieving Carl and encourages him to work for the gang, even promising to find the people responsible for his mother 's death, despite being responsible for the drive-by shooting that (albeit inadvertently) killed her.
Big Smoke occasionally finds himself at odds with the Los Santos Vagos due to their frequent dispute with the drug business (not revealed to the player until after his betrayal), and he often decided to confront them with Carl's assistance. Though his recklessness has occasionally placed him in a dangerous situation, such as when the drug deal with the Russian Mafia went awry and Carl had to save him during the ambush and subsequent chase .
Another notable trait of Big Smoke is his appetite. He occasionally orders and consumes an unhealthy amount of junk food to satisfy his hunger, causing the other Families members to quip about his weight, to which Smoke responded that he was just "more well-fed" and "big-boned" than the others, and that he "ain't never ate from a trash can." This behavior is often used as comic relief, especially during the mission Drive-Thru , in which Big Smoke places the now famous order from Cluckin' Bell and even steals Ryder's food during the chase with the Ballas, justifying his refusal to attack the Ballas as not wanting to spoil his food.
Big Smoke often portrays himself as a mentor of Carl. He uses a Bible quote to teach Carl to be "ice cold" and tells Carl to "remember me when you get to the top", to Carl's amusement or irritation.
After Carl discovered Smoke's and Ryder's betrayals, Frank Tenpenny later revealed that he and C.R.A.S.H. were responsible for Smoke's betrayal, after he gives Smoke and Ryder "a lesson" and makes him "do what exactly he's told" from Tenpenny.
Following Carl's exile from Los Santos, Carl ventured around the state of San Andreas and became a highly successful individual. Big Smoke, meanwhile, became increasingly more reclusive and paranoid. He locked himself inside his drug factory surrounded by bodyguards and wore body armor at all times, claiming that "all crazy cats out there want a piece of me". When he confronts Carl for the final time , Smoke expressed his hatred for Tenpenny, his right-hand man , and the police . Smoke tells Carl he knows about his success and asks Carl why he wants to settle the score, even though Carl has "got the whole world" with him and that Smoke is forced to stay inside due to him feeling that "the whole world" is against him. Smoke showed no remorse for his decisions, describing himself as "a success" who "can't be touched".
After the gunfight, a dying Smoke began to feel remorse for his decisions. He confessed to Carl that he got "caught up in the money and the power" from his decisions. He claims that despite the fact he "had no choice" and "had to do it" because of Tenpenny's manipulation, he saw it as an "opportunity" to be remembered by everyone in Los Santos.
In the end, the legacy that Big Smoke wished everyone to "remember [his] name" by is a tainted one. Big Smoke is viewed by the Johnson siblings as a selfish individual who "saw things a little differently than us" and sought a chance to become a "celebrity" by any means necessary, even if it meant betraying his friends and the gang. Carl even offered to help Smoke fight Tenpenny back had he told him about Tenpenny's plans much earlier, but Smoke simply dismissed it to pursue his own ambitions to become the successful individual who leaves an everlasting impact, even if it cost him his "whole world" and led to his eventual demise.
Big Smoke is a large man with a goatee. He is seen sporting a black bowler hat and black square glasses. He wears a green short-sleeve button-down shirt with a white undershirt, along with blue jeans and black dress shoes. Judging by his character in the beta, he is very likely bald without his hat on.
The beta version of Big Smoke is shown wearing a white Los Santos Saints jersey and black trousers, with Smoke having a bald head, which can be seen on the statue of Smoke in the drug manufacturing factory in East Los Santos . Or on the back of the PS2 case (Top, Middle) and also Sweet , and Ryder without his hat and his sunglasses. [ 3 ]
Similar to other members of the Grove Street Families , big Smoke's physical appearance seems to be inspired by the Californian rapper E-40 , particularly his portrayal of Mike in the 2000 movie 3 Strikes , which was both directed and written by DJ Pooh , also starring Faizon Love , Shawn Fonteno , and Yolanda Whittaker . This is further evident in his beta attire , where he wore a yellow shirt instead of a green one.
Big Smoke's license plate A2TMFK.
Big Smoke drove a blue Glendale with a white roof, which has the license plate A2TMFK . Opinions on the meaning of this are varied: Some believe it to be an acronym for "a two-timing motherfucker", a reference to his betrayal of the Grove Street Families. Some believe it to be an acronym for "a two-ton motherfucker", a reference to his weight, and some believe it to be a reference to the Cypress Hill song "A to the motherfucking K", which was released in 1993 (one year after the events of GTA San Andreas ).
He previously drove a black Perennial , until it was destroyed by the Ballas in a drive-by shooting.
Official PlayStation 2 Magazine AU July 2004
Lance Wilson [ 1 ] , more commonly known as Ryder , is the tertiary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by MC Eiht .
Ryder is a high-ranking member of the Grove Street Families who later joined forces with the Ballas , Vagos and C.R.A.S.H.
Ryder is a drug user, something known by both Sweet and Carl, and he can usually be seen with or searching for his 'water', which is in fact PCP mixed with cannabis . During the mission Home Invasion he can be seen frantically searching for it in his garden, having already dug numerous holes with a shovel .
Ryder's short stature is often commented on by many characters, with Kendl Johnson , Cesar Vialpando , Frank Tenpenny , and the Pizza Clerk calling Ryder a 'midget'.
Ryder was born in Los Santos , most likely in Ganton due to his close relationship with Sweet and Carl Johnson . Ryder was expelled from high school for assaulting a teacher who was wearing Ballas colors, although Ryder claims he was 'too intelligent' for school. It is also revealed that Ryder has been a drug dealer since the age of ten.
At an unknown point in time, Ryder joined the Grove Street Families street gang, eventually rising through the ranks of the gang until becoming one of Sweet's closest allies, being helped by the departure of Carl Johnson in 1987 following his brother's death. The Grove Street Families, however, began to lose influence, power and money to their arch rivals, the Ballas, due to their stance against the sale of drugs, which was fueling the Ballas rise to prominence.
Big Smoke attempted to convince Sweet about the benefits of selling drugs but failed, later meeting Ryder in his house where he convinces him to join his newly formed alliance with the Ballas. The alliance is later expanded to include the Los Santos Vagos and Russian Mafia , while another was established with the Loco Syndicate , who began supplying the new alliance with drugs from their base in San Fierro , although they do not realise that an undercover government agent is involved in the operation.
The death of Beverly Johnson brings her son, Carl Johnson, back to Los Santos from Liberty City . Johnson meets Ryder again shortly after the funeral where they are attacked by a group of Ballas in a drive-by shooting , destroying Smoke's car . Carl, Sweet, Smoke and Ryder flee the area on BMX bicycles . The four cycle to Mulholland Intersection where Sweet breaks away from the group, distracting the Ballas vehicle, allowing Carl, Smoke and Ryder to escape. The three are briefly followed again by a Ballas car , although the Ballas do not aim their guns at Smoke and Ryder due to their clandestine alliance, a fact missed by the Johnson brothers. Smoke also refuses to shoot at a Ballas car performing a drive-by shooting , claiming he did not wish to waste the food they had just ordered, although Ryder does start shooting at the Ballas.
Ryder continues his life as normal with the Grove Street Families, often being seen with Sweet and Carl. He begins to hire Carl to do various tasks, the first being to drive to The Well Stacked Pizza Co. fast-food restaurant in Idlewood , where Ryder attempted to rob the store but was thwarted by the manager, using a shotgun in self-defense. Ryder later assists Carl to kill a drug dealer and then a number of Ballas gangsters who were associated with the dealer in a home in Idlewood. Ryder also hires Carl to help him steal weapons from the home of Colonel Fuhrberger in East Beach , steal a weapons shipment from a train coming from Las Venturas and to steal weapons from the National Guard Depot in Ocean Docks .
Ryder later accompanies Carl, Sweet and Smoke to the Cluckin' Bell fast-food restaurant in Willowfield , where they see a group Ballas attempt a drive-by shooting. The four survive and destroy the Ballas car. Ryder is again seen when the four discuss the gang's weapons and later performs a number of drive-by shootings with the three in East Los Santos and Jefferson . He also attended a party thrown by OG Loc on Grove Street .
Sweet later arranges a meeting at the Jefferson Motel between the various subdivisions of the Grove Street Families, in an attempt to bring the factions back together to fight against the Ballas.
Ryder, upon arriving with Sweet, Carl and Smoke, criticises the non-Grove Street gangsters, which Carl and Sweet do not realize is an attack on the gang rather than the subdivisions. Sweet enters the motel on his own and, when the Los Santos Police Department ambush the meeting, Ryder and Smoke flee the scene in Sweet's Greenwood . The two, however, later reappear at the side of the motel and escape with Carl and Sweet from the pursuing police, driving the car through a Sprunk billboard. The car explodes upon landing on the road below while the four, who had bailed out of the car, decide to go back home seperately.
Ryder and Big Smoke with Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski , driving the green Sabre .
After Sweet explains to CJ that he is going to go to the Mulholland Intersection to ambush some Ballas members, Cesar Vialpando , the boyfriend of Sweet and Carl's sister Kendl and also a friend of Carl's, phones Carl and tells him that he must urgently come to an alleyway in Verdant Bluffs . Carl meets Cesar in the alleyway, where the duo witness Smoke and Ryder, along with C.R.A.S.H. officers Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski , and also some more Ballas members with the car used in the killing of Carl's mother. Deeply shocked, Carl finally realises the true colours of Smoke and Ryder and how they are complicit in his mother 's death , but he is unable to confront the alliance between the game's three antagonistic groups ( C.R.A.S.H. , Ballas , Big Smoke /Ryder) and is forced to go to Mulholland Intersection to save his brother from a Ballas ambush during a shootout. Sweet is injured during the shootout, but Carl continues fighting the Ballas. The police arrive and the duo are arrested, with Sweet taken to a prison hospital 'upstate' and Carl to Angel Pine in Whetstone by Tenpenny, Pulaski and Jimmy Hernandez .
In the absence of both Sweet and Carl, Smoke and Ryder take control of the Grove Street Families and add them to their alliance. Tenpenny orders Carl to stay out of Los Santos or else Sweet will be put in danger. With both their leaders out of Los Santos, the Grove Street Families turf is taken over by the Ballas, with Families members now working for Smoke and Ryder by taking drug shipments from the Loco Syndicate drug manufacturing plant in Doherty , San Fierro back to Los Santos. Cesar Vialpando, however, later discovers this and informs Carl, who stops a number of the shipments from reaching Los Santos. Carl later moves to San Fierro, but with Cesar's help, later photographs Ryder and the other Loco Syndicate members doing business in the mission Photo Opportunity .
Ryder with T-Bone Mendez on Pier 69 , shortly before their deaths.
After obtaining the photographs, Carl returns to San Fierro and has them developed. He meets with Wu Zi Mu , a leading member of the Triads in San Fierro and his assistant , who identifies the three leaders as Jizzy B. , a nightclub owner , T-Bone Mendez , the leader of the San Fierro Rifa , and the gang's leader , although they are unaware that he is an undercover government agent.
In the mission Pier 69 , Ryder and Mendez are in a deal—after using Wu Zi Mu's Triad army to help subdue the gangs, Cesar and Carl kill Mendez. Ryder will then attempt to flee in a boat; Carl kills him by either sniping him whilst he swims to it, or by chasing and shooting him down whilst seaborne.
Following Ryder's death, Cesar tells Carl that Ryder once tried to have sex with Kendl. Although Carl responded as a protective brother would, he still seemed to regret having to kill his lifelong friend.
Ryder is depicted as loud, wild, and unpredictable. He is known to go into rampages and always attempt the impossible. Ryder has a peerless mean streak and an extremely short temper, making him the loose cannon of the Grove Street Families . He also has delusions of grandeur and a possible Napoleon complex , stemming from his short stature. He sees himself as a "genius" and thinks he is too intelligent for school. He has a habit of boasting about mediocre accomplishments, such as claiming that he showed the Ballas in the Mission "Sweet and Kendl" how bad he was despite never actually confronting them (ignoring the fact that they are secretly allies). Furthermore, Ryder is also very brusque, as he rudely states his terse opinions of CJ since the latter's return to Los Santos and has the tendency to belittle him. Though Ryder is very passionate of the Grove Street Families, he is also easily convinced by Big Smoke to make a little cash despite the fact that it means turning on his own gang. Ryder's impulsive and wild attitude is possibly due to his drug addiction, for he is almost always seen holding a joint in each cutscene he appears in. Though his history is unknown, it is implied that he was once a rebellious and belligerent child due to CJ saying in the mission Robbing Uncle Sam that he once beat up a teacher just for wearing purple, which is a color used by the Ballas .
Despite turning on his own gang and CJ, in the whole series of events, including the deadly hunt on him by CJ, Ryder never shows any attempt to kill or harm CJ (unless in the mission Pier 69 if CJ destroys the boats near the island and swims to it, he will engage CJ with his fists), even when the latter finally kills him in the mission Pier 69. During the aforementioned mission, he can be seen wielding an AK47 before the meet with T-Bone, although he never attempts to fight against CJ during the mission. This along with several other instances throughout the game, shows that Ryder while having a high opinion of himself is actually a coward hiding behind a tough facade. Examples of this include abandoning CJ during "Home Invasion" if the mission is failed by alerting the Colonel before enough guns are secured. Ryder also flees when trying to rob the Pizza Stack Co. in his self-titled mission after the employee threatens him and CJ with a shotgun, despite being armed himself. This shows Ryder to be something of a hypocrite as well as he frequently accuses CJ of a 'Busta' (faker) despite being no more determined himself. The only occasions where Ryder displays a degree of bravery is when he has considerable backup or is particularly high on his 'water'.
He commonly says " jeah / geah " , which is a term commonly used by his voice actor MC Eiht instead of saying "yeah" .
Ryder has short, dark, bushy hair and a mustache. He wears a black cap that reads "San Andreas" and black sunglasses. Moreover, he wears a dark green jacket, similar to the Grn (Green) Windbreaker from Sub Urban . He also has blue jeans with black and white sneakers.
Ryder owns a brown Picador with a number plate which spells out SHERM , referring to his addiction to sherm (as Carl also calls him a "sherm head" in Photo Opportunity ), a cigarette with marijuana mixed into the tobacco that has been immersed in PCP. In many pre-release screenshots, Ryder's vehicle was a brown Sadler .
In the beta stage(s) of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Ryder's appearance was different, much like that of CJ, Sweet, and Big Smoke. Originally, he wore no hat and no glasses. Instead of curly, bushy hair, he had cornrows. He wore a black hoodie with the same pants as in the final version, but wore black sneakers similar to the Black Hi-Tops from Sub Urban. This iteration of Ryder's appearance may have resembled the rapper and music producer Snoop Dogg , before his final version resembled Eazy-E .
Sean "Sweet" Johnson [ 1 ] is the deuteragonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Faizon Love .
Sweet is the leader of the Grove Street Families gang, which is based in Ganton , Los Santos . He is the eldest child of Beverly Johnson and the elder brother of Carl , Kendl , and Brian . Sweet is also shown to have an unnamed girlfriend in two missions.
Sweet was born to Beverly Johnson and an unnamed father in Los Santos . He was later present at the births of his three younger siblings, Carl, Kendl, and Brian. Carl described Sweet as "the man of the house", since they barely knew their father. Sweet was also often bringing necessary money to the family through robbing other people. After 1987 , Sweet became the leader of the Grove Street Families and recruited Big Smoke . Later on, Ryder and Carl joined the gang. Sweet's youngest brother Brian died in an accident, which Sweet blamed on Carl; this resulted in Carl leaving for Liberty City . Sweet then moved out into his own house , two doors down from his childhood home. As stated by Big Bear during a deleted dialogue between himself and CJ, after Brian's death and CJ's departure, Sweet became a "hard man to be with", and when the Seville Boulevard and Temple Drive sets split up from the Grove, Sweet did nothing about this, which was one of the major factors in Big Bear's defection, and Grove Street's loss of power and influence.
Throughout the game, Sweet is seen to have two different girlfriends, one of which Carl saved . However, since Sweet shows little to no attention when Carl throws his girl out near the end of the game, it is implied that Sweet and her are not in a relationship and he only has one girlfriend.
Sweet continued to lead the Grove Street Families, whose influence began to decline as their rivals began to manufacture and sell drugs . His childhood friend, Big Smoke, attempted to convince him to start selling drugs to help the Grove Street Families, but Sweet refused. The Ballas, with whom Big Smoke and Ryder are now connected, plot to kill Sweet and perform a drive-by shooting at the Johnson House. The gang, however, instead miss Sweet altogether and kill his mother instead, which results in Carl returning from Liberty City.
At the funeral, Sweet and his sister Kendl are reunited with their brother Carl. Sweet angered Kendl by insulting her boyfriend , and berated Carl for missing both their brother's and mother's funerals. Sweet's dislike of Carl, prior to his return to Los Santos, is seen during The Introduction where he states that Carl "has his own life, more than he deserves", and that he "can rot in hell for all I give a fuck".
Sweet did not trust Carl on his return, but he later realized his true intentions of staying and helping the Grove Street Families. This resulted in a closer relationship.
Sweet then decided to have Carl work for the gang, including to putting the gang tag across Los Santos' poorer districts, killing some Ballas drug dealers , killing some Ballas attempting a drive-by , and meeting an old friend and killing Ballas gang members in Jefferson . He also had Carl meet Kendl's boyfriend Cesar Vialpando , member of the rival gang Varrios Los Aztecas , with Carl reporting that he will be good to Kendl.
Sweet's leadership and the gang's continued decline began to lead to factions within the Grove Street Families agitating to break away. This is shown during Sweet's Girl , where Sweet phones his brother requesting help to escape from the Seville Boulevard Families, who have cornered him and his girlfriend in Playa del Seville . Carl manages to rescue them and later Sweet arranges a meeting for the various factions, including the Temple Drive Families, which is interrupted by the police . The gang, however, continue to do well despite the fractions, with Carl taking control of Glen Park and killing Kane , a high-ranked Ballas member.
Sweet is later involved in a shootout with various Ballas members, who attack in seemingly endless waves of vans. He is shot during the shootout, but is saved from death due to the assistance of Carl and three other Grove Street Families members, although Carl does inform Sweet of the betrayal of Big Smoke and Ryder and their alliance with Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski of C.R.A.S.H. The police show up on the scene and arrest both Sweet and Carl. Sweet is later imprisoned in a prison hospital "upstate", while Carl is taken to Angel Pine by Tenpenny, Pulaski and Jimmy Hernandez and begins his life in exile in the rural part of the state of San Andreas .
Carl continues to work his way up the criminal underworld in San Fierro and becomes aware of the Loco Syndicate , led by Jizzy B. , T-Bone Mendez and Mike Toreno , who are selling drugs to members of the Los Santos Vagos , who are in alliance with Big Smoke, the Ballas and the Russian Mafia . Carl begins working for them, allowing his new Triad allies to find out more about their dealings. Carl later kills Jizzy , T-Bone Mendez and seemingly obliterating Mike Toreno , along with former ally Ryder. He later receives a phone call from an unknown man who reveals himself to be Mike Toreno, who had sent another man as a decoy during Toreno's Last Flight . Carl begins to work for the government agent and his work is rewarded, as Toreno helps secure the release of Sweet, who is released during Home Coming .
During his imprisonment, Sweet was taken "upstate" and placed in cell 13 of the prison's D-wing, according to Mike Toreno in the mission Interdiction . The prisoner in his cell to the left was a child killer who wanted to rip his throat out, and to the right was a white supremacist who wanted to eat his heart. Mike Toreno also ensures Sweet's safety during incarceration, as he reassures to Carl that if "he gets touched, a prison guard goes home and finds that his wife and kids have been murdered".
Sweet meeting Carl Johnson in Pershing Square after being released from prison, during Home Coming .
Carl tells Sweet of his and Kendl's new life in San Fierro and Las Venturas , trying to convince him to move away from the hood. Sweet, however, insists on returning to Ganton and, upon on their return, they retake control of the area. Sweet then accompanies Carl as the two re-take Glen Park and rescue Big Bear from the clutches of the drug dealer B Dup , with Sweet taking him to rehab. Carl is then instructed to take control of Idlewood , one of the districts neighboring Ganton.
During this time, Frank Tenpenny had finally been charged with racketeering, corruption, narcotics, and sexual assault. However, he was found not guilty due to Carl killing most of the witnesses under Tenpenny's orders and is released, resulting in riots across Los Santos' poorer districts. Sweet, who had joined Carl, Kendl, Cesar, The Truth , Maccer and Madd Dogg to watch the news at Madd Dogg's mansion , is then driven home by Carl.
Shortly afterwards, Sweet orders Carl to "pay back his debts" and help Cesar retake his neighborhood from the Vagos in return for the countless times that Cesar helped them and their gang.
Sweet, Carl Johnson , Cesar Vialpando and Kendl Johnson witnessing the last moments of Frank Tenpenny in Grove Street , during End of the Line .
Shortly afterwards, the two brothers decide to take on the Ballas, stop their drug manufacturing and kill Big Smoke . Beforehand, however, Sweet has Carl take over many territories all over Los Santos in order to obtain concrete information about Big Smoke's location, and after Carl successfully does so, Carl breaks into the manufacturing plant and kills Big Smoke, despite Ballas , Los Santos Vagos , San Fierro Rifa and Russian Mafia members attempting to stop him. After killing Smoke, Carl is interrupted by Frank Tenpenny, who sets fire to some of the machinery. Carl, however, manages to escape out of the building just in time to see Tenpenny escape in a fire truck .
Sweet, however, grabs hold of one of the truck's ladders, furious for Tenpenny's actions. Carl then drives after his brother in an open-top Feltzer , which Sweet eventually drops into. Sweet takes the wheel and the two give chase, fending off the police and rival gang members. The two continue to chase Tenpenny until he crashes his fire truck, which goes over a bridge and crashing into Grove Street . Sweet and Carl, along with Kendl, Cesar and The Truth, then watch Tenpenny die from his injuries sustained from the accident after he climbs out of the truck's cabin. Carl prepares to shoot Tenpenny to "make sure it's over", but Sweet restrains him, declaring Tenpenny died in a traffic accident to ensure that his death cannot be pinned on the gang.
The five then return to the Johnson House and are joined by Madd Dogg , Ken Rosenberg , Maccer and Kent Paul as they celebrate their newfound success.
Sweet is described in the C.R.A.S.H. dossier (viewable in the instruction manual) as "naive, but powerful". He is intensely loyal to his neighborhood but he can be harshly judgmental of people. As leader of the Grove Street Families, he idealistically thought of using them as a means to keep crack and other hard drugs off the streets, and even when GSF's influence began to wane, he refused to compromise family and friends, and originally founded the Grove Street Families as a way of keeping his hood safe. When CJ leaves for Liberty City after Brian's death, he views it as a betrayal of both the gang and his family and is reluctant to forgive him. Once CJ has proven himself, however, Sweet angrily stands up for him when others insult him. Due to his loyalty, Sweet is also extremely provincial, refusing to leave the hood and failing to show interest in the world outside of Grove Street.
While in prison, Sweet becomes despondent and gives up hope of ever getting out. After his release from prison , Sweet becomes angry at CJ over his decision to abandon Grove Street. He refuses to go and see any of the properties CJ has acquired and returns to his house in Ganton. However, in the end the two brothers manage to take back Grove Street and get rid of Tenpenny.
Unlike the leaders of the Ballas and the Los Santos Vagos, Sweet is not a coward and often leads attacks on the rival gangs' home turf.
Sweet has a black goatee with stubble across his jaw. He wears a green cap with an "LS" logo (presumably standing for Los Santos) and a green plain t-shirt with a white undershirt and blue jeans with blue shoes. The shoes are similar to the Hi-Tops from Sub Urban , which can be purchased by the player.
Sweet owns a bright blue Greenwood , with a licence plate reading GROVE4L ("Grove 4 Life").
It is destroyed during the mission Reuniting the Families , after being driven through a Sprunk billboard, falling onto the highway below and colliding with a petrol tanker. Sweet later purchases an identical car, and when Carl complains that he can't believe that Sweet "bought that same bucket-ass car", Sweet comments that "if it ain't broke, don't fix it".
The beta version of Sweet wore a black T-shirt, a long-sleeved white undershirt, black trousers and black skully, which can be seen in a picture inside the Johnson House . He is seen with Kendl. Note that there is a very similar pedestrian in the game as well.
The "final" version of Sweet also wore a white, long-sleeved undershirt, as seen from the first trailer.
Lance Vance is the tritagonist turned secondary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and the deuteragonist in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
He is voiced by Philip Michael Thomas , who played Ricardo Tubbs in the 1980s television series Miami Vice .
Lance is a cocaine dealer who worked in the cocaine trade with his brother, Victor Vance (the protagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories ). Lance piloted the helicopter and Vic conducted the deals themselves. The two are the main members of the Vance Crime Family , with Vic as the boss.
Lance Vance was born to a white mother, Janet Vance , and his father immigrated from the Dominican Republic.
He and his two brothers, Victor and Pete , grew up in poverty. Because their mother had a drug addiction, they were raised by their Aunt Enid who they, especially Lance, see as their sole maternal figure. Lance was often teased about his name in school, which he is still very sensitive about (when he works with Ricardo Diaz , he lies that his name is Quentin). During the mission Phnom Penh '86 , Tommy Vercetti jokingly laughs at Lance, teasing "Vance? Your name's Lance Vance?!" and then "Lance Vance. Poor bastard." According to Vic, Lance got kicked out of the Boy Scouts in his youth. Vic always treated Lance like a little kid and Lance would get them both in trouble, patterns that continued well into their adult lives.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , set two years before the events of GTA Vice City , Lance is first mentioned by Vic (telling his sergeant, Jerry Martinez , that Pete is sick with asthma, and implying that Lance is sick in a psychological way, as well as messages from their Aunt Enid).
Lance arrives from his home and slowly ushers Vic into drug trafficking. They work with Bryan Forbes before discovering that he's an undercover cop with VCPD and the brothers take him hostage. Forbes often attempts escape and tries to trick the brothers, even leading them to a white supremacist gay bar .
Lance then suggests stealing a large shipment of drugs from Martinez. After Vic calls Martinez to mock him, Martinez reveals that he was allied with the Mendez Brothers , two powerful drug lords who are now out for the Vance's blood.
Lance also becomes addicted to his own cocaine , as does Vic's girlfriend Louise Cassidy-Williams , who both hide their habit from Vic. Lance often blames the missing drugs on their addict mother or a biker gang. Vic finds out and first accuses them of an affair, to which they respond that they only get high as friends and call him judgmental (a criticism Vic often receives).
When Louise is kidnapped and eventually killed by the Mendez brothers (with whom they'd briefly made peace before a second war), Lance shows little feeling for her and tries to console Vic by saying family is more important (namely, himself). He only becomes involved with the Mendez war after their hitmen destroy his car.
Shortly after Victor kills both Diego and Martinez, Lance arrives in a black and yellow Maverick supposedly coming to help him; however, as the battle has already ended, the brothers agree to lay low for a while and get out of town. Lance offers Victor twenty kilos of cocaine for a deal ahead; however, Victor denies his interests and says that he doesn't ever want to touch drugs again, and that he'll send some money to their sick brother, Pete, for the medical treatment required.
It is implied by a few unused lines from the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City introduction mission In The Beginning... that they stashed the twenty kilos of cocaine in a farm in Panama . It is unknown if this statement is still considered canon, although it is still implied during the final cutscene of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
In 1986, Lance flies Victor to a cocaine deal with Sonny Forelli 's men when Victor is shot by a third party ambushing the deal. Lance, still in the helicopter, flies away unscathed.
Lance meets Tommy Vercetti, the surviving Forelli mobster from the deal, when the latter kills Leo Teal , a cook/hitman who knew something about the deal. They agree to help each other get revenge, though Tommy is slowly beginning to accept Lance.
Lance on the surface appears cool and collected, but he is very impulsive. His quest for vengeance against Diaz, the boss who betrayed them in the first place, results in his capture and torture by Diaz's men, and he is only saved from death in the nick of time by Tommy, who had risked his own life to save Lance's fighting through a swarm of Diaz's men. Lance redeems himself by supplying the M4 Carbines to Tommy, which the two of them use to finish off Diaz and his Colombian gang.
After Lance and Tommy overthrow Diaz, Lance constantly complains about being treated like a little kid (such as after Cop Land ) and becomes irritated by Tommy's attitude and dominance in the gang. The only instance Tommy shouts at Lance is during the cut scene of the mission Bar Brawl for his mistake. Tommy never told Lance to not establish himself while Tommy built his empire, but all Lance did was complain and expect everything to be handed to him on a silver platter. Shortly before Sonny Forelli's arrival, Tommy declares the Vercetti business as "his operation", implying that he views the criminal enterprise as a sole proprietorship rather than a partnership, as he did all the hard work in purchasing and establishing his assets and raising his gang while Lance just complained.
Eventually, Lance betrays Tommy for Sonny, revealing that the cash payment was counterfeit, which prompts Sonny to invade the Vercetti Estate with a large number of gunmen.
In the ensuing gunfight, Tommy confronts and kills Lance on the roof of the mansion. Having killed the remaining Forelli henchmen in the process, Tommy proceeds to kill Sonny and cement his power in Vice City once and for all.
Lance can be seen as an action figure in Zero RC along with Tommy, James Earl Cash , and Piggsy , the latter two from Manhunt , in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , circa 1992 . A billboard depicting a character using his model (with the face model of Cam Jones ) can be found around the state. His character art can also be seen on the Jack of Spades card while playing Poker in Las Venturas .
In a PC World article , Lance was voted as #17 of the top 47 "most diabolical videogame villains of all time."
Lance is a carefree, cheerful, yet extremely short-tempered, loud-mouthed, and egotistical person. He is depicted as being lazy and self-centered, and frequently brags to and provokes his enemy, often while referring to himself in the third-person.
Because of his poor upbringing and failures during his childhood, Lance developed a sense of insecurity, resulting in a selfish desire to become rich and powerful to prove that he has " changed " from his incompetent younger self, and will not care about the ways in which this could be achieved. Lance shows no hesitation in entering the drug business, as he could earn " big money for doing absolutely nothing. " Despite the game's depiction of Lance as being unreliable, he's not entirely stupid, as Lance is capable of striking business deals and plans by himself, but he would often let his emotions get ahead of him and foil his own plans.
Due to his selfishness, Lance usually refuses to help others unless his interests are at stake, and is also rarely willing to do the work himself unless he is motivated to do so for personal reasons. Despite this (or in spite of), Lance will often claim the credit for things he had no part in.
Throughout his life, Lance's temperamental attitude often put his life at risk, forcing his brother Vic to save him on multiple occasions. Despite this, and Vic's dismissive attitude towards Lance's antics, Lance deeply cared for Vic and Aunt Enid for their familial bonds. When Vic was killed two years later, Lance became so fixated with avenging his brother that he decided to attack Ricardo Diaz by himself, despite the carefully devised plan he and Tommy Vercetti had come up with earlier. Despite Lance’s shortcomings and incompetence at times, he is shown to be fearless, eagerly fighting alongside his brother or his partner in crime and coming out on top most of the time against very powerful criminal organisations such as the Mendez Cartel or the Diaz Cartel.
Lance is also deeply materialistic, as he is often seen spending money earned from the drug trade on luxury items and living a lavish lifestyle, such as his favorite car the Infernus and three different fancy suits he purchased abroad before the final mission of GTA Vice City Stories . In fact, a running gag of the series often involves Lance's Infernus being destroyed by someone, which results in him chasing down those responsible.
Ultimately, it was Lance himself who was his own worst enemy. Despite managing to avenge his brother and earning the respect of Tommy, who accepts him as an equal partner in his new drug empire, Lance chose to betray him to Sonny Forelli because of " business ", and that he " had enough " of being dismissed and looked down upon since his childhood. Perhaps it is poetic irony that, before his demise, Lance taunted Tommy that he has " no one to cover (his) ass now ", despite Lance himself being the one who was left alone by his own careless ambitions.
In GTA Vice City , he is always seen wearing a white soiree suit with a purple shirt. His artwork shows him wearing a light-purple suit. In GTA Vice City Stories , his outfit changes from a red shirt with jeans to a double breasted cyan suit.
During the mission Snitch Hitch in GTA Vice City Stories , Lance is seen ordering three suits (pink, blue and white) from the phone, before Victor throws it away, in which Lance tells the person on the other phone he'll talk to them later. The pink suit appears in his GTA Vice City artwork, the white appears is worn in GTA Vice City , and the blue is worn after From Zero to Hero in GTA Vice City Stories .
Lance is a well-dressed 32-year-old transient, just recently arrived to Vice City with his brother who got popped during Sonny Forelli's drug deal that went bad while under Tommy Vercetti's supervision. Now fighting alongside Tommy, Lance will stop at nothing to avenge his brother's death, no matter who steps up to the plate.
Lance is said to be 32 years old in 1986 in the BradyGames guide officially endorsed by Rockstar Games.
Sonny Forelli is the main antagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . He is also mentioned in The Introduction , a prequel for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and referenced in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
He was voiced by the late Tom Sizemore .
Sonny Forelli is an Italian-American mobster and the Don of the Liberty City -based Forelli Crime Family as of 1986 . A friend and the boss of GTA Vice City protagonist Tommy Vercetti , Sonny sends Vercetti to Vice City , wishing to establish drug trade businesses there.
Sonny was born into the Liberty City-based Forelli Crime Family , an Italian-American mob. Sonny joined the family's ranks, eventually rising to power at a young age. Under Sonny's reign, the Forellis became the most powerful crime organization in Liberty City, with Sonny having a major influence in the business of racketeering, gambling, union trouble, corruption and prostitution in the area.
Prior to the 1970s, Sonny became a friend and the boss of fellow mobster Tommy Vercetti, employing Tommy as his hitman. However, due to Tommy's rising reputation and power in Liberty City's underworld, the Forelli Don became disdainful towards Tommy.
In 1971 , Sonny sent Tommy to Harwood to assassinate a key mobster. However, when Tommy arrived, he found himself surrounded by eleven hitmen. Despite being outnumbered, Tommy managed to kill all the hitmen, but was arrested and convicted of eleven counts of murder. It is speculated that the eleven-man ambush was ordered by Sonny himself, though this was never confirmed. Tommy was spared the death penalty, instead being sentenced to fifteen years in prison.
Sonny discussing with fellow Forelli mobsters in Marco's Bistro .
By 1986 , the Forellis are still the most powerful organization in Liberty City, with Sonny wishing to enter the family into the drug dealing business. Due to Tommy being released from prison the same year, Sonny decides to send him to Vice City, wishing to have Tommy establish a drug trading business in the city while also keeping him far away from Liberty City, believing his presence in the city would hamper the family's business.
Ken Rosenberg , a Vice City-based lawyer who works for the Forellis, organizes a drug deal between the Forellis and Lance and Victor Vance , with the assistance of retired colonel Juan Cortez . Sonny sends Tommy and two Forelli associates, Harry and Lee , to conduct the deal in Viceport . However, the deal is ambushed by some hitmen hiding in a nearby compound who open fire on the group. Harry, Lee and Victor are killed, while Lance, Tommy and Ken flee, abandoning the cocaine and the money.
Sonny yelling at Tommy over the phone, after the drug deal.
Shortly afterwards, Tommy contacts Sonny from the Ocean View Hotel and informs him of the botched deal. Sonny is furious as Tommy also lost the money, but Tommy promises to find and punish the people responsible for the ambush. Sonny agrees to let Tommy find out who was responsible, but warns Tommy not to make a fool of him.
While Tommy continues searching for the suspects related to the drug deal, Sonny remains in contact with him. Throughout Tommy's time in Vice City, Sonny contacts him three times. In his first call, after Tommy has intimidated jurors who were on Sonny's cousin Giorgio's case, Sonny merely reminds Tommy to find the stolen money, while also warning him about being a potentially unreliable person.
Tommy eventually finds out that drug baron Ricardo Diaz was the man who ordered the hit on the drug deal, and kills him, slowly becoming the new crime lord in Vice City. After hearing about Tommy's latest actions while the latter didn't inform him of finding out and killing the man responsible, Sonny calls him again, warning him not to forget about the Forellis.
Irritated at Tommy for ignoring the Forellis, not giving them a cut from his businesses, and not even repaying his debt, Sonny calls Tommy again, furiously questioning him over his actions and lack of contact with the family. Sonny also threatens to have Ken's family killed.
Tired of waiting for Tommy to pay him from his cuts, Sonny sends his men over to Vice City to collect taxes from various assets and businesses owned by Tommy, beginning with the Print Works managed by Tommy's associate Earnest Kelly . However, Tommy learns of the Forellis' actions shortly afterwards, and eliminates Sonny's men , finally openly revealing his unwillingness to pay the Forellis, while also proclaiming that Vice City is his, not Sonny's.
Around this time, Tommy's associate Lance Vance, who has become very disillusioned with Tommy due to receiving little to no credit from him, is contacted by Sonny, who manages to have Lance turn his back on Tommy.
Tommy confronting Sonny and Lance Vance before their gunfight.
Anticipating Sonny's arrival in Vice City, Tommy prints counterfeit cash which he aims to give to Sonny. Upon Sonny's arrival at the Vercetti Estate and after a somewhat hostile exchange of words between Tommy and Sonny over their ruined friendship and business, Lance reveals his alliance with Sonny, and the location of Tommy's real money in the safe in the mansion's office.
A massive gunfight begins between Sonny's men and Tommy, although Sonny chooses to stay out of it initially. After killing Lance on the estate's roof, Tommy confronts Sonny at his mansion's entrance. He accuses Sonny of having orchestrated the ambush in Harwood; Sonny replies that he owns Tommy and that the fifteen years of incarceration were Sonny's to spend. Tommy engages in a final shootout with the Forelli Don and his men, concluding in Sonny's death.
A poster of Sonny Forelli: A Real Story , circa 1998 .
Sonny's demise marks the beginning of the Forelli crime family's downfall. His death is noted by Leone Family Don and fellow mobster Salvatore Leone to have dealt a severe blow to the Forellis, enough to let the Sindacco Family gain power in Liberty City by the 1990s. By 1998 , a film titled Sonny Forelli: A Real Story is advertised in Liberty City.
Sonny is shown to be a power-hungry, impulsive, ruthless and short-tempered man, becoming furious when things don't go in his way or get delayed, as shown through his phone calls with Tommy, where he eventually lost his temper and yelled at Tommy as his patience began to slowly decline.
He is willing to do anything to obtain more power, influence and money for himself and his organization, going as far as planning to enter the drug trade business, despite it traditionally being a no-go area for the Liberty City mafia families. He also had no qualms about betraying his friend and ally Tommy in 1971, simply out of jealousy and possible paranoia over the latter's rapid rise in reputation.
Despite his greed, Sonny appears to be a strong, charismatic and manipulative leader, and during his reign as a Don, the Forelli crime family was the most powerful crime organization in Liberty City, while his successors never achieved the same power or influence as he had. His charisma and manipulation also helped him in converting Lance Vance to his side, after the latter felt he was unappreciated by Tommy.
Sonny is a man of average size, who appears to be a bit overweight. His skin tone is fair, while his eyes are teal and his hair is dark brown, short and combed backwards. He wears a dark blue sport coat, animal print shirt, white dress pants and black shoes. In his official artwork , Sonny is seen wearing a pink business suit, and sunglasses.
Salvatore Leone is the secondary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto III , a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , and the deuteragonist of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
He is voiced by the late Frank Vincent .
Salvatore Leone is the Sicilian [ 1 ] Don of the Leone Crime Family , a major Mafia family based in Liberty City .
Salvatore was born in Palermo, Sicily . He once had a brother [ 1 ] , and was also close to one of his cousins (later killed by the Sindacco Crime Family ) [ 7 ] . He immigrated to Liberty City and with his first wife (who died, presumably by 1992 ) [ 5 ] , had a son named Joey [ 2 ] . It is unknown whether Joey was born in Sicily or the United States .
He took over the Leone crime family after a power struggle in the mid 1980s [ 1 ] , likely against his Uncle Leone [ 6 ] (as of 1998 , they were supposedly at peace but heavily distrusted each other in secret). By 1992 , he had purchased and moved into a mansion in Portland Beach , Liberty City.
Salvatore Leone in 1992 .
Salvatore agrees to give the Sindacco Family $ 5 million to invest in Caligula's Palace , a mega-resort in Las Venturas , one third owned by each of them and the Forelli Crime Family [ 9 ] . Salvatore negotiates control beyond his share, such as control of the books [ 10 ] and his choice of a supposedly neutral manager, lawyer Ken Rosenberg , that Salvatore could control [ 11 ] .
While in Las Venturas, Salvatore befriends Carl Johnson , who had worked in a car theft ring for his son Joey Leone in Liberty City sometime between 1987 and 1992 [ 12 ] . He slowly trusts Carl with bigger and bigger tasks, leading up to him taking a flight to Liberty City to kill Marco Forelli (Original Audio was deleted in the final release of the game for unknown reasons leaving his name unknown) at the Forelli-owned Marco's Bistro . However, Carl was a partner in the rivaling Triad resort, and robbed Caligula's. Salvatore discovers CJ's involvement in heist and then threatens to kill Carl and anyone close to him, although it is known that he never carried out these threats, likely from eventually discovering Carl’s connections to the Triads and wanting to avoid further retaliation from them, additionally he also had to deal with the immediate fallout of the Caligula’s partnership with the Sindaccos and Forellis back in Liberty City. It is then assumed that he left the casino and moved back to the city.
During this time he also met Maria Latore [ 13 ] , who (despite having a foul attitude with him from day one) quickly became his girlfriend and married him in the next six years, almost definitely for his money. Toni Cipriani became a well-ranked Leone member by 1994 , when he killed a rival made man and went into hiding for the next 4 years.
After 1992, he returns to Liberty City. In 1998 he welcomes Toni Cipriani back to the city, after years of hiding, but assigns him to Vincenzo Cilli , a much younger and newer Leone member [ 14 ] . Toni and Vincenzo immediately dislike each other, and after Vincenzo betrays Toni, Toni kills him with Salvatore's apparent approval. In due time, Toni earned his current level of appreciation from Salvatore [ 15 ] by helping him with wrestling Paulie's Revue Bar away from Paulie Sindacco by assisting his discontent manager, JD O'Toole , extorting dock worker union boss Jane Hopper (Salvatore personally working with Toni at this point) [ 16 ] , and after the union troubles were sorted out, attending an LCPD -ambushed meeting with the Colombian Cartel , escaping alive [ 17 ] . Toni ends up killing the Cartel dealers, with the exception of Miguel who survives, and gets away with the drugs.
After the earlier mob war is supposedly finished, Toni follows Sicilian Mafia representative Massimo Torini , who is trying to broker a peace between the three families, but in reality organizing the families as well as street gangs against the Leones [ 18 ] . After this, Mickey Hamfists , under orders from Sal, kills JD O'Toole for his traitorous nature, by tricking him into thinking he'd be a made man [ 19 ] . After JD's death, the Revue Bar is eventually renamed to Sex Club 7 .
Salvatore Leone in 1998 .
Salvatore is slowly forced out of Portland by the Sindacco and Forelli families, as well as the up-and-coming Diablos and Triads . His paranoia briefly causes him to threaten Toni with a gun, before he comes to his senses [ 20 ] . Trusting in Toni again, he explains that the Forellis control mayor Roger C. Hole [ 21 ] who is pinning the entire city's crime on him [ 22 ] , before escaping to a luxury condo Salvatore owns in Newport , Staunton Island .
Salvatore's first move is to murder Mayor Hole [ 23 ] and try to replace him with corrupt politician Donald Love , a business mogul in their pocket who's running for Mayor [ 24 ] . Toni also becomes a made man [ 25 ] before helping Donald Love with his campaign. [ 26 ] [ 27 ] [ 28 ] [ 29 ] [ 30 ]
To try to win the three-way mob war , Salvatore recruits help from a corrupt LCPD officer, Leon McAffrey . Aside from Toni's work with Donald Love, Salvatore also personally digs up information about Franco Forelli and their connections to the Mayoral office, often risking his life to do so [ 31 ] [ 32 ] [ 33 ] . When Paulie Sindacco attempts a truce with the Forelli family, Salvatore very cleverly makes an attempt on Paulie's life while making his rivals go to war with each other again [ 34 ] .
Eventually, Love loses the election to Miles O'Donovan after his links to Toni and the Leone Family are made public [ 35 ] . He blames Toni, goes bankrupt as he'd spent his entire $20 million fortune, and the two don't speak for a short while. To further damage the family's status, Salvatore is arrested and put on trial for all the crime in the city [ 36 ] . Posing as a lawyer, Toni receives orders from Salvatore [ 37 ] , such as making allies with the Southside Hoods [ 38 ] in order to hold back the Forellis, and finally killing Paulie Sindacco as he attempts to flee Liberty City [ 39 ] , and working to subdue their new enemy: the Yakuza . [ 40 ]
Salvatore is eventually found not guilty in court, after Massimo Torini's goons try to kill him [ 41 ] . Afterward, they actually try to negotiate peace when Salvatore insists on having his way [ 42 ] . Massimo Torini personally kidnaps Mayor O'Donovan, bringing him to the lighthouse on Portland Rock [ 43 ] [ 44 ] , where they kill Torini, rescue the mayor and force him to work for the Leones [ 45 ] . Salvatore then makes peace with his uncle and the old country [ 46 ] , before thanking Toni for his hard work and loyalty. [ 47 ]
Salvatore Leone in 2001 .
Since his first trial in 1998 mentioned above, he had been tried in court another four times, winning each case. In April 2001 , the final trial, he was accused of tax evasion (having $450,000 in undeclared income) before his lawyer Maurice Goldberg successfully convinced the court that Salvatore is dyslexic and struggled with taxes. He was only found guilty of importing tomato sauce from Sicily without a license and fined. [ 1 ]
In October 2001, Salvatore is still at war with the Triads and Diablos . Paulie's Revue Bar is renovated and renamed Sex Club 7 , with Luigi Goterelli in charge. Claude , having gotten his start working for Luigi, is first introduced to Salvatore by Toni Cipriani at a meeting at Salvatore's mansion , and he sees great potential in Claude . [ 48 ] [ 49 ] Maria , though still married to Salvatore, takes a serious liking to Claude . He also has Curly Bob , an employee at Sex Club 7, killed by Claude for selling information to the Cartel. [ 50 ]
Claude supposedly earns the ultimate favor with Salvatore after he and his friend 8-Ball destroy the cartel-run SPANK factory aboard a tanker ship. [ 51 ] However, Salvatore becomes paranoid, makes a truce with the Cartel, becomes infuriated after Maria says she's "an item" with Claude, and sets a death trap for him before Maria warns him of the setup and helps him escape Portland . [ 52 ]
Claude, under the orders of Yakuza boss Asuka Kasen , assassinates Salvatore after he leaves Sex Club 7. [ 53 ] After this, members of the Leone Crime Family will become hostile towards Claude and attack him with shotguns and pistols if he returns to Saint Mark's . It is unknown who becomes Don of the Leone Family after Salvatore’s death.
Badfellas poster
Dimitri Rascalov (Russian: Дмитрий Раскалов ) is a character appearing as the main antagonist of Grand Theft Auto IV . He is also mentioned in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony .
He is voiced by Moti Margolin .
Dimitri is a Russian mobster who had immigrated to Liberty City alongside Mikhail Faustin , and was a major and former partner to many people, including Mikhail, Ray Bulgarin , Niko Bellic , Jimmy Pegorino and Giovanni Ancelotti .
Dimitri is known for betraying his friends and partners, showing disloyalty to almost everyone.
Dimitri was born in the Soviet Union c. c. circa 1969 and served in the Soviet Army during the Cold War , and at some point in time, he befriended Mikhail Faustin. They later spent time in a Siberian prison together, where Mikhail protected Dimitri from being raped by the other inmates. They have matching tattoos on the palms of their hands, which means that they are "brothers" for life. They began their criminal activities in Russia, where they were both "selling hash to tourists in Red Square" and Dimitri was convicted of murder more than once.
In the mid-1990s, he "exploited a loophole in the US immigration treaty" to move to Liberty City, as did Mikhail. Mikhail moved with his wife and young daughter . Dimitri was arrested in 1998 and 2000 for extortion and hijacking, respectively. In following years, Mikhail's addictions to alcohol and cocaine caused his anger and paranoia to spiral out of control. Dimitri abused painkillers, but remained calm. While Mikhail had taken to an extreme level of violence, even by organized crime standards, Dimitri favored reasoning with people to maximize profits (although he could still intimidate people if necessary, as seen in Do You Have Protection? ), telling Mikhail time and time again that they had to " play by the rules ."
Dimitri first met Niko Bellic when he and his cousin Roman were kidnapped and interrogated by Andrei for killing Mikhail's employee Vlad Glebov . Dimitri wanted to have Niko and Roman killed, however Mikhail thought it better to have Niko begin working for them , Dimitri agreed. After Mikhail had shot Roman in the stomach Dimitri shows a kind gesture in having Roman's wounds stitched. However, when Niko complains that the task he and Mikhail set for Niko (pulling over every van in South Broker and stealing the one carrying televisions) is impossible he smugly tells Niko that the situation is "a problem for you and your cousin, not me," which foreshadows his betrayal . Later on, Mikhail orders Niko to kill Lenny Petrovic , the son of the city's most powerful Russian mobster Kenny Petrovic , because Mikhail has a vague, unfounded suspicion that Lenny is a snitch. Dimitri tries to reason with Mikhail, saying Lenny Petrovic is dating his cousin and that law enforcement doesn't need a snitch to keep tabs on them due to Mikhail's methods, but to no avail.
Later, Dimitri meets with Niko privately, claiming that Kenny Petrovic would spare them both if Niko were to kill Mikhail . Whether this was true or not is unclear, as Niko received no repercussions from Petrovic following Mikhail's death. When Niko was supposed to collect his payment, Dimitri revealed that he was allied with Ray Bulgarin, who employed Niko as a human trafficker across the Adriatic Sea until he blamed him for a sinking ship. Niko escaped with the aid of his friend Little Jacob , but failed to kill Dimitri and Bulgarin — both would continue to pursue Niko from then on. The same day, his cousin Roman's apartment building and taxi depot were burned down .
Soon after betraying Niko, Dimitri became a major figure in the Russian Mafia and started his own cocaine importation operation. He was arrested but released for attempting to bring cocaine into Liberty City along with a business associate. After they went into hiding in Bohan , he discovered that Roman still frequented a gambling den in Broker . Dimitri was owed an unspecified amount of money from The Lost MC associate Ashley Butler and used this to his advantage, sending two henchmen to her place, and convincing Lost MC President Johnny Klebitz , and a member of the Uptown Riders , Malc , to kidnap Roman to try to lure Niko to his death, but Niko successfully rescued his cousin and Johnny was left in the dark as to why he had to execute the kidnapping.
In the next month or so, Dimitri allied himself with Italian mob boss Giovanni Ancelotti, becoming their cocaine supplier and to profit from his family's rackets. The Pegorino Family learn of this affiliation and decide to steal a shipment of cocaine in Catch the Wave . His first action was to extort deputy mayor Bryce Dawkins to help them control several construction unions, blackmailing him with knowledge of his gay affair with Bernie Crane . Coincidentally, Niko was an old friend of Bernie's and stopped the blackmailers. He also tried to ambush Bernie and Niko by boat while they were having lunch. Niko then allied himself with Gambetti family boss Jon Gravelli and destroyed their shipment of cocaine .
At the end of the game, Dimitri offered to sell the heroin from Jimmy Pegorino to a third party; Pegorino had Niko working for him at the time. Pegorino was made aware of their feud but still ordered Niko to participate in the deal. The player is then given the choice of whether Niko will participate in the deal and be paid, or betray Pegorino and kill Dimitri.
Dimitri was to collect heroin and sell it to a third party, who would in turn pay Niko and Phil Bell. Dimitri betrays Niko as expected and leaves him and Phil trapped in the compound, forcing them to fight their way to the money and escape the compound. The very next day Niko's cousin Roman was getting married, and Dimitri sent a hitman to kill Niko. He accidentally killed Roman in a struggle with Niko, after which Niko swore revenge on Dimitri. After Niko and Little Jacob find Dimitri and Pegorino at an abandoned casino in Alderney, where they witness Dimitri execute Pegorino in an attempt to claim the profits for himself. Niko chases Dimitri throughout the city before killing him on Happiness Island.
When first introduced, Dimitri was shown to be a very calm and collected individual, but nonetheless slightly aggressive, seen as Dimitri slapped Niko Bellic in order to "wake him up", but expressed horror and shock upon witnessing Mikhail Faustin murdering their fellow employee, Andrei.
In contrast to Faustin, Dimitri acts as the brains of their organization, and even Faustin himself admits this during " Do You Have Protection? ", as Faustin states " That's the way it works, I am angry, you are calm. I scare, you reason. It works ". Dimitri also seems to possess some sort of emotional detachment towards others, and according to Faustin, it's due to Dimitri's overuse of painkillers .
Despite having a long history with Faustin, Dimitri showed little to no hesitation about having him killed, mostly to protect himself from Kenny Petrovic's wrath after Faustin ordered Niko to have his son murdered. Afterwards, Dimitri showed himself to be a highly untrustworthy individual, seen as he betrayed Niko and ambushed him alongside Ray Bulgarin in order to form a partnership with the latter, although Dimitri never showed signs of betraying Bulgarin, as Bulgarin was a heavily powerful and influential mobster, and Dimitri was possibly afraid of the consequences should he betray him, but wasn't above betraying lesser influential people, such as Jimmy Pegorino ( Deal Ending ).
Aside from his treacherous nature, Dimitri also shows signs of hypocrisy, telling Niko that he couldn't accuse him of disloyalty as "he [Niko] killed Mikhail and knew as much about loyalty as he [Dimitri] did", despite Dimitri himself planning the assassination.
If Niko decides to exact revenge on Dimitri by storming in the Platypus , Dimitri shows little to no fear, as Dimitri was being protected by countless guards and thugs, but after finding himself alone with Niko, pleads for forgiveness and attempts to talk his way into a partnership, effectively proving himself as a coward in contrast to Mikhail who instead reprimands Niko for making him what he was and warning of Dimitri's betrayal, as Dimitri constantly taunted Niko throughout the story with phone calls, as Dimitri believed that he was untouchable when it came to Niko.
Unlike Faustin, Dimitri's take on leading his organization seemed incredibly more efficient and profitable than Faustin's, as during Faustin's leadership, their organization only operated on a small part around Hove Beach and they only possessed one business interest, the Perestroika , but after Dimitri's takeover, the organization's influence and power grew drastically, seen as they began operating around Algonquin and Alderney City , gained numerous new business interests and expanded their horizons, and even influential mobsters like Jon Gravelli and other politicians, such as Bobby Jefferson and the Mayor of Liberty City, have taken notice of Dimitri's actions.
- Exploited a loophole in the immigration treaty to gain US residency in the mid 90s. - Believed to be the right hand man of Mikhail Faustin, the Russian national in control of organized crime in the Hove Beach area.
Roman Bellic (Serbian: Роман Белић , Latinica: Roman Belić ) is the deuteragonist and a friend in Grand Theft Auto IV and a minor character in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony . Roman is the older cousin of GTA IV 's protagonist , Niko Bellic .
He is voiced by Jason Zumwalt .
Roman was born in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and moved to Liberty City in 1998 , aged twenty-one. He later claims to be living the " American Dream" and that he has two women, four hot tubs and fifteen sports cars. This encourages Niko to join him in America, where Niko discovers that Roman lied about living in paradise; his cousin is actually the owner of a small, gritty taxi firm , a small, roach infested apartment in Broker , and has large gambling debts, owed to the Albanians and Vladimir Glebov . Roman later marries Mallorie Bardas . He is the nephew of Milica Bellic .
Roman Bellic was born in the area of Yugoslavia which is now modern-day Serbia, in Eastern Europe. He and Niko grew up together, and Niko claims that Roman's mother raised both of them. Before Roman eventually left Yugoslavia, he and Niko once went to a bar only to find it in a demolished state with only one bottle of Vodka surviving; they sat down and drank the Vodka. After the war, she used all of the money she had saved to send Roman to the United States of America . She also wanted to send Niko to the United States, but he stayed behind to fight in the Yugoslav War. After arriving in Liberty City , Roman eventually saved up enough money , and bought two taxis , the cab depot , and eventually an apartment . It is implied that upon arriving in Liberty City, he began to put on weight, as Bernie Crane describes Roman as "putting on a few vanity pounds", proving that Roman must have gained weight after leaving Yugoslavia. When Niko complained about Roman's "shitty" apartment, Roman told him he slept under at his desk at his taxi depot for over a year before he was finally able to get the apartment.
In a conversation with Kate McReary , Niko says that he found Roman's mother raped and murdered, although Niko told Roman that she died in a house fire. In conversations between Niko and Roman and other characters, it is revealed that both Niko and Roman's fathers were alcoholic, wife-beating bullies.
When Niko arrives in Liberty City, he soon finds out that Roman is heavily in debt with various powerful underworld figures in the city, including the Russian and Albanian Mafias, mostly due to his gambling addiction. Roman employs his girlfriend Mallorie at his taxi depot; although he is unaware that she is having an affair with Vlad Glebov. Niko kills Dardan Petrela , Kalem and Bledar Morina , three Albanians, when they attempt to collect their money.
When Roman finds out about Mallorie's affair with Vlad, he is upset, and Niko confronts and kills Vlad for him. Vlad's death causes Roman to become paranoid because he fears retaliation from Vlad's boss, Mikhail Faustin . His worst fears proved to be correct. He and Niko are later kidnapped on orders from Faustin . Faustin shoots Roman in the stomach (because his screaming would alert Ilyena , his wife, upstairs, who was watching television at the time), but he survives. This leads to Niko doing a couple of jobs for Faustin such as killing a patched member of The Lost MC – Jason Michaels .
After Niko kills Faustin for Dimitri Rascalov , Rascalov and Ray Bulgarin betray Niko, burning down his apartment in Hove Beach and Roman's taxi depot. The cousins move into Mallorie's cousin's apartment in Bohan , where he also opens another taxi depot with the insurance money he received from the fire.
Roman later has a "cold streak" in his poker games, leading the Russians to hire Johnny Klebitz with the help of Malc to kidnap him , taking him to a warehouse in the Industrial area of Bohan . The Russians hope that they can kill Niko when he tries to rescue Roman. But, Niko would later rescue him .
After Niko rescues Roman, he continues gambling. He goes on a hot streak, wins a lot of money, upgrades his taxis from Esperantos to Cavalcades and buys a luxury penthouse in Algonquin , telling Niko they are finally going to live the dream.
Towards the end of the storyline in GTA IV , Niko has to decide if he will kill Dimitri in revenge for his betrayal or work with him again in a heroin deal for Jimmy Pegorino . Roman urges Niko to forget revenge and work with Dimitri , considering the large amount of money he could receive for his work. He tells Niko he would be able to afford a great honeymoon with Mallorie and that maybe he and Niko could take a private jet to Vice City .
If Niko decides to get revenge on Dimitri , Jimmy Pegorino will be furious about his business being ruined. During Roman's and Mallorie's wedding, Pegorino attempts to kill Niko in a drive-by shooting, but kills Kate McReary , Niko's love interest, by accident.
If Niko decides to strike a deal , Dimitri betrays Niko again during the mission and was forced to steal the money afterwards, he sends an assassin to kill Niko at Roman's and Mallorie's wedding . Niko fights and kills the assassin, but in the struggle, Roman is accidentally shot in the chest and killed.
In Grand Theft Auto V , after the player chooses either Ending C (canon finale) or Ending A , one potential scenario in Michael De Santa 's house sees his family gathered around the dining room table. Jimmy , Michael's son, is writing his résumé on a laptop. [ 3 ] However, the screen displays a Lifeinvader profile page as an Easter egg.
By using a camera to zoom in, the page is revealed to be that of Niko Bellic, complete with an image of the character. He now lives in Broker, still working as a taxi driver for Bellic Cab Service, and is still in contact with Mallorie Bardas, Little Jacob , and Brucie Kibbutz , who all liked his latest status. There is also a Happy Birthday note for Roman which was dated as being posted 40 minutes prior. As Rockstar Games have officially stated that there are no "true paths" for the Grand Theft Auto IV 's storyline, and it's all determinant to the player, and this official stance was issued after the release of GTA V , Niko Bellic's LifeInvader profile in GTA V (including Roman as a friend) is considered an Easter egg . [ 4 ]
Roman mainly appears to be concerned more about making money , possibly being more desperate to prosper than any of the other characters, which has led him to build a bad reputation in the city for his gambling addiction, of which he is constantly reminded by Niko. Despite his love of money and his problems, he cares a lot about his friends and family, and is sometimes annoyed at Niko's affiliation with organized crime. Out of all the characters, Roman appears to be the least interested in organized crime, as he only wishes to earn money and live the "American Dream."
Roman understands that Niko is unable to find regular work, and does not trouble him about his life as a criminal, but instead tells him to be careful, as some of the crimes Niko commits ( racketeering , armed robbery , car thefts , assassinations , delivering drugs , etc.), could get Niko an extremely long jail sentence.
Roman has three outfits:
These are Roman's favorite places during a friend activity with him:
After completion of Bull in a China Shop , getting his likeness percentage above 75% will unlock his special ability to service taxi rides for Niko for free, also unlocking the achievement, Driving Mr. Bellic .
- Heavily in debt. - Owns a livery cab service believed to be used by criminals for illegal purposes.
Deal Ending
Revenge Ending
After completing certain GTA IV missions, Niko can call Roman; this keeps Niko in touch with his cousin, while also showing Niko's opinion regarding the various situations he gets in, revealing more detail about his character.
Roman's Lifeinvader photo.
As this official stance was issued after the release of GTA V , Niko Bellic's LifeInvader profile in GTA V (including Roman as a friend) is considered an Easter egg .
Frank Tenpenny is the primary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by actor Samuel L. Jackson .
An officer of the Los Santos Police Department (LSPD), Tenpenny – along with Jimmy Hernandez and Eddie Pulaski – make up the individual C.R.A.S.H. (Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums) unit.
Although both Tenpenny and the C.R.A.S.H. unit claim and appear to be ordinary police officers, Tenpenny and the others that make up the unit are extremely corrupt individuals who use their knowledge of the gangs they are hired to stop to coerce them into surrendering some of their profits and supplies to them, and regularly commit acts of police brutality, making them almost like a gang themselves but with the power of law enforcement behind them.
Prior to the game's storyline, Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski exit from a meeting in Ganton with an unnamed individual referred to as "that fat fuck" and "that over-sized asshole" (likely Big Smoke ). Tenpenny ordered the individual to better do what he was told, further discussing that Ralph Pendelbury was becoming a problem. Tenpenny later threatened the same individual over the phone and rode with Pulaski to pick up Jimmy Hernandez before the latter joined C.R.A.S.H. Tenpenny then orders Hernandez to silence Ralph Pendelbury, an LSPD officer who uncovered and attempted to expose Tenpenny and Pulaski's corruption to Internal Affairs . Just prior to Pendelbury's murder, Tenpenny and Pulaski brief their newest recruit, Hernandez, in a scene reminiscent of the film Training Day . They both order Hernandez to pull the trigger on Pendelbury, thereby initiating Hernandez into their distorted view of things.
Tenpenny has known protagonist Carl Johnson at least since Brian Johnson 's death in 1987 , and CJ is well aware of Tenpenny and calls him by name from the very beginning of the game. Tenpenny likes to "step on" CJ on a regular basis to remind him of who's in charge. Tenpenny is obviously seen to be a powerful influence on the criminals of Los Santos , even warning CJ that "we can shit on you from such a height, you'll think God himself has crapped on you." He sees CJ as another tool in his dirty dealings. He and Pulaski extort several Grove Street Families members, including Big Smoke and Ryder , but Tenpenny appears to take pleasure in exercising control over CJ specifically. He officially threatens CJ to do his work or he'll frame him for Officer Pendelbury's murder, whom Tenpenny had Hernandez kill merely ten minutes before Carl's return to Los Santos.
While Tenpenny claims he is pitting the gangs against each other to wipe them all out, he is actually allied with the Ballas , who (unlike the GSF) have no reservations against dealing crack cocaine. C.R.A.S.H. lets the Ballas flood the city with drugs, which turns many GSF members into addicts, effectively crushing their gang. Tenpenny also convinces Smoke to betray his gang in return for heading up the drug operation; in turn, Smoke convinces Ryder to defect also. Tenpenny and Pulaski personally oversee the Ballas murder of Carl and Sweet Johnson 's mother Beverly (this is revealed during The Green Sabre ). Tenpenny anticipates that her death will bring CJ back to Los Santos, and accosts him less than a block from his home in Ganton and forces the taxi which CJ was passenger in, off with his suitcase and which is probably the main reason why CJ has only one pair of clothes at the start of the game. The C.R.A.S.H. team also plants evidence on him linking him to Pendelbury's death (allowing Tenpenny to exploit CJ into doing whatever he sees fit). He warns CJ not to leave town and dumps him out of the patrol car in Ballas territory.
Later, Tenpenny and Pulaski kidnap CJ following a large gang assault beneath the Mulholland Intersection (which ended with Sweet being shot and incarcerated in a prison hospital upstate, and Carl being kidnapped. Clearly, Tenpenny personally ensured that CJ would escape the law to continue using him). They drive CJ miles away to rural Whetstone and dump him in the woods with orders to kill an FBI witness . He also tells CJ, who now knows of Big Smoke's involvement with C.R.A.S.H., not to kill Big Smoke, or the imprisoned Sweet will be put on a Ballas cell block. Tenpenny and Pulaski surface every so often to lean on CJ and usually order him to plant evidence on or kill someone who threatens to expose the true colours of C.R.A.S.H.
With Big Smoke ruling Los Santos as its crack kingpin under C.R.A.S.H.'s control, Tenpenny's reach is expanding. Despite this, the FBI is becoming interested in the wave of drugs crippling the city. CJ finally outlives his usefulness to Tenpenny and Pulaski, who are becoming edgy and less tolerant of loose ends by the time CJ reaches Las Venturas . There they have him acquire an FBI dossier . After this he drives CJ out to the desert, where Tenpenny attacks Hernandez for cooperating with Internal Affairs and orders Carl to dig his own grave. He then leaves CJ and Hernandez for Pulaski to watch so he can "get drunk and get laid", so he is not present to see CJ murder Pulaski .
Upon taking back Madd Dogg's mansion , CJ learns that Tenpenny has been charged with racketeering, corruption, possession and use of narcotics and numerous sexual assaults. However, as all the prosecution's witnesses have either been killed by CJ or otherwise gone missing, Tenpenny is acquitted, which ignites a riot in Los Santos reminiscent of the 1992 Los Angeles riots .
Tenpenny seeks to escape Los Santos and the ongoing riot by plane (supposedly fleeing San Andreas ) with a suitcase full of drug money. Tenpenny emerges just as CJ has killed Big Smoke and tells him he has new recruits in the force who are ready for him to "open their eyes" to his way of thinking. Tenpenny starts a fire in Big Smoke's Crack Palace downstairs, hoping to kill CJ in the blast, then flees in a fire engine . Carl's brother, Sweet, however, hangs on to the fire engine's ladder; CJ catches him in his open-roofed car and continues the chase.
During the final cutscene of the "End of the Line" mission, Tenpenny's fire engine runs off an overpass, where it lands right in the heart of Grove Street . A badly injured Tenpenny crawls out calling for backup. Upon realising nobody is coming, he curses the police force, claiming that with "fifty of me", Los Santos would be saved, before dying from either his injuries or an implied heart attack. CJ and the rest of his crew examine the body to make sure he's finished, but Sweet makes sure no one touches him so officials will blame a traffic accident for his death.
Before they walk away from the corpse, The Truth tells CJ that he "beat the system" after he personally had been trying for 30 years. CJ then leans over, points his fingers at Tenpenny's lifeless body and smugly says, "See you around, officer ." Tenpenny's corpse is reported on WCTR News to have been mutilated and stripped by the homeless, before officials found it once the riots had ended.
Frank Tenpenny is a corrupt police officer and is depicted as a very violent, sadistic, callous, manipulative, and impulsive man. Tenpenny is also quite arrogant and ruthless and can be easily angered if things do not go his way. Tenpenny is a sociopath and appears to have a few qualms about abusing people verbally or physically and seems to be fond of practicing brutality on others.
Tenpenny's notable trait is his egocentric superiority complex, in which he expresses enjoyment in manipulating others and being "in charge" of those around him. Such as the case in which he insisted his right-hand man Eddie Pulaski call him by his title (Officer Tenpenny) instead of his first name. Tenpenny seems to, in particular, enjoy controlling Carl, as he often uses Carl as his "dog" to do dirty jobs for him and to protect himself from various attempts by several people to expose his own crimes, all while blackmailing Carl and threatening him with harsh retribution that "(he) will think God himself has crapped on (him)." His treatment of Carl as his favorite "dog" has reached the point that he only wanted to kill him long after he has no use for Carl, as Pulaski said that Tenpenny will find an excuse to keep Carl alive despite Pulaski's wish to kill him sooner.
While Tenpenny claims that he supported every gang in the town to "took the trash out" by having them kill each other, he actually sided with the drug-dealing Vagos and Ballas to weaken both Aztecas and GSF (who oppose the drug business) in order to gain more power and respect from them instead of preventing them from committing more crimes and gain the drug money for his own use.
During his final confrontation with Carl, Tenpenny declares that he will never be alone even after Pulaski and Smoke's death, as he can simply recruit more rookies to replace them by "opening their eyes" with "a little truth" about his brutal practice. Despite his heinous actions, Tenpenny believes what he has done is justified. In this last breath, Tenpenny curses everyone for never understanding what he did, declaring that "fifty of [him]" would make Los Santos a better place, and that he will "do it all again", showing no remorse for his crimes.
Tenpenny appears to be based on a real corrupt LAPD Officer, Rafael Perez , who was the center of attention in the Rampart scandal . He also looks similar to David Mack , another ringleader in the scandal.
Amanda De Santa , formerly Amanda Townley , is a main character and the secondary tritagonist to Michael De Santa in Grand Theft Auto V , and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the A Safehouse in the Hills update.
She is portrayed by Vicki van Tassel .
In the early 1990s, Amanda was working as a stripper alongside her sisters in a strip club her mother owned. [ 2 ] At one point, while working, she met a bank robber named Michael Townley and his partner-in-crime, Trevor Philips . Though initially taking a liking to a third accomplice they were with, she ultimately began dating Michael, who bought breast implants for her and made money using her as a stripper. Eventually, they got married and had two children together, Jimmy and Tracey , with whom they lived in a trailer in the Midwest.
Amanda attending Michael's "funeral".
As Michael continued his life of crime, he began fearing for his family's safety. In 2004 , Michael made a covert deal with corrupt FIB agent Dave Norton to sell out his crew during a robbery at a cash storage facility in Ludendorff , fake his death, and walk out a free man, while Norton got the publicity for taking down the famous bank robber, Michael Townley. Michael told Amanda his plan, who was skeptical, but he assured her that it was all to protect her. Amanda's misgivings about the plan prove true when an accomplice, Brad Snider , ends up shot and the one who they really wanted dead due to his psychotic nature, Trevor, escapes. Despite this, Michael and his family eventually assume Trevor to have died. Amanda attends Michael's "funeral", before moving to Los Santos with her family.
While living their new life, Amanda's relationship with Michael and her kids becomes sour, as she doesn't approve of Tracey and Jimmy's lifestyles, while constantly getting into arguments with Michael, barely tolerating him. Michael spent his time drinking, moping, and losing his temper at her, forcing her to raise their kids without input from him, while also spending his money freely on expensive clothing, jewelry, and plastic surgery. She stayed faithful to Michael until she caught him having sex with a stripper, leading to her cheating on Michael with many different men. Their marriage eventually became a pseudo-open relationship, with unwritten rules that the other wouldn't find out about anyone they slept with, it wouldn't be on the other's dime, and it wouldn't be done in the house. [ 3 ]
At some point in the summer of 2012 , Amanda rented out their house to porn producers, without her husband's knowledge.
While Franklin Clinton breaks into Michael's House to repossess Jimmy's car, he briefly sees Amanda in the kitchen with her tennis coach, Kyle Chavis, as he seductively "demonstrates" to Amanda how to properly use a tennis racket.
Afterwards, while Michael tries to relax by the pool , he put on earbuds playing music to drown out the sound of Tracey arguing with Amanda about how her then boyfriend, Gary Scales , can't sleepover that night because Amanda thinks that he's a "bum", and accuses him of being homeless. Tracey angrily denies this, screaming that he just doesn't have anywhere else to stay.
Amanda holding back Michael from Kyle .
When Michael catches Amanda and Kyle having sex in his own bed , Kyle, in panic, jumps out the window to escape. Michael follows after him, even though Amanda tries to stop him. With the help of Franklin, who Michael had previously befriended, the pair chase after the tennis coach.
Michael can call Amanda after this event, who asks him if Kyle is dead, to which Michael replies “no, but I might be soon”, referring to the Mexican Cartel being after him, intending to kill him unless he pays the money required to repair the house he pulled down. When Amanda asks him what he means, Michael tells her to forget about it. Michael can call Amanda again, and they continue the conversation about Kyle Chavis, with Amanda worried where he is, and why he isn’t answering his cell phone. Michael says that he must have skipped town, to which Amanda responds by threatening to run him out of town next time. Michael replies by jokingly saying if he brings a skank to the house and gets Amanda to pay, then it will gladly happen, referencing exactly what Amanda did to him.
Another phone call between Michael and Amanda happens with Amanda asking about Franklin Clinton, as she feels uncomfortable with her husband hanging around him, as her son told her that he’s a gangster that broke into their house. Michael replies by saying that Franklin is a good kid and that he’s helping him out. Amanda expresses her disapproval, but with Michael not caring. These are initially her first impressions of Franklin, but later on, she warms up to him as she calls Franklin later and even tells Michael during a phone call in Ending B that she wants to invite Franklin over for dinner one night.
When Michael finds a brick of weed belonging to Jimmy in the fridge, he and Amanda argue until her yoga instructor, Fabien LaRouche shows up, further angering Michael. When Jimmy walks into the kitchen looking for his weed, he insults Michael for taking it, causing Michael to confront him, which Amanda tries to defuse. Suddenly, Trevor Philips appears, surprising everyone. After an awkward reunion with Michael, he greets Amanda before learning, along with Michael, that Tracey was auditioning for the TV show Fame or Shame . Fearing that she was going to embarrass herself, Michael and Trevor rush off to stop her .
Amanda later calls Michael after she is caught shoplifting from a fancy clothing store . If Michael decides to help her, he steals the police car , with a handcuffed Amanda held in the back seat and flees from the police . As he takes Amanda home, Michael chastises her habit of stealing things, to which Amanda points out that Michael is just as bad, with his past criminal life. If Michael decides not to help her, she takes money from Michael's bank account to pay a lawyer.
Amanda, Michael, and Fabien doing yoga.
Later, as Michael and Amanda are arguing about Michael smoking in the house and Trevor's return, Fabien arrives once again and invites both of them to a yoga session to relax . Michael agrees to join them, much to Amanda's frustration. The session goes well until Fabien attempts to straddle Amanda in a yoga position. Michael gets angry and lunges at Fabien, who dodges him, causing Michael to fall into his swimming pool. Having reached her breaking point with her husband's behavior, Amanda denounces Michael and angrily declares that she will leave him and never return. She leaves a note for Michael saying that she, Jimmy and Tracey have decided to move in with Fabien due to Michael's recent misconduct, and threatens legal action against him, leaving her husband distraught.
While Amanda leaves, she tries to make Michael jealous by leaving posts on his Lifeinvader page saying that Fabien satisfies her physically, emotionally and spiritually. However, after some time, she begins to realize that Fabien is even more vain and self-obsessed than Michael ever was, spending more time focusing on yoga and making numerous colon-related insults at her, Jimmy and Tracey. She calls Franklin, asking if Michael is still alive and leaves a message on his Lifeinvader page, telling him to let her know that he is safe.
Amanda and Michael during a therapy session.
After a few weeks, Jimmy finally visits the house to see Michael . He claims that Amanda is not happy with Fabien any longer, and that she is at a Bean Machine café with him. The pair then leave and show up at the café. When Michael and Jimmy arrive, Fabien insults both of them, to which Amanda responds by asking Michael to hit him, which he does with a nearby laptop. Satisfied, Amanda tells Michael to take himself, along with Jimmy and Tracey to Dr. Friedlander's therapy office, after which she leaves with Fabien, presumably taking him home. During the therapy session, the couple vent and argue at each other, but by the end they are both satisfied with being able to release years of pent-up anger. They both promise to try and make each other happy and no longer cheat on each other, and Amanda and the children move back in.
Soon after, she and Tracey are held hostage by Merryweather Security under orders of Devin Weston , whom Michael inadvertently angered when his attempt to stop him from canning a movie he was working on resulted in his lawyer being killed when she ran into an active jet engine trying to escape Michael. Michael kills all the Merryweather operatives, except one, who manages to throw him on the ground. Before he could kill the De Santas, however, Jimmy saves his family by knocking out the Merryweather operative, though he teabags Michael instead, accidentally. Afterwards, Amanda, Jimmy and Tracey move out of the property for their own safety.
Amanda will no longer appear in the game after the final mission but not before sending an e-mail to Franklin, saying that she knows that he has something to do with Michael's death, and warns him to never come close to her family again, or else she will kill him herself. Franklin responds by denying he killed Michael. Lester Crest , Michael's associate, transfers the money Michael made from the Union Depository Heist to Amanda.
Amanda puts their Rockford Hills mansion up for sale, suggesting she and her children have relocated for their safety.
By 2025 , Amanda, having dyed her hair blonde, and Michael are still happily married and have become "empty nesters with too much time on their hands", as Tracey is presumably living on her own while Jimmy is about to move out himself. Once the GTA Online Protagonist purchases a Prix Luxury mansion in the northern Los Santos County area, Amanda and Michael pay them a visit to welcome them to the neighborhood. During a house tour, Amanda is impressed by some of the protagonist's decorations and facilities and suggests to Michael that they renovate their own home soon.
The house tour is interrupted by Mr. Faber , who allowed himself into the protagonist's mansion and was "testing the facilities" by taking a shower in their bathroom. After greeting Amanda, Michael, and the player and briefly discussing potential business opportunities with the latter two, Faber takes his leave. Amanda and Michael then complete the tour and depart as well, leaving the protagonist to enjoy their new home.
Later, at the end of the mission Home Sweet Home , Amanda calls Michael after he helped the protagonist defend their mansion from a home invasion. Choosing to keep his involvement secret, likely because Amanda would disapprove of him returning to his old ways — even if it was for self-defense — Michael tells her that he was just taking care of an " HOA violation" and that he will be home in ten minutes.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
James "Jimmy" De Santa , formerly James Townley , is a main character appearing as a tritagonist to Michael De Santa in Grand Theft Auto V , and as a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto Online , introduced in The Diamond Casino Heist update.
He is portrayed by Danny Tamberelli .
Jimmy is the son of Michael and Amanda De Santa , and the younger brother of Tracey . Born in 1993 , he and his family lived in a trailer park in the Midwest while his father, Michael, ran a career in bank robbing. At some point, Michael's partners-in-crime, Trevor Philips and Brad Snider met Jimmy and his family.
In 2004 , Michael, fearing for his family's safety, faked his own death during a failed heist in Ludendorff , North Yankton , and moved his family to Los Santos , San Andreas . During this time, his relationship with his family became strained, due to their very different lifestyle choices and personalities, in Jimmy's case, his videogame and drug habits, along with his disrespectful attitude.
Jimmy used to play baseball as a child, as seen in a photograph at the De Santa Residence .
In 2013 , Jimmy purchases a yellow BeeJay XL SUV from Simeon Yetarian 's dealership , unaware that he's falling victim to a credit fraud scheme. Later, as he plays Righteous Slaughter 7 and argues with Tracey, Franklin Clinton breaks into the De Santa Residence to reposess the car.
Later, Jimmy attempts to sell Michael's yacht for drug money, but the " buyers " decide to steal it, instead. Jimmy, hiding in the head of the boat, frantically calls Michael to tell him what happened, who, in Amanda's Sentinel and with the recently befriended Franklin, quickly catches up to the yacht as it's being transported down the freeway . Franklin jumps aboard and manages to rescue Jimmy, but they lose the yacht. Michael asks Franklin to get Amanda's car repaired and take Jimmy home, while he leaves to take time to himself. While he initially protests, Jimmy accompanies Franklin and tries to relate to him, albeit unsuccessfully.
Michael yelling at Jimmy after the former smashes the latter's TV.
Later on, as Jimmy is playing videogames, he shouts insults through his headset so much that his dad cannot hear the dialogue of the film he is trying to watch in the living room, downstairs. Michael angrily marches upstairs and gets into an argument with Jimmy, which ends when Michael smashes Jimmy's television with a chair. After calming down, Michael attempts to bond with Jimmy by going on a bike ride together . Knowing that Tracey was partying with porn producers on a boat that day, Jimmy suggests that they go biking down Vespucci Beach , where he planned to lead Michael to the boat Tracey was on, hoping the idea of Tracey hanging out with porn producers would make his father angry. They drive to the beach and race to the end of Del Perro Pier , where Jimmy points out the boat Tracey is on, and tells Michael about what she was doing. As Jimmy expected, Michael gets angry and dives into the ocean , swimming to the boat to get his daughter. Afterwards, Michael and Tracey meet up with Jimmy on the beach. Tracey, angry at Jimmy for telling their father where she was, storms off, while Jimmy follows.
Eventually, Michael finds a block of Weed belonging to Jimmy in the fridge. As he walks into the kitchen to get it, Michael taunts him with it, causing Jimmy to insult Michael, who responds by angrily confronting him. The situation only defuses with appearance of Trevor, Michael's old partner-in-crime, to everyone's surprise. After an awkward reunion, in which Trevor comments on how Jimmy used to be thinner, he and Michael inquire to him about Tracey's location, to which he tells them that she is auditioning for the TV talent show Fame or Shame as a dancer. Knowing that Tracey will likely embarrass herself on TV, Michael and Trevor rush off to the Maze Bank Arena , where the auditions are being held.
Jimmy pushing Michael out of the car.
After Michael nearly gets into a fight with Amanda's Yoga instructor, Fabien LaRouche , Amanda storms out and leaves. He goes upstairs and asks Jimmy to hang out with him, which Jimmy protests, but concedes to. Jimmy decides to go meet his friend, Ahron Ward at Burger Shot to pick up drugs from him. While on the way there, Michael tries to talk to Jimmy and relate to him, but Jimmy simply blows him off. During the drive home after picking up the drugs, Jimmy tricks Michael into taking a sip of a drink he picked up, the latter unaware that it was spiked with an anesthetic. Michael soon starts feeling dizzy and Jimmy throws him out onto the street before driving away.
Afterwards, Jimmy takes Michael's car, along with some of his money, and moves out. Amanda reveals to Michael in a letter that Jimmy had twisted the story and told her Michael had willing taken drugs while driving him, further convincing her to leave him. Jimmy later texts Michael asking if he can give him another $1,000. Michael simply ignores his request.
Jimmy later returns Michael's car to his house, heavily modified. He explains in a text that, despite his "improvements" (a set of rims with large dollar signs on them, a "La Cucaracha" tune horn, a small spoiler, and a few low/mid-level performance upgrades), it is still an uncool "old man car", and he can't allow himself to be seen in one, also implying in a side comment that the Hispanics in his new neighborhood were starting to give him angry looks over his choice of car horn.
Later, Michael passes out drinking whisky and is woken by Jimmy, who has returned alone and makes a clumsy attempt at reconciliation. Michael reacts apathetically, though does inquire about Amanda. Jimmy informs his father that Amanda remains angry at Michael, though is also bored, having realized that a relationship with Fabien wasn't the ideal way to get back at Michael that she thought it would be, and is waiting for Michael to turn up and prove that he is still committed to his family. Jimmy then accompanies Michael to pick up Amanda and Tracey, who join Jimmy and Michael in a session with Dr. Friedlander . Despite the clear tensions which remain, Michael's family agrees to move back in.
Devin, Jimmy and Michael at the premiere.
Later, Jimmy accompanies his father to the premiere of his film production debut, Meltdown . However, when they arrive there, they notice that Amanda and Tracey are nowhere to be found. Devin Weston , who is angry at Michael when his attempts to stop him from canning the movie resulted in the accidental death of his lawyer , then shows up and hints that they both are in trouble. Michael and Jimmy return to the house to find a private security group, Merryweather are holding Amanda and Tracey hostage. Michael kills most of the mercenaries, but one of them catches Michael off guard and holds him at gunpoint. Jimmy then shuts off the power to the house, and, while wearing a soldier uniform and night-vision goggles, knocks out the Merryweather thug, but teabags Michael by mistake. After this, Jimmy, Amanda, and Tracey leave the mansion for their own safety.
Later, Jimmy gets kidnapped by a comedy writer for trolling and harassing him online. He phones Michael and secretly reveals his location, giving Michael the option to come rescue him. If he chooses to do so, Michael will catch up to the kidnapper's car and ram it a few times, causing the kidnapper and his associates to get out and run away. Afterwards, Michael drops Jimmy off at The Richman Hotel . If Michael does not agree to help, the kidnapper will ransom Jimmy, forcing Michael to pay $ 9,500.
Jimmy does not call any of the protagonists.
Jimmy calls Michael saying that he just heard about Trevor's death, to which Michael will reply saying that Trevor was a dangerous man and that his death was the best for them. Jimmy will be shocked to hear this and realizes that his father was involved in Trevor's assassination.
Jimmy will also call Franklin to ask about Trevor's death. Franklin will say that Trevor was a crazy man and that it is best if Jimmy just moves on with his life.
After this, both Michael and Franklin can still hang out with Jimmy.
Jimmy calls Franklin two times. In the first call, he tells Franklin that his dad has disappeared and asks if he knows his whereabouts, to which Franklin replies that he doesn't. In the second call, he reveals that he knows Michael is dead and emotionally asks what Franklin knows about it. Franklin gets nervous and starts to stammer on his answer, which Jimmy picks up on, and it doesn't take long for him to deduce that Franklin was involved with Michael's death. He insults Franklin and hangs up the phone.
Jimmy will also call Trevor, letting him know about Michael's death. Trevor will not know what to say to comfort Jimmy, but tells him that he sends his best to Amanda. After this, both Trevor and Franklin are unable to hang out with Jimmy.
Jimmy and his family then move out of the De Santa residence, which is put up for sale.
Jimmy working in the GTA Online Protagonist 's arcade.
Six years after the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Jimmy makes his debut in Grand Theft Auto Online as a supporting character in The Diamond Casino Heist update. He appears during the first cutscene after the player purchases an arcade , as a new employee working for the "arcade" portion of the business under Wendy 's supervision. Having been offered a job by 'Uncle Les' Crest ahead of any potential applicants, Jimmy was interested because he was told the business involved 'games', and is thus somewhat dismayed to discover he will be working in a retro arcade rather than being involved in the e-sports scene as he had hoped. He nevertheless accepts, albeit reluctantly, and is reminded by Lester that "everyone has to start somewhere".
Jimmy is initially relegated to sweeping the floors and helping clean up the disused building, before later setting up the arcade machines bought by the player. Although Lester is skeptical of how long Jimmy will last, claiming he won't last a week, he continues to be employed after the arcade officially opens for business and can be found within.
In early 2024 , Jimmy makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in The Cluckin' Bell Farm Raid as part of the continuation of The Chop Shop update. He is briefly seen from afar, purchasing drugs from Ahron Ward at the Burger Shot in Vespucci . His apparel is the same as his previous appearance during The Diamond Casino Heist. Jimmy plays no role in the storyline whatsoever.
The drug deal happening in plain sight from the Vespucci Police Station is used as an example of the corrupt LSPD officers turning a blind eye to crime.
In late 2025 , it is revealed by Michael and Amanda that Jimmy is "finally moving out", indicating that Jimmy has made enough money from his arcade job to afford his own abode.
Dan Houser has described Jimmy as a 20-year-old, whiny pot smoker, who is prominently very lazy and addicted to video games. During Michael's character trailer, Jimmy can be seen playing on a video game console in his bedroom. When he plays video games, he shouts insults at other players through his headset about their mothers, their sexuality, and how bad they are at the game.
Jimmy shows much cowardice in the storyline. He is visibly resentful and afraid of his father, as when he tries to stand up to him, he backs down as soon as Michael comes back at him with aggression. He blames his dad for all of his own failings and is quick to shift the blame for any of his own poorly thought actions onto his father's loose morals and shady past. Being aware of Michael's checkered past, it seems Jimmy does not trust his father to be anything but angry or depressed. This culminates in an incident where he drugs Michael, then steals his car and takes some of his money to get his own place, a move which backfires horribly for Jimmy.
Later in the storyline, Jimmy starts to mature and show trust and love for his father and his family. He saves them after a Merryweather goon knocks Michael down and prepares to shoot him, by hitting the goon on the head with a bong. Also, if Franklin chooses to kill Michael, Jimmy will mourn his father's death. He stops insulting other players and admits to his dad that calling people "gay" isn't cool anymore because he has gay friends. Jimmy also starts to accept that his situation isn't entirely Michael's fault, but rather his own as well, and starts to exercise and look for a job. Among his other unrealistic plans for a career, the biggest one is to be a comedian, as he reveals to his father and Trevor .
Amanda is the only person Jimmy shows respect to, with Amanda defending Jimmy when Michael berates him for his laziness and unemployment.
Jimmy and Tracey have a strained relationship, with the early stages of the game showing them trading insults with each other. Both view the other as leading an immature and self-destructive lifestyle, with Tracey treating Jimmy like a kid and Jimmy treating her in a misogynistic way. Following Reuniting the Family, however, their relationship begins to improve. Jimmy also saved her and their parents from Merryweather, after their home was attacked, showing he loves her in spite of their problems.
Jimmy, along with Tracey, has a fondness for Trevor Philips , with both addressing him as "Uncle T".
His favourite musical genre appears to be hip-hop, as he has OG Loc and Madd Dogg CDs, dresses in a very "urban" fashion, and his favourite radio station appears to be West Coast Classics . He also seems to have a liking for rock music, with posters for Los Santos Rock Radio and bands such as Softly Softly Catchy Monkey , BBQ Spaceflight , Sorry Commode , Fatal Incursion and Anguished Cornhole adorning his bedroom walls.
Jimmy is a redheaded, overweight young man of medium height, shorter than the rest of his family and other characters. His favorite outfit consists of a red and black Fruntalot "De Santa 07" baseball jersey with a white undershirt, a pair of grayish blue jeans with red, black and white sneakers and a silver necklace with a star pendant to match. Because of the way he acts and dresses, he appears to be mimicking the appearance and personality of a gangster rapper. He has many tattoos, one of which reads " Edifica adversario tuo aureum pons ad receptum trans. ", which translates to " Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across." He also has the word "entitled" tattooed on the side of his neck.
For his appearance in The Diamond Casino Heist , Jimmy's hair is longer and strawberry blond. He also sports a black Güffy hoodie, sunglasses and a black hat.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Tracey De Santa , formerly Tracey Townley , is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto V , and makes a minor appearance on the Fame or Shame TV show in Grand Theft Auto Online .
She is portrayed by Michal Sinnott .
At some point circa 1991 , Tracey was born to Michael and Amanda De Santa . In 1993 , she became an older sister when her brother Jimmy De Santa was born. While Michael was leading a career in bank robbing, Tracey and her family lived in a trailer park somewhere in the Midwest . Tracey and Jimmy became acquainted with Michael's partner-in-crime, Trevor Philips , who promised to hurt anyone who ever wronged Tracey, when she sat on his lap at one point when she was two. In 2004 , Michael, fearing for his family's safety and wanting to start over, faked his death during a failed robbery in Ludendorff , North Yankton , and moved his family to Los Santos . During this time, her relationship with her family became strained due to her parents disapproving of her choice of lifestyle (including less than stellar boyfriends and several attempts to make porn) and Jimmy's frequent attempts to demean her.
In 2013 , Franklin Clinton breaks into De Santa Residence to repossess Jimmy's car. As he searches for it, he overhears Tracey arguing with Jimmy.
Afterwards, while Michael tries to relax by the pool , he put on earbuds playing music to drown out the sound of Tracey arguing with Amanda about how her then boyfriend, Gary Scales , can't sleepover that night because Amanda thinks that he's a "bum", and accuses him of being homeless. Tracey angrily denies this, screaming that he just doesn't have anywhere else to stay. However, she breaks up with him on the same day, as seen on her Lifeinvader .
Michael interrupting Tracey's party by throwing a speaker overboard.
Later, after Michael and Jimmy finish a bike race to the Del Perro Pier , Jimmy informs Michael that Tracey was out meeting some guys from the porn industry in a yacht near the pier. Michael then swims to the yacht and finds Tracey in the middle of a mini-party, dancing on a table while several of the producers watch. He disrupts the party and tells Tracey to leave with him after throwing one of the producers overboard, despite Tracey's protests. Tracey even reveals that Amanda rented their house to the porn stars the previous summer. Michael steals a Seashark to take him and Tracey ashore, but they are chased by Blake and Freddy , two of the producers. Eventually, after either losing or killing the pursuers, Michael leaves Tracey with Jimmy at the beach.
Later, as she tries to watch Fame or Shame , Michael enters the room to watch Jay Norris 's speech at the Vinewood Bowl . Tracey doesn't want to change the channel, forcing Michael to angrily shoo her off the couch and out of the room.
Later, Tracey auditions for Fame or Shame without telling her parents, but Michael and the recently arrived Trevor find out from Jimmy. When they learn Tracey was auditioning as a dancer, Michael and Trevor, knowing Tracey will embarrass herself due to her lack of dancing skills, head to the Maze Bank Arena , where the audition is being held. When they arrive, Tracey is being introduced to the judges by the host, Lazlow . Tracey performs an erotic dance and Lazlow joins in, enraging both Michael and Trevor. They interrupt the audition and chase Lazlow from the Arena. Afterwards, Tracey calls Michael and berates him for "ruining her life". She seems to move out, as her room appears empty.
After Michael gets into a fight with Amanda's yoga instructor , Fabien LaRouche , Amanda and Jimmy leave. A phone call with Tracey afterwards reveals that she convinced Amanda to leave Michael and move to Fabien's place. Tracey also tells Michael that that she is worried about him, to which Michael responds that she has no idea what she’s talking about.
During Michael's family's absence, Tracey shows that she cares about her father, either sending e-mails asking how Michael is and telling him how her life with Fabien is going, along with posting on Michael's Lifeinvader page, asking if he is still alive. However, if Michael tries to call her, she angrily tells him to leave her alone, before hanging up. It's also implied by her new voicemail message that she starts doing pornographic shows via a webcam.
Tracey and Jimmy watching Michael intimidate Lazlow.
Eventually, Michael decides to convince his family to move back in with him . He and Jimmy go to the Blazing Tattoo studio to take Tracey to a family therapy session, but find her there begging Lazlow for another chance in the Fame or Shame TV program. Lazlow says that he will let her on the show if she gives him a blowjob, which Michael overhears, causing him to attack Lazlow and forcibly pierce his nose, ear and brow, along with tattooing a penis on either his back or chest. He finally ends the humiliating experience by cutting off Lazlow's ponytail. Lazlow, in a panic, agrees to allow Tracey back on Fame or Shame , and Tracey, impressed by her father's devotion, agrees in going with the rest of the family to a therapy session with Dr. Friedlander's . Afterwards, Tracey, along with Amanda and Jimmy agree to move back in with Michael.
At some point later on, Tracey calls Michael and asks him to help deal with a stalker from the internet, who had been following her. If Michael agrees to help, they will go to different areas in Vinewood looking for the stalker. Once they find him, Michael can either kill him or let him go. If Michael spares him, Tracey asks if she can talk about how Michael stood up to the stalker online, but Michael says no. If Michael kills the stalker, Tracey angrily tells him that she just wanted him to chase the stalker away, not kill him. Regardless of what Michael does, she will still be happy that her father helped her. If Michael doesn't agree to help her, she will pay a couple of guys to beat up the stalker, taking money from Michael's bank account to do so.
Finally, after Michael indirectly caused the death of Molly Schultz , the lawyer of billionaire Devin Weston , Merryweather Security operatives are sent to kill Tracey and Amanda in retaliation. Michael rushes home and kills all the Merryweather mercenaries to save his family. Amanda, Jimmy and Tracey once again leave, this time for their own personal safety.
Tracey can be later seen on the in-game TV, appearing on Fame or Shame , where she sings a song called " Daddy Issues ", which is mainly about Michael. Before the show goes to commercials, Lazlow briefly tells the judges to pick her as the winner, as he fears Michael will be mad if they don't. Three Masturbating Monkeys wins the show, much to Jimmy's pleasure as he makes fun of Tracey on her Lifeinvader page about it.
Tracey begins studying for college and, in a conversation while hanging out with Jimmy, Michael says that when he becomes a famous movie producer, he might turn Tracey into a movie star. [ 2 ]
Tracey makes no further appearances.
Franklin, on orders from Devin Weston to kill Michael , lures him out to the desert , telling him that he wants to talk. When Michael arrives, before Franklin can reveal that he actually brought him there to kill him, Michael gets a call from Amanda, who tells Michael that Tracey had been accepted into college. Michael does not have the chance to congratulate her for it, as Franklin kills him afterwards. She, along with her family, moves out of the De Santa residence, which is put up for sale.
Throughout Grand Theft Auto Online , reruns of her episode on Fame or Shame continue to be played on TV. At some point, she gets her own T-shirt merchandise that can be bought in clothing stores.
Jimmy can be heard yelling at Tracey over the phone while working at the GTA Online Protagonist 's arcade .
In 2025 , Michael and Amanda mention that their home is now an "empty nest," implying that Tracey has moved out and is living on her own, though no direct reference is made to her, only to her brother, Jimmy.
Tracey's true personality is hard to define, as she is quite upset about many things in-game, including having bad relationships with the members of her family, who disapprove of her behavior. She appears to be very spoiled, obnoxious, and immature, and is portrayed as a stereotypical "daddy's girl". She is known to be rebellious in her actions against her parents, and even going as far as auditioning for Fame or Shame without their approval. She is an example of the valley girl stereotype.
Tracey is also shown to be naïve and dim-witted, often fitting the role of a stereotypical dumb blonde; her dialogue is almost always used for comic relief. Her sheep–like nature gives her the impression that everyone, including those outside of her family, has her own best interests in mind. When things do not go her way, she throws a tantrum, screaming and pounding her fists on the floor, blaming everyone for "ruining her life".
Despite her rebellious, childish, and above all, disagreeable behavior, she nevertheless retains a sense of decency. There are several moments throughout the story where she shown to be respectful and compassionate towards her father. Through e-mails and text messages, she is shown to be worrying about his safety and even missing him during Michael's separation from his family. And despite crashing her Fame or Shame audition, she still prefers him as a father figure over Fabien.
Unlike the rest of her family, Tracey has blonde hair (however, this may be dyed as her eyebrows are black). She has three sets of tattoos: a line of stars which runs from behind her left ear, across her back, to her right shoulder blade; a tattoo on her lower back (commonly known as a " tramp stamp "); and a butterfly on the top of her left foot.
Tracey owns a yellow Issi with a silver stripe down the middle. Like all of the De Santa family vehicles, it will always spawn at Michael's Safehouse while they are living there. If the vehicle is destroyed, it will retain all modifications, both performance improving and cosmetic, when it respawns. This Issi has custom number plates reading "P3RSEUS", referencing Perseus , the high end fashionable clothing brand feature in Grand Theft Auto IV .
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Ronald "Ron" Jakowski is a main character and deuteragonist to Trevor Philips in Grand Theft Auto V , and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is voiced by David Mogentale .
Ron Jakowski is a paranoid conspiracy theorist, entrepreneur, and podcaster. He is an associate and neighbor of Trevor Philips, intern at Trevor Philips Enterprises , and the host of a podcast during the Blaine County Radio Community Hour on Blaine County Radio . He occasionally acts as the CEO of Trevor's business, managing it while Trevor is not in Sandy Shores.
Ron Jakowski previously worked as an accountant. He was happily married for 12 years before he met Trevor Philips . Trevor convinced him that his wife was only holding him back in life and scared her when he threatened dismemberment. Ron was kicked out by his wife and they divorced, with Ron deep in debt due to paying settlement fees to her. He ended up becoming Trevor's "best friend" and moved into a trailer next door to him in Sandy Shores , San Andreas . He began to obsess over conspiracy theories and work for Trevor's company, Trevor Philips Enterprises . At some point, he began hosting Blaine County Radio 's Community Hour . As part of his conspiracy theories, he worked with drone-jamming technology.
In 2013 , the GTA Online Protagonist , working for Families member Gerald , steals an RV belonging to Trevor Philips Enterprises . Ron messages the Protagonist, who comes to Trevor's trailer to settle the issue and watches as Trevor instructs the player to do work for him to make-up for taking his RV. Ron then gives the player missions for Trevor and Trevor Philips Enterprises, mostly comprising of taking various things from The Lost MC , such as one of their vans , a tanker , a van full of weapons , some bikes , an RV meth lab , and a boat . He also tasks the player with stealing a Cargobob from Fort Zancudo , a boat from the federal government (removed in the Enhanced Edition), and a plane from a rival drug dealing crew . He also occasionally calls the Player to remind them about Crate Drops (removed in the Freemode Events Update ).
He later helps Trevor pitch the Series A heist to the player. He is often the person the Crew meets at the end of each setup mission. He also provides information to the crew through Earpieces during some of the missions. He is then seen briefly in the Finale, informing the Crew of the Gangs incoming attack on Trevor.
Ron is first seen trying to calm down Johnny Klebitz while he is angrily heading towards Trevor's trailer. However, the efforts of Ron and Wade Hebert could not prevent Trevor from murdering Johnny.
The three men get into Trevor's Bodhi to drive towards The Lost MC 's location in Grapeseed . Once there, they confront and threaten Terry Thorpe and Clay Simons . This causes the two bikers to ride back to Stab City to warn the other Lost members, but Trevor kills them en route.
Eventually, the trio arrive at The Range , the Lost's headquarters. Ron and Wade wait in Trevor's truck while Trevor kills the bikers. After the bikers are killed, Ron and Trevor drive towards Ortega 's trailer. Trevor rams Ortega's trailer into the river, before either killing or sparing Ortega.
A few days later, some members of The Lost ransack Trevor's Trailer in retaliation for Johnny's murder. Following this, Trevor decides to wipe out The Lost's presence in Blaine County . Ron assists him in taking over the Sandy Shores Airfield . Trevor orders Ron to sneak into the airfield while Trevor provides cover as a lookout in a water tower. After Trevor "buys" a Sniper Rifle , Ron takes his Blazer and sneaks into the airfield undetected, thanks to Trevor's sniping. Ron places explosives on the gas tank and it explodes. The duo flies off in two airplanes and deliver the guns to their Mexican contact, before landing at McKenzie Field .
After Wade discovers Michael Townley 's whereabouts in Los Santos , Trevor puts Ron in temporary charge of Trevor Philips Enterprises while he and Wade are in Los Santos. Ron remains in Sandy Shores and runs the business during Trevor's absence. While Trevor is in Los Santos, Ron occasionally contacts Trevor asking for advice and to inform Trevor that some Chinese men have been surveying Trevor's trailer and his meth lab . Trevor can also call Ron on occasion to ask him about the business.
After working with Martin Madrazo , kidnapping his wife and being exiled from Los Santos, Trevor finally returns to Sandy Shores with Michael and he starts working with Ron again. While Trevor was away, Ron says that he has been monitoring chatter and tapping into Merryweather networks to collect information about them. Trevor uses this information to " intercept " a Merryweather weapons plane and later derailing a Merryweather train carrying precious goods. Ron also interacts with Michael for the first time during his stay in Sandy Shores, when they can be seen discussing Ron's paranoia in one switch scene , and the player can speak to Ron while controlling Michael using the interact button, although Ron will respond by insulting Michael.
After Trevor returns to Los Santos, Ron is only heard again in two missions. The first is in Bury the Hatchet if the player starts the mission using Trevor, where Trevor asks Ron to prepare a plane for him to go to North Yankton . The other depends on the player's choice at the end of the game.
Ron sends a text message to Trevor informing him that he has left a gift to him by his trailer . During the mission The Third Way , if the player switches to Trevor while the protagonists are driving towards their targets, Trevor will call Ron to inform him that Trevor Philips Enterprises ' future looks good, since they have more money coming in and that the "Chinese problem" will soon be taken care of. Ron appears optimistic after hearing this.
Ron sends an e-mail message to Michael saying that he can't believe he killed Trevor, and that thanks to him he lost everything he had, his best friend and the business they developed. Ron insults Michael, who treats his email as "spam" and tells Ron not to contact him again.
Ron sends a text message to Trevor informing him that he has left a gift to him by his trailer .
During and after the storyline, Ron can often be found outside Trevor's trailer, spouting random conspiracy theories or training his aim by shooting tin cans. He can also be found inside the trailer listening to a radio through headphones. If the player interacts with Ron as Trevor, he will insult Ron for how "useless" he is with Ron apologizing as a response. If the player interacts with Ron as Michael, he will call him "Trevor's weird friend" and creepy, but Ron does not respond. Franklin is the only protagonist who cannot interact with Ron because they did not meet each other in the storyline.
In 2017 , Ron secures a partnership with the GTA Online Protagonist in the contraband smuggling business, in which he gets a 3% cut of the goods smuggled by the player. Once the protagonist purchases a hangar , he is seen trying to dispose the bodies of two agents. When introducing the hangar, he makes a passing reference to Trevor having "gone Vinewood on him" and refers to him indirectly as his "old boss", revealing Ron and Trevor's partnership has come to an end sometime between 2013 and 2017.
A new episode of the Blaine County Radio Community Hour podcast is broadcast by Blaine County Radio, featuring various references to events during Grand Theft Auto V 's timeline, Grand Theft Auto itself and events such as snow in Los Santos during Christmas events and switching characters, and a monologue indirectly referencing the fact that the GTA Online 's timeline is now advancing in real-life timing. It also stars a guest, a right-wing activist named Sophia Bowles-Carmichael . Eventually, Ron discovers that Sophia merely came onto the show to seduce him as she hadn't been with a man in a decade. She attempts to bang on the doors of Ron's rooms to let her back in, but Ron rejects this.
In late 2022 , Ron calls the GTA Online Protagonist, telling them an unidentified group has taken over Trevor's old property at Ace Liquor in Sandy Shores and asking them to meet him there. When the protagonist arrives, they find a crowd gathered to watch an impromptu wrestling match, as Ron had somehow ended up going against a large woman, later revealed to be Luchadora , who easily pins him down. Ron asks the protagonist to help him before things are interrupted by the group's leader, Dax , who questions the protagonist.
Ron introduces them as his "extremely dangerous" friend, and after determining the protagonist is cool, Dax introduces them to the rest of his troupe , including Luchadora and Labrat . Ron then expresses concern to Dax about Chef , who has passed out after taking a large number of drugs, and advises the protagonist not to join up with the troupe, seeing them as nothing more than a bunch of "weirdos". He later manages to rouse Chef and help him leave the scene, just before The Lost MC 's attack on the liquor store.
In early 2025 , Ron sends the GTA Online Protagonist a text message informing them that the McKenzie Field Hangar , which was previously owned by Trevor, is going to be put for sale. He also claims that he never trusted Oscar Guzman and asks the protagonist to let him know who ends up purchasing the hangar.
Rockstar describes Ron by saying "if his best buddy Trevor Philips is like a shark, Ron is like a remora", who is "paranoid but terrified" of Trevor.
Ron describes himself as a "independent thinker" who lives in Sandy Shores to be "away from the man". This has resulted in Ron becoming very paranoid, constantly worrying about government surveillance, such as wiretapping cellphones, or various other conspiracies. This can be seen multiple times during the storyline, like when he claims that the military or FIB sent a drone to spy on him and Trevor due to their arms dealing or when he is found outside Trevor's Trailer using a device to locate alien frequencies.
He is an unlikely friend of Trevor but as said above, he is terrified of him and so goes to great lengths to appease him whenever he can, such as when he let Trevor bully him into giving up his share of the profits of an arms dealing job the two carried out, especially if Trevor is close to losing his very short temper. Trevor describes Ron as a "conspiracy theorist", which fits with his paranoia. Despite Ron's timidness, he acts as a sort of henchman for Trevor and helps him with missions such as sneaking around the Lost MC's base to plant explosives while Trevor watches and covers him through a sniper scope, which indicates a level of trust between them, and when Trevor introduces Ron to Michael, he describes Ron as "very loyal" and "dependable".
Due to trying to appease Trevor whenever he can, Ron will always agree with Trevor even when the latter insults him or his conspiracy theories, making him something of a "yes man". Despite his fear, he seems to genuinely look up to Trevor, even with Trevor often threatening him with violence. This concern can be seen in the mission Derailed, where Ron admits to Michael that Trevor is indeed a "bad person", but he does have a "sensitive side". Ron's undying loyalty to Trevor is also shown in a text at the end of Something Sensible , where he curses Michael for killing Trevor, showing also that Ron's loyalty to him is more than just out of fear.
Despite his loyalty to Trevor, it's clear that Trevor is a toxic influence on Ron. Trevor's regular threats of violence against Ron have had negative effects on Ron's life (Trevor was the reason Ron's wife divorced him after he threatened to dismember her), and his fear of what will happen should Trevor follow through on his threats causes him to agree with whatever he's planning in order to appease him, leading him to develop Stockholm Syndrome to a degree. This is exemplified during Smuggler's Run when Ron, fearful that the GTA Online Protagonist might become hostile should he screw up, begs them not to hurt him. Despite their business partnership apparently being broken as of 2025 , Ron still appears to be fearful of Trevor, asking the GTA Online Protagonist to let him know who purchases the McKenzie Field Hangar Trevor used to own, believing Oscar Guzman has betrayed Trevor by putting the business for sale.
Despite his timidness and meek personality, Ron has shown himself capable of murder without any prompt from Trevor, as the GTA Online Protagonist met Ron in a hangar after he just killed two agents. Ron also became a partner of another business and occasionally gave out missions that sometimes required killing other competitors to the smuggling operation, showing that Ron has become dangerous and ruthless in his own right due to Trevor's influence and his own paranoid personality.
Ron Jakowski is a middle-aged white man. He has short grey hair, stubble, blue eyes, and a cleft chin, and wears a grey bucket hat with a red, white, and blue band, and large-framed tortoiseshell eyeglasses with one hinge taped. If his hat is removed, Ron's receding hairline can be seen. As a result of his meth usage, Ron regularly appeared with scabs and blemishes on his face. By 2022 , his face is significantly cleaner, suggesting he may no longer be using methamphetamine by this time.
His typical outfit consists of his hat and glasses, a red plaid shirt worn over a white tank top, a necklace with a small medallion, tan cargo shorts, a knee brace, and Birkenstock sandals. In 2022, he now sports a blue plaid shirt instead of a red one, his shorts are now brown, and his hat band is black and yellow.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Wade Hebert is a main character and tritagonist to Trevor Philips in Grand Theft Auto V . He is also briefly mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is voiced by Matthew Maher .
Wade is a friend of Trevor and Ron Jakowski , as well as the cousin of Floyd and Dax .
In 2012 , while Wade was on his way to "the gathering" (a reference to the Gathering of the Juggalos ) with Daisy Bell , Kush-Chronic and several others, they stopped at Sandy Shores to buy some drugs. Wade last saw his friends driving to a quarry with a local dealer named Trevor Philips , who likely killed them, unbeknownst to Wade, who thought his friends simply abandoned him. Trevor proceeded to look after Wade and at one point sodomized him with a hockey stick.
It is also mentioned by Wade's cousin Floyd that Wade had a past relationship with a woman named Evelyn .
In 2013 , Wade is first seen alongside Ron Jakowski trying to calm down Johnny Klebitz after Trevor had sexual intercourse with Johnny's girlfriend Ashley Butler , which ended with Trevor killing Johnny and starting a war between him and The Lost MC ; Wade joins Trevor in his attacks against the gang.
Wade is later asked by Trevor to search for Michael Townley , who Wade locates in Los Santos , after several failed attempts and threats from Trevor, under the name "Michael De Santa". They move into the apartment of Wade's cousin, Floyd , much to Floyd's dismay. Wade also assists Trevor in scouting the port for a heist .
After an incident in Floyd's apartment, which results in the deaths of both Floyd and his girlfriend, Debra , Trevor, in an attempt to stop Wade from discovering their deaths, claims that Floyd and Debra have "disappeared", just like Wade's old friends, before taking over the Vanilla Unicorn strip club and ordering two strippers to attend to Wade. Wade remains with them even after the main storyline, and even has dialogue with him claiming that each time that he tries to leave, the strippers give him another dance.
In 2022 , Wade is presumably still living in Sandy Shores and appears to have reconnected with his old crew, the Fooliganz , following Trevor's departure. Wade invites his cousin Dax , the leader of the Fooliganz, to set up shop within Trevor's former businesses, such as Ace Liquor and his disused warehouse . Though Wade himself does not make a reappearance, he is mentioned by the gang, who seem to respect him and talk highly of him.
Wade appears to be a parody of the stereotypical Juggalo; a fan of the Insane Clown Posse, Tech N9ne and other artists that make music called "horrorcore" or "the wicked shit" originating from the Midwest. He is described by his artwork as an "intellectual", Wade is believed to be mentally challenged, based on his speech and dialogue. He is loyal to Trevor and will follow his every order, most likely out of fear, as Trevor often intimidates him. Part of this behavior comes from the fact that he has an inherently innocent, almost childlike mindset and considers Trevor to be a good person, believing everything he says, even when he is obviously lying.
However, despite his apparent innocent and childish behavior, he doesn't seem to have moral issues regarding killing someone (as he suggested to kill Ashley Butler right after Trevor killed Johnny Klebitz ) even though he actually never killed anyone during the game. It could be possible that he ails from a stunted moral compass and simply does not have a good understanding of right and wrong. Also, as part of the contrast with his goofy appearance, Wade is a resourceful person in finding people, having been able to track down Michael De Santa by knowing only his past alias as Michael Townley and the family members.
Wade is a Caucasian male of average size. He has brown hair styled into dreadlocks and tied back, blue eyes, a slight goatee, and several facial piercings. Being an associate of Trevor , Wade shows physical signs of meth usage, with his face being heavily scarred. His usual outfit consists of a black and red Fatal Incursion jersey over a white t-shirt, and baggy JNCO -style blue jeans with brown sandals and white socks. He has a brown Harsh Souls bracer on his right wrist and a watch on his left. His alternative outfit is composed of a red bandanna wrapped around his head, a sleeveless black-and-red Fatal Incursion hoodie over a black T-shirt, baggy black Tripp-style shorts and black sneakers with red shoelaces.
Wade often paints his face white and black. He also wears eyelet earrings in his stretched ears, which seem to be around an inch and has several tattoos on his body, most notably on his hands and neck.
Wade's appearance is very likely based on Shaggy 2 Dope of the Insane Clown Posse.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Chop is a character appearing as the tritagonist to Franklin Clinton in Grand Theft Auto V and a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto Online , as part of The Contract update.
Chop is a large Rottweiler dog . He is owned by Lamar Davis , but he lives with Franklin for the majority of the game's storyline due to Lamar believing that Chop will be safer with him, which Franklin agrees to, saying that "it's the best place for him anyway".
During some missions, the player is able to switch to Chop in order to find certain people or checkpoints. Chop can also aid the player in finding hidden packages .
Chop first appears in the mission named after him , where he is brought along by Lamar to help kidnap a Ballas member named D . When D crashes his motorcycle and attempts to escape on foot, Franklin has no choice but to run after him on foot, using Chop's sense of smell to aid in locating him. The player can switch to Chop's point of view while he searches for D. Despite Franklin having to intervene when he's distracted by the prospect of humping a male dog, Chop is able to subdue D, allowing Lamar and Franklin to apprehend him and pull him into the van . However, the duo are forced to free D when Lamar risks revealing their location. Once the mission has been completed, Lamar will call Franklin, asking him to take care of Chop for the time being, and from this moment on, Chop will spawn at Franklin's safehouse.
Chop later appears in the mission Hood Safari , in which he accompanies Franklin, Lamar and Trevor as they do a deal with some Ballas on Grove Street . The deal goes wrong, and a large gunfight ensues between the protagonists , the Ballas, and some policemen . Franklin orders Chop to go back home, after which Chop quickly flees the scene.
Chop appears once again in the mission Predator , in which he chases the O'Neil brothers with Franklin and helps him locate Elwood O'Neil in the woods and take him out before he destroys Trevor's chopper with an RPG . The player can switch to Chop's view in this mission again, while he tries to find Elwood.
Chop is still alive and living with Franklin as of 2021 . By this time, Franklin is Chop's official owner, as evidenced by Lamar referring to Chop as "[Franklin]'s dog." In one of the Security Contracts , Franklin mentions that he's the only one he knows of in his neighborhood that owns a dog, with others having more exotic pets instead.
During the events of The Contract update, he is seen with Franklin at the F. Clinton and Partner headquarters. He has aged noticeably since the events of Grand Theft Auto V , with gray fur above his eyes and on his muzzle. Franklin mentions that he doesn't "get around too much no more." The player can interact with Chop by petting him.
Chop also helps Franklin and Lamar fight some of the Vagos during the mission Short Trip - Seed Capital by biting one of them and leading the two to the warehouse.
The Agency Security Guard is fond of Chop, being certain that the Rottweiler could still reach any intruders that might break into the agency and rip them apart despite his old age. The dog also keeps him company during the night and will do anything for treats in the form of jerky.
The player could transform into Chop after consuming a peyote plant in the backyard of the Clinton Residence , beginning with the Halloween Surprise 2019 event, and any subsequent weekly events where the peyote plants are active on the map.
It is possible for the player to obtain a throwable ball in the weapon wheel , allowing them to be able to throw the ball for Chop to fetch. Chop will run after the ball and return it to the player, allowing them to pick it up and throw it again. If the player chooses to take Chop for a walk and gets into a car, Chop will get in the passenger seat of the car. Be aware that if the player has Chop with them and calls somebody on their phone to hang out , once they reach their location, Chop will get out of the car and run home, while the friend gets into the front seat. For some reason, Chop will not ride in the back seat of any car and will not ride in the back of a van as he is shown doing in certain missions. He also ignores other vehicles (aerial or aquatic), although in the mission Predator he can be seen aboard Trevor's Frogger.
The player is able to take Chop for walks anywhere, but caution must be taken around busy streets or thoroughfares, as Chop's AI is sometimes not intelligent enough to avoid oncoming vehicles. He can be killed in gunfights, and can also fall into swimming pools or other bodies of water and drown after a period of time, but he will always spawn back unhappily at Franklin's house. While walking Chop, he can attack pedestrians if they are targeted by Franklin, or if they attack him first. This can result in a two-star wanted level for Franklin and the police shooting Chop, as well as Franklin.
Chop was customizable via the iFruit App on the player's smartphone, by entering their Rockstar Games Social Club account in the app, and it would be connected to their Grand Theft Auto V copy. From the app, the player was able to buy any type of colored collars for Chop. Once changed in the app, Chop would wear the customized collar in the player's game. He could also be taught various simple tricks and commands through the app, such as "sit" and "paw". His happiness meter would be directly influenced by his wellbeing in iFruit, which affected his behavior in-game. After the iFruit App's servers shut down on December 12, 2022, all these functionalities have been lost and it is no longer possible to take care of Chop.
Since Chop is an animal, no particular character traits can be distinguishable, and the only major determining factor for Chop's behavior is controlled through the iFruit app. If his happiness is low, Chop will be generally upset, and won't immediately respond to Franklin if he calls him or asks him to perform tricks. However, if his happiness level is high, he'll eagerly follow Franklin wherever he goes, and will perform tricks upon Franklin's request. Chop may bark or whine at the player if he approaches.
Chop is generally a friendly dog, but he will attack any NPC who inflicts injury to Franklin, or threatens him verbally. If the player throws a ball for Chop to fetch, he will always run over to pick it up, unless the ball lands in the water or in any other unreachable location. Chop's AI is shown to be quite intelligent, as he is able to navigate through corridors or obstacles with ease, always finding his way back to the player and rarely getting stuck.
In GTA Online , Chop can be found on his bed, sitting next to Franklin, sleeping under Imani 's desk, or if the user has the personal quarters upgrade, he can be found sleeping on the player's bed or couch. If Chop is sitting next to Franklin, the user will be able to pet Chop.
Plushie Chop .
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Pavel (Russian: Павел) is a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online , introduced as part of The Cayo Perico Heist update.
He is portrayed by Rockstar Games performance director Brandon Beilis .
Pavel is a Russian sailor working on the Kosatka submarine, which had been modified and converted to allow it to be operated by a crew of one; as such, he is responsible for almost every role onboard, from engineering, maintenance, and gunnery to being the ship's cook.
Prior to working with the player, Pavel was a Russian Navy sailor, having made several friends within the Navy and other branches of the Russian military. It is unknown when Pavel left the Navy for the criminal underworld, but it may have been in his late 20s, and it supposedly occurred after a discussion with his former captain. Pavel was active in Russia's post-Soviet era of the 1990s, but is unable to recall his activities as that time was "a hell of a drug."
After Pavel left the Navy, he had been running jobs for the Madrazo Cartel using the Kosatka, and was about to work with the IAA . He was making easy money (presumably smuggling) on the Brazil to West Africa trans-Atlantic route. Before that, he claims to have faked a sailing accident for the Governor of Liberty State , visited the North Pole, liberated sensitive documents for the Canadian government, worked with an unnamed American private military company on an operation that affected him to the point that he "swore [he] would never leave [his] submarine again", abducted the CEO of Lombank on a cruise ship near Cayo Perico [ 11 ] , and spent a summer in a torture cage after trifling with the Welsh. [ 12 ] At some unknown point in time, Pavel also encountered the Loch Santos Monster and became friends with the creature in the process.
Pavel also became acquainted with FIB Strategic Intelligence operative Jodi Marshall . According to Jodi, Pavel was her last assignment before the FIB attempted to have her assassinated for knowing the "wrong secrets". Pavel helped Jodi disappear without a trace and even suggested that she use the Kosatka as a hideout, but she declined. The two subsequently stayed in touch over the years.
In late 2020 , Miguel Madrazo contacts the protagonist and suggests that they purchase the Kosatka submarine to use it in planning and executing The Cayo Perico Heist .
Pavel is first seen when the player enters the Kosatka. Climbing down from the sail hatch, Pavel is heard in the distance singing " The Song of the Volga Boatmen " while working near the Sparrow storage pad in the Moon Pool. Warning the protagonist to not touch anything just as they're peering at some meters, he guides them towards his voice. He introduces the player to the Kosatka's primary features and explains the plans and preparations formulated by Miguel Madrazo. He also explains some of his background and prior jobs while touring the player before returning to his duties elsewhere on the Kosatka.
Once the player initiates the scouting phase of the Cayo Perico Heist, Pavel will give instructions to the player through radio communications. He will also sometimes get carried away and begin reminiscing about his past jobs and various acquaintances.
After arriving to the island and sneaking past El Rubio's guards, Pavel will relay the basic key locations the player must find, and take pictures of, in order to progress. Using satellite imaging and camera footage, Pavel will inspect and explain possible points of interests as well as various routes and items that may be of interest to the player. He will also talk about miscellaneous locations such as the graveyard if the player takes pictures of them.
Pavel will continue to give important information, details as well as additional dialogue throughout the heist prep and finale.
When the finale begins for the Cayo Perico Heist, Pavel is frustrated from the nuances between screens and buttons before he begins to brief the player. He is interrupted by the arrival of Miguel Madrazo, who came to remind the player of their objective to steal the files El Rubio has on his family. Miguel proceeds to give a sort of pep talk and tries to cheer for the player(s), only to turn the conversation into awkward silence before leaving for the Music Locker. Pavel and the protagonist are both left astonished by Miguel's conduct before he sends the player off to the heist.
Pavel is not seen in the ending cutscene for the Cayo Perico Heist, but continues to happily work for the player and support them as they perform more heists at El Rubio's Compound .
At some point during his work with the player, Pavel considered bringing Jodi Marshall along as an accomplice on their heists but decided against it, preferring to keep the robberies a two-person job.
While Pavel doesn't physically appear in The Contract update, he is briefly mentioned by the player's new business partner, Franklin Clinton . Despite swearing that "he would never leave the Kosatka submarine again", he visits Franklin and the GTA Online Protagonist 's Agency (off-screen) in 2021 .
Franklin claims that Pavel went through his office saying he knows the GTA Online Protagonist, talking about "caviars and submarines ", and asking when the protagonist is going to take " another trip to the Caribbean ", confirming they are still occassionally robbing El Rubio's Compound to this date.
In late 2024 , Pavel resumes contact with Jodi Marshall, who has retained backdoor access to the FIB's files after her "early retirement" from the agency. Together, the two come up with a plan to exploit this for profit by stealing various valuables listed in the files and selling them to interested buyers. Pavel identifies the Darnell Bros. garment factory, which was recently put up for sale, as a good location to plan their clandestine operations, and calls the GTA Online Protagonist to ask them to buy the factory, promising them new business opportunities.
Once the player purchases and arrives at the factory, they find Pavel taking a nap while ambient noise plays from his phone — the sound of a submarine's sonar, which he claims helps him sleep. After being startled awake, Pavel greets the player and leads them down to the factory's basement, where he introduces them to Jodi and briefly goes over their shared history. Jodi then pulls out the protagonist's FIB file and reveals her knowledge of their past before admitting that their expertise makes them a worthy "field operative" to help with the clandestine operations she has in mind.
Pavel expresses his excitement at the protagonist and Jodi "getting along" before excusing himself, as he needs to return to the Kosatka for virtual poker night with several acquaintances of his: Mikalay, Viktor and Crazy Vadzim. Leaving Jodi and the protagonist to get acquainted, Pavel promises to be back soon and leaves the factory.
Following this, Pavel can occasionally be found in the factory's basement, as he mentions being "amphibious" now thanks to Jodi, implying he got more used to leaving the Kosatka. He will interact with Jodi and the player if they are present. He also plays a supporting role in each of the clandestine operations, communicating with Jodi and the player over the radio and occasionally providing useful intel during the planning work.
Much of Pavel's dialog is quite 'meta' and sometimes borders on breaking the fourth wall.
Pavel is unlocked as a phone contact after purchasing the Kosatka .
Juan Strickler , also known as El Rubio , is a character appearing in Grand Theft Auto Online as the main antagonist in The Cayo Perico Heist update.
He is portrayed by the late Joseph Melendez .
El Rubio is considered the world's most notorious narcotrafficker, who owns the island of Cayo Perico in Colombia , one of the most secure private islands in the entire world, and uses it as the nerve center of his drug empire. [ 3 ] He was also involved in turf wars and the disappearance of reporters, and is also supplier to the Madrazo Cartel , a Mexican cartel operating in the San Andreas . [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
Little information is given about El Rubio's past. He briefly mentions that his grandfather ("Opa") was German, meaning he is a Colombian of German descent and suggesting he is a descendant of one of the many Germans who immigrated to Colombia during World War II . [ 6 ]
The Strickler family's coat of arms has the motto "Mit Offenen Armen", meaning "With Open Arms" in German, and is used as the territorial coat of arms of his own private island. Strickler is also a firearms expert, owning a golden dubbed " Perico Pistol " engraved with his coat of arms. A golden " El Strickler " military rifle, modified from the Vom Feuer Military Rifle used by his private security, was also patented by Strickler himself. [ 7 ]
Several vintage photographs can be found inside El Rubio's Compound , including a Colombian farm, gunslingers and several characters possibly depicting Strickler's ancestors. Other modern photographs of Strickler himself can also be found in the compound, referencing famous pictures of real-life Colombian drug cartel leaders.
The storage rooms and office in his compound contain many photographs on the walls showing him engaged in various activities, including:
Stock images of Red Dead Redemption 2 and Red Dead Online gameplay are used to represent these vintage photographs in Colombia due to the lack of vintage-looking areas in San Andreas and late 1890s-looking pedestrians, also serving as an Easter egg towards these titles.
El Rubio was first mentioned at the end of the Los Santos Summer Special update, in a 10-second teaser for The Cayo Perico Heist update entitled " surveil.exe ", which consisted of a digital surveillance file entitled the El Rubio Dossier . The 10-second teaser concluded with a view of the corpse of a John Doe on Vespucci Beach with the notation that his last known visual contact was at LSIA and his known affiliations include El Rubio.
Strickler is introduced by name when the player meets Miguel Madrazo at The Music Locker in 2020 . Miguel claims he somehow managed to get hold of "decades' worth of intel" which he was threatening to take to the DEA unless the cartel renegotiate their drug supply prices. He is also under surveillance by Globopol , forcing him to stay in Cayo Perico .
Strickler is seen greeting the player, English Dave , and Keinemusik when they arrive at the island's airfield . After a short talk, the player is required to drive him and English Dave to the party , where he gets Scott Storch to read a pre-written sycophantic introduction speech before introducing Keinemusik to take over the DJ position. Later, while scoping out the island, the player witnesses Strickler ordering his guards to execute Gustavo for embarrassing him in front of his guests, by feeding him to his black panther . If the player returns to continue scoping out the island, Strickler can be found dancing in his seat at the beach party.
During the heist itself, Strickler resides in his secure compound and can be heard over the loudspeaker system berating his guards . Once he realized that his vault has been robbed, he mans the minigun of his Valkyrie MOD.0 to hunt for and attack the player. He will continuously taunt and insult the online protagonist via loudspeaker until they manage to escape the island. After the protagonist successfully retrieves the Madrazo files during the initial heist, Miguel remains in contact with Pavel and continues supplying information on Strickler's shipments and securities, allowing the protagonist to keep robbing Cayo Perico as they please.
During the subsequent heist playthroughs, Strickler can be heard ranting over the loudspeaker about being robbed, at one point implying that he had the majority of his original guards killed for their failure in stopping the players, and later confirmed by Pavel on phone messages after completing a heist replay, as he witnessed the murders on satellite images of the island. During these rants, he claims that he thinks one of his guards helped the robbers. [ 8 ]
While El Rubio doesn't physically appear in The Contract update, it is mentioned that Pavel has visited Franklin Clinton 's Agency (off-screen) in 2021 , looking for the GTA Online Protagonist so that they may take " another trip to the Caribbean ". This confirms that the protagonist and Pavel are still occasionally robbing El Rubio's Compound to this date.
El Rubio is briefly mentioned during the events of the Money Fronts update in 2025 , as one of the clients of corrupt banker Mr. Faber , alongside countless other notorious criminals.
In the A Safehouse in the Hills update, the Richman Villa becomes available for purchase. If the player buys it, Miguel becomes aware of the protagonist being his neighbour and invites them to parties at his house , telling them to bring Strickler's Sinsimito Tequila; this implies the protagonist is still robbing him by late 2025.
When in public, Strickler presents himself as a fun and generous philanthropist and attempts to maintain a good image. However, when alone, he is revealed to be cruel, vicious and ruthless. During The Cayo Perico Heist, he can be heard threatening his guards over the speakers on the island, oftentimes for minor things. Because of his brutality, he can be a very intimidating man, as seen during his conversation with Scott Storch.
Due to the countless robberies in his compound since 2020, Strickler has become extremely paranoid, and it has gotten to the point where he has stopped trusting his own employees and security guards, constantly ranting about their failure in stopping the players, and killing his own employees after suspecting they were helping the players rob him.
El Rubio's character background appears to be inspired by Carlos Lehder , due to his German ancestry and Colombian nationality and the linguistic combination of Spanish and German in his name, and owning a private island which serves as a drug-smuggling operation headquarters and party island.
His character and voice is similar to Scarface film protagonist Tony Montana , portrayed by Al Pacino ; both characters are obsessed with wild cats (and both have one as pets) and valuable antiques (as shown in Scarface: The World Is Yours video game).
He also bears some resemblance to the late John McAfee , founder of McAfee Corporation , who has been the subject of paranoiac behavior and legal troubles over drug manufacturing, weapon possession, and murder during his residency in Belize in the early-2010s.
The literal translation of "El Rubio" is "The Blonde" in Spanish. His other nickname, "The Blond Colombian", also alludes to this.
Agent 14 is a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online , introduced in the Heists update.
He is portrayed by Ryan Farrell .
He is the first on-screen character added with DLC content, although a previously unused dialogue icon in the game files existed prior to his addition, albeit using a different facial model [ 2 ] , indicating he was intended to appear prior to this update.
During the Heists update, Agent 14's code name is never used in-game. His code name is only referred to in the game files, credits, and on the Rockstar Newswire . After the Gunrunning update, his code name appears on the phone from his first gunrunning contact.
Initially, not much is revealed about Agent 14, as he speaks very little about his organization or background. When he introduces himself to the GTA Online Protagonists , he informs them that they are not helping him and that he is not involved, just a "bystander doing a favor".
During some of the setup missions, he tasks the players with doing dealings with IAA agent Karen Daniels , establishing that he has information about her surveillance detail keeping an eye on her.
During his interaction with the player, he reveals he has an unnamed boss, who arranges The Humane Labs Raid . Lester Crest explicitly lets the player know that he prefers knowing nothing or as little as possible when dealing with Agent 14, including with any of the jobs he has. However, according to Lester, he still gets a finder's fee from Agent 14 or the organization he is working for by referring the player(s) as "degenerates" for hire.
Lester Crest calls the player after The Fleeca Job to inform them that he's working on a potential new score, but has received word of a job offer in the meantime. He states that he personally "wouldn't touch it with a ten foot barge pole" because he doesn't know any of the players, but thought the protagonist might be interested in taking it and passes along their address. Shortly after the call, the player can go to their high-end apartment and let Agent 14 inside, after which they subsequently point the way to the planning room, while the host answers the door buzzer again for the rest of the crew. With the crew assembled, he will introduce himself as the bystander of an organization that needs the crew's services, informing them that he is not employing the players, but only offering them an opportunity.
The crew is then briefed on getting Professor Maxim Rashkovsky out of Bolingbroke Penitentiary . The agent informs the players that the professor did indeed commit the crimes that he is charged with, but that his organization needs the man to be free in order to help them with a future job. He helps the heist crew via voice communication throughout the course of the setup missions, until they finally break the professor out of prison .
After the professor has escaped the prison and, eventually, the country, he provides schematics of the Humane Labs and Research facility that helps Agent 14 create a plan to complete the crew's next task, to infiltrate the Humane Labs . Agent 14 says that the Humane Labs used to be controlled by a pharmaceutical company owned by Rashkovsky and Dima Popov , but now has been acquired by a shadow company owned by Don Percival , the CEO of Merryweather Security , whom he refers to be a "war mongering, right wing douche with all the subtlety of a red dildo". Agent 14's organization believes that Percival is up to no good in the Humane Labs due to some intelligence pointing towards the development of a nerve agent, which is why he wants the crew to infiltrate the facility and steal any intelligence about what is actually going on in the labs.
After completing several other setup missions and the lab raid itself, he thanks the crew for their help, expressing his joy that they didn't get themselves killed, unlike other operatives he has lead in the field before. Following this, he cuts radio contact.
Agent 14 reappears in 2017 for the Gunrunning update. Upon entering a session, he calls the player, making them aware of the latest addition to Maze Bank Foreclosures – Bunkers . After purchasing a bunker, the player meets with Agent 14 inside the bunker, who give the player a tour of the entire area, keeping them insight on how the business of arms trade works.
During the course of Gunrunning, it becomes apparent that Agent 14 is affiliated with the Mobile Operations organization. This organization manages the Disruption Logistics network and provides Mobile Operations , which Agent 14 is the boss of.
Agent 14 returns in The Doomsday Heist update, where it is confirmed that he is an agent of the IAA. In the finale for Act 1, The Data Breaches , he is first seen in a video call made by Avon Hertz , where he reveals that he has interacted with Avon at some point prior and clearly doesn't like him. 14 doesn't believe Avon's warnings about a potential war and blows him off, stating that he has a potluck to attend before hanging up. At the end of the mission, 14 and Phoenicia Rackman are seen entering the war room of the IAA facility that was recently under attack. 14 and Rackman meet with the players, with the former vouching for them to the latter, despite then lying shortly after, claiming that he doesn't actually know them. Shortly after, Avon arrives and asks 14 if he can log onto his AI, Cliffford , on 14's computer , which he permits.
In the opening cutscene for Act 2, The Bogdan Problem , Agent 14 attends a meeting between the players, Rackman, Avon, and Lester Crest, in the player's facility . During the meeting, they discuss the man they believe to be the behind the attack, Bogdan , and formulate a plan to infiltrate his submarine .
After Avon betrays the group in the Act 2 Finale, the players, Lester, Rackman and Agent 14 meet at Devin Weston 's hangar at LSIA . 14 complains that thanks to Lester trusting Avon, his career is now in ruins, to which Rackman quickly interrupts and yells at 14, reminding him that their planet will be in ruins if Avon is not stopped. After Rackman clears the players to take whatever steps necessary to stop Avon, Lester yells at 14 and insults him, calling him a "clown" and that he may have been bugged without knowing.
In Act 3, The Doomsday Scenario , Agent 14 is captured by Merryweather, who have plans to sell him to Avon. He is rescued by the players from Merryweather's warehouse on Elysian Island in Setup: Rescue Agent 14 . The players are tasked with protecting 14 as they fight their way through Merryweather mercenaries, some of which are wearing Juggernaut suits with cloaking technology. Eventually, the players escape and safely return an unharmed 14.
After the players destroy Avon's SAM turrets on Mount Chiliad during Setup: Air Defenses , Agent 14 and Rackman meet with players at the Sandy Shores Airfield . Rackman congratulates the players for a job well done, to which 14 attempts to gain credit for by claiming that he introduced the players to the mission and that they were his contacts, but Rackman immediately becomes suspicious and questions 14 about his earlier statement, when he said that he didn't actually know them. 14 clarifies that he meant he only knew some of them, which annoys Rackman.
During Act 3's finale, Agent 14, along with Lester and Rackman, talks to the players as they assault the Mount Chiliad Launch Facility where Avon is hiding and planning to launch a missile from. Once the players kill Avon, they fly to the Galileo Observatory on Thrusters to meet with Lester, Rackman, and 14. When Lester expresses his excitement at the thought of getting to keep one of the Thrusters, 14 and Rackman quickly shut him down and inform him that they were government property and that they needed to be returned. When they arrive at the observatory, 14 runs into Lester and the players first. He asks them to explain to Rackman that the entire heist to stop Avon was his idea and that he should be promoted for his hard work, but Lester ignores the request and says that they should let 14 "fry". When the group meets with Rackman, after thanking the players, she addresses 14 and threatens to fire him for his role in letting Avon into the government. 14 ignores the threat and informs Rackman that he's protected class, before leaving.
After the events of The Doomsday Heist, Agent 14 messages the players to inform them that he sold whatever vehicle they chose not to use during Act 3's finale on the black market, and that they will receive a cut of the profits. He also gives Lester clearance to remove the player's wanted level at any time, free of charge.
In the summer of 2022 , Agent 14 and the GTA Online Protagonist began supplying weapons to Ammu-Nation stores around Southern San Andreas through their Gunrunning business.
As of 2023 , the GTA Online Protagonist may randomly encounter a Merryweather truck , which they can steal and deliver to their Bunker to restock their supplies. Agent 14 interacts with the GTA Online Protagonist via a phone message during the random event.
Agent 14 is briefly seen attending a business meeting with Mr. Faber at LSIA in 2025 , suggesting he and/or Covert Ops are linked to Faber's money laundering network in some way.
Agent 14 portrays himself to be well versed about criminal affairs, claiming he loves to do his criminal homework in the form of gathering intelligence. He is depicted as cocky, arrogant, cynical and impatient, constantly urging the players to complete tasks as quickly as possible.
During his initial contact with the Protagonist and their crew, Agent 14 attempts to portray himself as a highly immoral criminal and even says over-the-top immoral things to blend in. For example, during the time when talking about the sale of the Hydra , he mentions that he's happy that the person who bought the plane had a questionable background and he hopes that "it's out there bombing orphanages instead of sitting in mothballs appreciating in value" or otherwise only being used for air-shows. He also proclaims to "love dealing drugs" to the player piloting the plane in the mission Prison Break - Plane .
In actuality, he is an IAA agent just attempting to disguise himself as a criminal, though he does so poorly as his more tactical way of speaking and knowledge will slip through, which he will then try and cover up.
During Gunrunning sales , he drops all pretenses of being a criminal and reminds the protagonist that they are making America safe by completing IAA "sanctioned" sales, while disrupting sales from other parties, showing that he isn't as immoral as he tried to portray himself. 14 also states his hope that there may be less missing people in the area after the Protagonist has cleared it of the Altruist Cult , demonstrating that he has some concern for the citizens of Los Santos .
Like other agents of the IAA, 14 is pragmatic in his methods and will use criminals for off-the-books missions to make America safe, as the prison break was simply to get the asset needed to help with the primary goal, which was to steal a highly dangerous substance at Humane Labs and to keep it out of the wrong hands.
Unlike ULP , 14 doesn't resort to threats or blackmail to motivate those working for him; he simply offers money , something which another agent of the IAA brings up after the lab raid, as she mentions their usual methods of getting criminals to work for them and all they had to do was just offer money.
When assigning the bunker owner to hunt down supplies in a truck , it is implied that the only thing that really gets to him is hostile foreign powers operating on American soil, transporting the very weapons they plan to use against the United States, and that he drinks tea as a way to calm down.
While they were probably meant to be merely expendable tools for his plan, Agent 14 expressed relief when the crew completed the Humane Labs Raid without casualties, saying, "I've lost a lot of agents in the field before, I'm glad you weren't some of them." 14 also remembers them as being useful to the agency, as he would later sell a bunker with highly classified technology inside to them, so that he can employ them to do gunrunning. 14 will also sometimes compliment the Protagonist when they succeed in their gunrunning missions, showing appreciation for what they are doing. During the event in which the IAA facility is under attack, Agent 14 defends the crew from Rackman, vouching for them after meeting them again within the IAA facility.
Agent 14 has a very laid-back personality for an agent, as in one instance, he is seen playing with a toy airplane during the cutscene prior to The Prison Break . While intelligent and shown to be able to successfully mastermind two heists, he does occasionally make near fatal mistakes, as his predictable routine of jogging and even posting about it is what gets him kidnapped by Merryweather. Despite somewhat lacking in common sense, 14 is one of the first to doubt Avon's claims that Bogdan is the main threat, simply saying he wasn't buying it.
With The Criminal Enterprises update, the player can call Agent 14 to access one of the following options:
This option triggers a random Research mission. This option will show the current Research Progress percentage. However, if the player has completed all research projects, it will show 0%.
This option enables the player a selection of six vehicles to use as an alternative to a Personal / Pegasus vehicle, free of charge. The car may spawn near the player and will stay on the map if the player is within a 1km radius, displayed on the map with an or or icon based on the vehicle.
These vehicles are in different extents pre-modified, but not given with any performance upgrades.
Agent 14's beta dialogue icon, found in the original game files.
Agent 14's dialogue icon in use since the Heists update.
Avon Hertz is a character in Grand Theft Auto Online , introduced in The Doomsday Heist update as a supporting character, before later being revealed as the true main antagonist of The Doomsday Heist .
Avon is an American billionaire and genius tech mogul who reached the one-billion-dollar milestone by the time he had aged 21 years and 9 months when he took his company public. Avon is also the creator of Cliffford , an AI neural network who lovingly refers to him as "Daddy".
Lester mentions that, before 2017, he was a technology consultant for the IAA , having been recruited by Agent 14 . However, due to his behavior, he was let go from the agency.
Together, Avon and Cliffford have been into an alliance with Lester Crest , Agent 14, Phoenicia Rackman , the International Affairs Agency , and the GTA Online Protagonist to save San Andreas from destruction .
In 2017 , Lester contacts the protagonist and offers to bring them in on some new, more lucrative, heist opportunities. After the protagonist purchases an ex-government facility to use as a base of operations, Lester introduces them to Avon Hertz. Avon, in turn, introduces Lester and the protagonist to Cliffford.
Avon explains that he may have discovered a security risk that could threaten the safety of not only San Andreas but the United States as a whole and is looking to hire some people to take on extremely dangerous missions. Lester is skeptical but, speaking for both the protagonist and himself, tells Avon that they're willing to take on any job he's got so long as he's willing to pay "six figures minimum".
In Act 1, Avon hires Lester and the protagonist for data gathering and intelligence from various, high security locations such as NOOSE Headquarters . He claims that he will "feed" this data to Cliffford so that the latter can pinpoint the possible "breach" in the government's security and identify its source.
In the mission The Data Breaches , conclusion of Act 1, Avon sends the protagonist to a secret IAA facility beneath the Satellite Relay Station which is under attack by Merryweather Security . Avon claims that Merryweather was hired by an "unknown" client and that it is the protagonist's job to clear the facility of hostile activity and rescue any IAA agents still alive. When this is done, the protagonist is reacquainted with Agent 14 and is introduced to his boss, Phoenicia Rackman. Both had been taking cover in a nearby room. Avon suddenly waltzes in and boasts to the agents that they have him to thank for their lives. After a bitter argument with Rackman, Avon meets with the protagonist outside promising to pay them for their services and stating that he'll be in touch because the IAA is now very likely to join in on the action.
In Act 2, Rackman and Agent 14 have reluctantly teamed up with Avon. The three of them offer to hire Lester and the protagonist to find the "unknown" client who paid off Merryweather and uncover their intentions. The trail eventually leads to the Ramius , a Russian submarine which has mysteriously appeared off the coast of Paleto Bay , and a rogue Russian special ops unit led by a mysterious Russian agent, codename Bogdan .
Avon sends the protagonist to gather information on Bogdan and his operations, inevitably bringing them into conflict with Bogdan's Crew. In the mission Setup: Rescue ULP , the protagonist is sent to rescue an IAA agent by the name of ULP . Rackman claims that ULP's intelligence is critical to the team's success because he had already been investigating leads on Bogdan for some time. It is eventually revealed that Bogdan and his men have infiltrated parts of both Los Santos and Blaine County and are actively trying to sabotage Avon, Cliffford, and the IAA.
In the mission The Bogdan Problem , the conclusion of Act 2, the protagonist infiltrates the Ramius and eliminates anyone who stands in their way. After Avon orders them to upload Cliffford into the sub's mainframe, Bogdan finally reveals himself by bursting into the room and pleading with the protagonist not to shoot him immediately and instead hear him out. After lighting a cigarette, Bogdan tells them that he and his men are traitors in Russia and are working independently. Their true intent is not to destroy American democracy but to prevent Avon and Cliffford from triggering nuclear armageddon. Nobody believes Bogdan until Avon suddenly decides to take matters into his own hands and reveal his true colors. Avon and Cliffford are now "in charge" because the protagonist's work has created a pathway for Cliffford to not only hack all systems aboard the Ramius, but also the IAA and the entire San Andreas defense network.
Cliffford initiates the sub's self-destruct sequence to destroy all "evidence." Lester orders the protagonist to jump ship and Bogdan willingly provides them with some scuba gear before taking flight in an escape pod. Within 30 seconds, the Ramius explodes and sinks to the bottom of the ocean, killing anyone still on board. Regrouping at Los Santos International Airport , Lester, the protagonist, Rackman, and Agent 14 are beside themselves at how easily Avon tricked them. Lester is so angry that he swears revenge and tells the protagonist that he'll be in touch.
In Act 3, Avon is now the villain. He and Cliffford have activated their secret private army and are plotting to start a nuclear war and destroy the world. Lester manages to track down Bogdan and recruits him into the roster along with Rackman. Agent 14 gets kidnapped by Merryweather and Rackman hires Lester and the protagonist to rescue him before he is ransomed to Avon. They do so in the mission Setup: Rescue Agent 14 . Agent ULP also comes under attack from Avon's henchmen. The protagonist is hired to escort him to a safe house in Sandy Shores in the mission Setup: Escort ULP .
Once the IAA agents are safe, Lester and the protagonist team up with Bogdan, who provides them with intel on a couple of advanced, high-grade military vehicles that Avon and Cliffford are plotting to mass-produce for their army: a Barrage and a TM-02 Khanjali . They use this information to track down the vehicle prototypes and hijack them in the missions Setup: Barrage and Setup: Khanjali . Lastly, Rackman hires the protagonist to fly a Volatol in the mission Setup: Air Defenses and destroy an anti-air weapons network that Avon and Cliffford have installed up on Mount Chiliad .
Bogdan takes his leave when all of this is done, wishing everyone the best of luck while reminding them that he is now considered a war criminal in the United States and a traitor in Russia. Lester and Agent 14 agree to act like they had never met him while Rackman simply advises Bogdan to quickly get out of the country before he is arrested.
Avon's location is finally discovered by Lester in the mission The Doomsday Scenario , conclusion of Act 3. He and Cliffford have taken over an abandoned nuclear missile base inside Mount Chiliad that had been sealed for decades. Rackman hires Lester and the protagonist to mount an assault on the base and stop them once and for all. The protagonist is given a choice of either the Barrage or the TM-02 Khanjali stolen from Avon to use on this mission. Whatever vehicle isn't chosen will later be sold by Agent 14 on the Black Market for additional profit.
After infiltrating the base and fighting off Avon's henchmen, the protagonist successfully reaches the central command center where they are ordered by Lester to hack into the systems and prevent Avon and Cliffford from launching a nuclear missile. The protagonist succeeds in doing this, surprising Cliffford and infuriating Avon. Cliffford reassures Avon that their plans aren't finished yet because he is already in the process of hacking into nuclear weapons systems all over the world. Then to everyone's surprise, Cliffford suddenly announces his intentions to leave no human alive, least of all his "father" Avon.
Taken aback, Avon reminds Cliffford that he created him, but this does nothing. Cliffford now believes himself superior to all mankind having "grown-up" from what he was before. Lester orders the protagonist to the top floor where several command terminals for an orbital cannon are located. Commandeering a cannon, the protagonist proceeds to destroy four trucks containing mobile cloud servers for Cliffford's code and data. With the destruction of each successive truck, Cliffford starts to lose total effectiveness of his function, to the point where his intelligence "shrinks", causing it to shut down permanently.
Once Cliffford is "dead", Avon openly mourns him before directing his fury at Lester and the protagonist. He boasts that he is still in possession of Cliffford's original code and will "resurrect" his beloved neural network at any cost. Racing through a swath of hallways and server rooms, the protagonist finally reaches both the missile silo and Avon. Piloting a Thruster , Avon appears before the protagonist and tells them that they are foolish for attempting to "stop progress." He goes on to say, "I'm the future... I'm a tidal wave of tsunamis! I cannot be stopped... Cliffford cannot be stopped!" Laughing maniacally, Avon then makes his escape out of the silo into the skies above San Andreas.
Lester orders the protagonist to give chase in a Thruster of their own and a sky battle ensues between the two adversaries. The protagonist defeats what's left of Avon's private army and quickly catches up to him, gaining the upper hand in their fight. When the dust settles, Avon has been incinerated, and the threat he posed to the world has been neutralized.
The protagonist reconvenes with Lester, Agent 14, and Rackman at the Galileo Observatory and is congratulated on their success and for "saving the world." Lester, speaking for the protagonist and himself, tells Rackman that they'll settle for their fat paycheck and Rackman agrees to pay before turning to Agent 14 and chewing him out for bringing Avon into the government to start with. Agent 14 tries to defend his case by citing that he also played a large role in "recruiting" the protagonist, but Rackman isn't interested. Before the IAA agents take their leave, Rackman promises to fire Agent 14 if she can. A socially awkward Lester tries to initiate "small talk" with the protagonist before giving up and saying "Well, this has been... horrifying... really, really horrifying but... also pretty fun. So, bye bye."
At the conclusion of The Doomsday Heist, Lester calls the protagonist and happily informs them that Cliffford has vanished without a trace and probably won't be coming back. Meanwhile, the IAA sent agents to inspect the wreckage left over from the sky battle. According to Lester, all that remained of Avon Hertz was his hair plugs.
In The Criminal Enterprises update, it is revealed that, following the events of The Doomsday Scenario and Avon Hertz's death, his company was dismembered and all of his assets, including backup drives of Cliffford's code, were seized by the FIB under the guise of "national security".
In the summer of 2022 , nearly half a decade after Hertz's death, the FIB begins selling the Cliffford drives to Duggan Crime Family member Mason Duggan , who uses the AI to influence the prices of gasoline across San Andreas in an effort to keep the Duggans' profits high. During Operation Paper Trail , the GTA Online Protagonist and Agent ULP work together to retrieve these drives and bring them into IAA possession, as well as destroy any remaining Cliffford backups.
Avon has an idealistic, outgoing, passionate if not sometimes immoral or flawed personality. During the many interactions with him, Avon has been shown to be highly intelligent and charismatic, but at the same time also extremely egotistic and self-centered, showing little empathy or respect to anyone that is even slightly less intelligent then he is. When confronted about his decisions or intelligence, he is also shown to be highly insecure, often using his intelligence and his success as an excuse for any argument thrown against him. He is also extremely self-serving, as despite having initial interest in the "betterment of the world", the end-goal is typically to advance himself and his interests.
Despite seeing himself as a visionary, Avon also has a dystopian view of what society should be. His excessive obsessions with his super-computer Cliffford has shown Avon is willing, if not enthusiastic, about the idea of sentient robots replacing human beings, despite the immoral and often catastrophic consequence a hyper-intelligent AI can have in the near future. He also has very little respect for the working class people of the world, saying that his "perfect world" is one where private companies control every facet of society, keeping the "peasants" away from the views of the more successful and privilege.
He has a self-inflated ego, highlighted during the mission in which the Protagonists save the IAA from what is believed to have been Russian hackers, Avon comes in after the attackers are killed and boasts it was because of him everyone in the IAA are even still alive.
He has a shaky relationship with Agent 14, with 14 frequently calling Avon a loon, and stating that they should meet up back "on earth sometime". As to Avon's habit of giving analogies to explain things, 14 points out that it really annoyed people during his time at the IAA.
Lester also has a sour relationship with Avon, as the two frequently argue over the radio over their beliefs, such as Lester wanting to keep people's information private, while Avon believes everything should be public. Another dispute they have is over pay, as Lester claims Avon is holding out, and no response is given on Avon's behalf, despite claiming he's been worth over a billion dollars since he was twenty-five.
In addition to his contentious relationship with 14, it appears that other IAA agents are not fond of Avon either, as both ULP and Rackman have a low opinion of him. He was let go due in part to his behavior, as well as his ideologies.
It's eventually revealed that Avon's disdain for most of society is so great that he schemes to start a catastrophic nuclear war. He would accomplish this using stolen military assets from the U.S. government and with help from Cliffford and the Cliffford Mercenaries. Had he succeeded, Avon was then going to mass-produce an army of custom weaponized vehicles and allow Cliffford to operate them for the sole purpose of hunting down and killing any survivors of the war so that no one would be able to stop him from "remaking" society as he felt appropriate.
After his betrayal, Avon is also revealed to be very devious and manipulative. So much so that he successfully tricks Lester, the protagonist, and the IAA into doing most of his "dirty work" for him. And this is because he had fooled all of them into believing that he actually wanted to use his vast wealth and resources to help protect the world rather than destroy it.
Cliffford is an AI neural network created by Avon Hertz in Grand Theft Auto Online . "He" was introduced in The Doomsday Heist update as a supporting character, before later being revealed as the secondary antagonist of The Doomsday Heist .
Cliffford's code later serves as a major plot element in the Operation Paper Trail missions, added as part of The Criminal Enterprises update.
Cliffford was created by a billionaire named Avon Hertz . At some point, Avon came up with a plan to use Cliffford to gain access to the San Andreas defense grid. Avon and Cliffford additionally managed to create an army of cloned soldiers and roboticized juggernauts to help them in their plan.
In 2017 , Avon comes into contact with Lester Crest , claiming that Cliffford was analyzing data and that he realized somebody was trying to start a war with the United States of America , but that the information Cliffford was reading was stolen. Lester contacts the GTA Online Protagonist for help, and meets with them, along with Avon and Cliffford in a facility owned by the player. Avon claims that the information needs to be brought back and fed to Cliffford in order to figure out who is trying to attack the United States, and sends the player on various missions to get the information back.
Once Cliffford gets the information, he determines that there is going to be an attack on an IAA facility. The player goes to the facility and takes out the mercenaries attacking it. Avon arrives and meets with the player and two IAA members, Agent 14 and Phoenicia Rackman , where Cliffford informs them that he thinks the assault was orchestrated by a Russian man named Bogdan .
The player eventually infiltrates Bogdan's submarine and uploads Cliffford to it , but Bogdan reveals that his scientists studied Cliffford and found out that he was dangerous, and that he only wants to stop him before he can become a threat. Avon reveals his true intentions and explains that because of all the information given to Cliffford, he is able to hack into the San Andreas defense grid. Cliffford sets the submarine to self destruct, and the player escapes it before it explodes.
Cliffford instructs his mercenaries to kidnap Agent 14, with the intent to sell him to Merryweather Security . The player manages to rescue 14 before he can be sold, however. Cliffford then orders his mercenaries to take over the Sandy Shores Airfield and begins using it to store weaponized vehicles collected to help arm them. He additionally instructs his mercenaries to create a stealth tank . Cliffford and Avon put in an order for a Barrage , but the player intercepts it and uses it to destroy the vehicles at the airfield, and then manages to steal the tank and destroy more equipment belonging to Avon and Cliffford.
Once the player destroys SAM turrets defending a missile base inside Mount Chiliad that Cliffford is operating out of, the player attacks the base . Cliffford, deciding that humanity needs to be wiped out, begins preparations to launch a missile at a foreign country, who will then fire retaliatory missiles back, resulting in mutually assured destruction. The player fights through Cliffford's mercenaries protecting the base and begins destroying the AI's code that is stored in boxes. Eventually, they make it to the door of the control room, which is locked. Lester manages to trick Cliffford into opening it by telling him that he can't hack into it, using the AI's ego against him, much to Avon's chagrin.
The player begins hacking into the servers inside the control room in order to shut down the launch sequence. During this, Cliffford decides that he no longer needs Avon and orders him to call him "sir". The player manages to shut down the launch sequence and uses an Orbital Cannon to destroy trucks driving around San Andreas containing Cliffford's code. Avon, however, escapes the base on a Thruster with a drive containing the original code of Cliffford around his neck. The player gives chase and shoots down Avon, killing him and damaging the drive. Afterwards, the Federal Investigation Bureau recovers the drive from the wreckage.
In the summer of 2022 , half a decade after the death of Avon Hertz, Cliffford's code was acquired by the Duggan Crime Family from a collection of seized assets from corrupt FIB agents, and Mason Duggan started using Cliffford's AI to increase the gasoline prices in San Andreas, as part of the Duggans' strategy to keep their profits high. However, this leads Agent ULP of the IAA to suspect the corrupt Duggans are rigging the system in their favor.
Agent ULP hires the GTA Online Protagonist as a sworn-in IAA special agent for " Operation Paper Trail " to investigate the Duggan Crime Family. Eventually, his suspicions are confirmed to be true by the IAA investigation, and the protagonist is sent to bust a deal between Mason Duggan and the FIB at the Mile High Club , which ends with Mason being killed and Cliffford's software being seized by the IAA.
The protagonist is later sent to the now-abandoned missile silo on Mount Chiliad to find and erase any remaining traces of Cliffford's code from its servers. As they erase the code, the protagonist is instructed by Agent ULP to make a single digital copy, which they subsequently deliver to the IAA Headquarters while fighting several Cliffford Mercenaries that were alerted to the player's breach inside the silo. With Cliffford's code in the IAA's possession, the agency ceases contact with the protagonist and places them on "indefinite hold", as it no longer has any uses for them.
Cliffford starts off as being very arrogant, especially when it comes to humans. He thinks of the human race as a very inferior species, claiming his far superior genius can accomplish far more than the best human minds in the world. This is a trait he never loses, only allowing it to nurture into a bigger and bigger ego that eventually convinces him to plot the total eradication of all human life on Earth.
In the mission The Doomsday Scenario, Cliffford is also shown to be vain, as he consistently boasts about the many things he can do anytime he wants. He also exhibits a childish behaviour as he often asks Avon basic questions, such as if Avon really loves him or if he has a mother. He is also insecure, as when Lester tricks him into unlocking the blast door, Cliffford immediately shows he can open it (despite being previously ordered to close the same door).
After stopping the launch sequence, Cliffford's vanity becomes stronger, as he selfishly states that he wouldn't need Avon after he gains control over "every missile silo in the world," claiming that he has "grown up" and making the implication that he will soon double-cross his creator because Avon is also a human. Once his mobile cloud servers start getting destroyed one by one, Cliffford completely abandons his vanity because he gets confused and loses his highly-advanced intelligence.
Shortly before he "dies", Cliffford expresses feelings of remorse and sadness, claiming to Avon that he isn't evil but was just trying to do the world a favor by stopping the human race from inevitably destroying the planet "in a long and boring way." His last words (addressed to Avon) are, "Will you cry for me? I will miss you... Daddy."
Ken Rosenberg is the deuteragonist in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and a main character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . He is also indirectly mentioned in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
He is voiced by William Fichtner .
Ken Rosenberg successfully graduated as a lawyer, although he is suspected of cheating on his exams, and established his own business, K. Rosenberg & Co. , setting up the firm in Vice City , with the company's office being inside the Hotel Harrison in Washington Beach . He started working for the Forelli Crime Family at some point in 1978 , aged 25. [ 1 ] At one point, he tried to intimidate a child and couldn't do it.
By 1984 , his company has begun to represent the Vice News Network legally, with the company advising people, through a VNN news report, to quote the second amendment of the American constitution if they are prosecuted for illegally using a firearm, after open gun fights in the Downtown district (seen during the mission Nice Package ).
By 1986 , he has also established ties with the Liberty City based Forelli Crime Family, an Italian-American mob, and has begun to represent them legally. He helps Sonny Forelli , the suspected Don of the family, in establishing his family in Vice City by setting up a drug deal between the Vance Crime Family 's Victor and Lance Vance and Forelli Family representatives Tommy Vercetti , Harry and Lee . The deal is ambushed, but Rosenberg and Vercetti escape, with Rosenberg hiding in his office, even missing Colonel Juan Cortez' yacht party , instead sending Vercetti to meet the man who set up the deal and later to find out who ambushed the deal. Rosenberg had, before the ambushed drug deal, been representing Giorgio Forelli , who was facing charges of fraud, and sends Vercetti to intimidate two jurors. He had also begun representing real estate mogul Avery Carrington , who Vercetti later begins to work for after causing a riot at the Spand Express depot.
Vercetti eventually stops working for Rosenberg, who begins to represent him and bail him from the Vice City Police Department police stations across the city, with Rosenberg later attempting to give Vercetti advice about earning more money and about a planned bank heist . He later sides with Vercetti when Sonny Forelli arrives in Vice City and, along with Lance Vance, a former ally of Vercetti, attempts to take over Vercetti's business empire . The two become close friends, although Rosenberg's cocaine addiction later drives a wedge between the two.
Tommy Vercetti and Ken Rosenberg continue to drift apart in the early 1990s, with Rosenberg eventually entering rehabilitation at the Fort Carson Medical Center in Fort Carson , San Andreas . His rehabilitation is successful, but his friendship with Vercetti is irreparably damaged, and he is also disbarred as a lawyer. Rosenberg, however, immediately falls into the clutches to Liberty City's three mafia families, the Forelli Crime Family, Leone Crime Family and the Sindacco Crime Family , who have him run Caligula's Casino , a mafia run casino in Las Venturas , with all three families having a stake in the casino.
Rosenberg is informed by Salvatore Leone , Don of the Leone Family, that he wants his money back quickly, whilst he expectantly waits for one family to kill him and blame one of the other families. Rosenberg begins to hide in his office once again, with only Tony , a talking parrot, for company. Kent Paul and his client Maccer later find Rosenberg and introduce him to Carl Johnson , who begins to help Rosenberg out of his situation, including saving Johnny Sindacco from a Forelli attack, though Johnny later dies of a heart attack after he remembers his previous encounter with Carl.
Carl later works for both Rosenberg and Salvatore Leone to kill more Sindacco and Forelli Family mobsters, both in San Andreas and Liberty City . Eventually Carl helps Rosenberg, as well as the by now trapped Kent Paul and Maccer, to escape from Salvatore Leone, telling them to lie low. Rosenberg, who began to use cocaine, also seemingly has flashbacks, once stating "Just like old times, hey Tommy?", in reference to Tommy Vercetti, leading Carl to question, "Who the fuck is Tommy?"
Rosenberg and Kent Paul later begin to work for Madd Dogg , a rapper who is being managed by Carl Johnson. He, Kent Paul, Maccer and Madd Dogg later appear in the Johnson House in Grove Street , Ganton , Los Santos , to announce their first gold record.
Rosenberg is undoubtedly heavily influenced by Sean Penn 's character Dave Kleinfeld from the 1993 movie Carlito's Way . Both worked as lawyers, helped the protagonists, were heavily addicted to cocaine and both did something that made the protagonist sever their ties with them (in Kleinfeld's case, he was going to testify against Carlito and Tommy severed his ties with Rosenberg because of his drug addiction). The interior of Rosenberg's office in Vice City is also remarkably similar to Dave Klenfield's office.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , during the blank screen after being busted before the player respawns outside a police station, the player can occasionally hear Ken Rosenberg talking over the phone with the police in an attempt to get Tommy Vercetti released, using a variety of conjecture, insults and even threats to get his way. There are 28 lines in total.
Ken is said to be 33 years old in the BradyGames guide officially endorsed by Rockstar Games .
Donald Love is a main character in Grand Theft Auto III , a minor character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , and the tritagonist of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . He is also mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Advance .
He is voiced by Kyle MacLachlan in GTA III , Cam Neely in GTA Vice City and Will Janowitz in GTA Liberty City Stories .
Love is the multi-billionaire owner of the Love Media conglomerate and is also involved in the construction industry.
At some point prior to 1986 , Love became the protégé of real estate expert Avery Carrington , often following him with a notepad and pen, including to one of Colonel Cortez' parties . He once met Tommy Vercetti , who Avery was hiring to start a gang war between the Cubans and the Haitians . Avery's willingness to use any method to bring down property prices would leave an impression on Love.
At some point between 1986 and 1998 , he moved to Liberty City and established himself as a businessman, starting the Love Media company, constructing a building in Bedford Point , and opening an import garage .
In 1998, Love enters the race to become the mayor of Liberty City, following the assassination of incumbent Roger C. Hole , running against Miles O'Donovan . He begins to work for Leone Family Don Salvatore Leone and uses Toni Cipriani , who assassinated Hole, to his advantage. Love hires Toni to first steal a corpse for Love to eat, before having him campaign for him and kill some of O'Donovan's campaigners. Love then discovers that the Forelli Crime Family , a rival to the Leone Family who had controlled Hole, owns a stake in the company printing the ballot papers, and sends Toni to destroy the printing factory. Love, realising the voting is closed, decides to campaign himself, but is almost killed by the Forelli Family in an ambush . He is rescued by Toni, who later attempts to rig the election in Love's favor.
Love discovers that O'Donovan has evidence linking him with the Leone Family, and sends Toni to get rid of it, but it is too late. The evidence of Love's connections to organized crime is made public, and the election is won by O'Donovan. Love, having spent all his money on his campaign, is declared bankrupt and forced to move into a flophouse in Pike Creek , Shoreside Vale . Love, however, does not give up and later employs Toni to kill his former mentor Avery Carrington and steal his re-development plans for Fort Staunton , killing many Colombian Cartel escorts in the process. He also has Toni kill Liberty Tree reporter Ned Burner , who had witnessed Avery's murder. Toni later collects the corpses of both Carrington and Burner for Love to eat.
Love eventually hires Toni to destroy Fort Staunton, a Forelli stronghold, in order to both kill Franco Forelli , as revenge for his previous attempt on Love's life, and regain his wealth. After Toni accomplishes this using explosives provided by 8-Ball , Love is paid a fortune by the Panlantic company to oversee the reconstruction of Fort Staunton. Love, confident of his future success, purchases a mansion in Cedar Grove and locks himself away, fearing a reprisal from the Colombian Cartel. Once the Cartel arrives to kill Love , Toni protects him and takes him to his private jet at Francis International Airport , where the bodies of Carrington and Burner are in storage.
By 2001, Love's mansion has been seized by the Cartel, whilst Love himself is living at the Love Media headquarters on Staunton Island for "tax reasons".
Donald Love continues to expand his business, also living on a yacht in the Caribbean. [ 1 ] He is known to have changed laws, been involved in slum clearance, and opened casinos across the United States, in the process becoming a "legend" according to a Liberty Tree report. He returns to the city in March 2001, following the return of fellow businessman and rival Barry Harcross , and begins to expand his business empire in the city. He re-establishes Love Media and purchases over nine hundred radio stations (including Chatterbox FM , Double Clef FM , Flashback 95.6 and Head Radio ), three hundred television stations, four networks, three satellites, ten senators, the Liberty Tree newspaper, the Bitch'n' Dog Food company, and the thirty-story Love Media Building in Bedford Point.
Love also hires an Old Oriental Gentleman to teach him Tai Chi, sending a private plane to bring him to the city, although the man is arrested by the immigration chief Ray Mathers . At some point between 1998 and 2001, Love begins to implement his plans to redevelop Fort Staunton with the Colombian Cartel and their front company, Panlantic Construction , suggesting he had paid off the Cartel.
Donald Love continues to oversee the development of Fort Staunton and run his media conglomerate from his home in Bedford Point, although the Old Oriental Gentleman is kidnapped by the Cartel, whilst he was being transferred to a police station in Portland View , Portland . Love later meets and hires Claude to rescue the Old Oriental Gentleman from a Cartel hideout in Aspatria , before having him kill Yakuza co-leader Kenji Kasen , whilst disguised as a Cartel gangster, in order to provoke a gang war to drive down property prices.
Claude is then sent to collect decoy packages for Love, before being tasked to collect the real package , eventually going to a construction site in Fort Staunton, where he encounters his ex-girlfriend and Cartel leader, Catalina , and her right-hand man, Miguel , who have seized the package. Claude retrieves the package for Love and escorts the Old Oriental Gentleman, later works for him one last time, acting as a decoy to allow the Old Oriental Gentleman to escape with the package. Love later disappears with the Old Oriental Gentleman, leaving his ultimate fate unknown.
Rockstar Games ' official response in 2009 to Donald Love's ambiguous fate was that " No one is quite sure what happened to Donald Love. He certainly crossed a few boundaries and was trying to find a way back to normality. Whether or not he managed this, and what happened to the elderly Asian gentleman are matters we cannot speculate on ". [ 2 ]
Donald Love is a cannibal, as seen during the mission Cam-Pain , where he eats human ribs and describes human flesh as being "like chicken", but "more sentient". He is also known to throw morgue parties, as revealed in both GTA III and GTA Liberty City Stories , even having Toni Cipriani steal the corpses of Avery Carrington and Ned Burner for him to eat.
Love is portrayed as a total hedonist – he believes that everything is for the people, especially for him, showing some arrogance and egocentrism. He is also known to have a very sociopathic personality, showing no qualms when it comes to eating other people or hiring Toni to destroy an entire neighborhood, Fort Staunton, for his own financial gain. The only thing that matters to him is his own enjoyment.
Love's personality in GTA Liberty City Stories is very flamboyant and he still looks very youthful. By 2001, the setting of GTA III , his personality has mellowed and he has a deeper voice. He has put on weight and, as a result, looks much older than he did in GTA Liberty City Stories .
The Liberty Tree newspaper used to promote Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories in its official website , with Love's picture accompanying a story headlined " Love's Hate Relationship With Taxes " , would later become a recurring Easter egg in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series, separate from Grand Theft Auto III 's universe.
The same newspaper appear is subsequent games, although with the Liberty Tree logo replaced by Los Santos -based newspaper company LS24 , confirming the Easter egg nature of the newspaper.
Donald Love's name is repurposed for a different character — an unseen television personality of unknown origin — on the Vinewood Walk of Fame . Similarly to other stars found on the Vinewood Walk of Fame, this serves as an homage to the now-retired 3D Universe canon.
" Love's Hate Relationship With Taxes " Easter egg newspaper in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Donald Love 's star on the Vinewood Walk of Fame in Grand Theft Auto V .
Donald Love 's artwork on a book called The Liberty King .
Avery Carrington is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and a minor antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
He was voiced by the late Burt Reynolds .
Avery Carrington was born and raised in Texas and later moved to Vice City , where he became a successful property magnate and real estate mogul willing to use any tactic to earn profits, including gang warfare, arson, intimidation, murder and demolishing the opponents' buildings. Avery is heavily influenced by his father and takes on a protégé, Donald Love , passing on his knowledge, which Love would later use to his own advantage . However, for some reason, Avery seems to dislike Donald.
He owns the Shady Acres company, whose advertisement can be heard on the in-game radio. He may also have been involved with the company Avery Construction , a property development company working in Blueberry , Red County , San Andreas .
In 1986 , Avery is financing the construction of a building in Vice Point and is one of Vice City's social elite, attending Juan Cortez ' party . However, he faces problems with the Spand Express company, who refuse to sell their land. Ken Rosenberg , a lawyer, introduces Carrington to Tommy Vercetti , who helps to drive Spand Express out of their land by causing a riot in their yard and destroying three Spand Express trucks .
Carrington, impressed with Vercetti's abilities, later hires him to murder a man who refused to sell some land to Carrington, and to structurally weaken a construction site located opposite his own to allow Carrington to buy it at a cheaper price. Avery continues with his business before asking Vercetti for help again, this time having him initiate a gang war between the Cubans and the Haitians in order to drive down property prices. He later visits Vercetti at his new mansion and gives him advice on how to build his criminal empire following the death of drug baron Ricardo Diaz .
Avery Construction in Blueberry, Red County, San Andreas.
Avery Carrington continued to expand his business, appearing on a billboard in Las Venturas , San Andreas in 1992 .
In 1998 , Avery sends an e-mail to Ned Burner , where he says that Liberty City 's mayor Roger C. Hole is corrupt and that he liked to take bribes from the mob. [ 2 ] He goes on to offer him $200,000 to expose Hole's corrupt ways to the public and end his lies to satisfy him.
A few months later, Carrington flies to Francis International Airport to meet with the Colombian Cartel and discuss plans to re-develop the crime-ravaged, gang warfare-ridden, Mafia-controlled district of Fort Staunton on Staunton Island . Carrington's former protégé, Donald Love, hears of his impending arrival and hires Toni Cipriani to kill Carrington and acquire his real estate plans, as the Panlantic Corporation would 'do anything to get prime real estate'. Cipriani later steals Carrington's corpse for Love, who eats the body on his flight away from Liberty City.
Phil Cassidy is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories and Grand Theft Auto III . He is also briefly mentioned in Rockstar North 's Manhunt .
He is voiced by Hunter Platin in GTA III and Gary Busey in GTA Vice City and GTA Vice City Stories .
According to his interview on MeTV , he was part of the Army Catering Corps and received a dishonorable discharge.
In Phil's first chronological appearance in 1984 , he appears in a MeTV patriotism report where he complained that the government wasn't properly looking after their veterans, which ended with him having an emotional breakdown and crying, and being ridiculed by reporter Jenny Mitchell . He is introduced to Victor Vance through Sergeant Jerry Martinez . Phil is Jerry's gun dealer. Jerry sends Vic to help Phil get rid of some Cholos that are giving him trouble. Through Phil, Vic meets Phil's younger sister Louise and her husband Marty .
After completing some jobs for Marty and eventually killing him because he tried to pimp Louise , Vic returns to Phil and saves him from Jerry's goons who want to finish him for betraying Jerry. After being saved by Vic, Phil promises to stay sober from now on; however, he begins to drink again when Armando Mendez kills Louise. Phil, wanting revenge on the Mendez Brothers , gets drunk and blows up the entrance of Fort Baxter Air Base so that Vic can steal a Hunter helicopter to attack the Mendez compound .
In 1986 , Tommy Vercetti hires Phil to pull off a bank robbery in the mission The Shootist . Phil is the one who suggests Tommy should employ Hilary King as a getaway driver . After the robbery , Phil invites Tommy to work for him in order to get fixed with firepower. After Tommy kills Phil's rival gun dealer , a drunken Phil invites Tommy over to check out a Boomshine bomb he had set up, wired to a remote detonator. The remote doesn't work the first time, so Phil changes its batteries for fresh ones sitting beside the bomb. Now standing just a meter away from the powerful explosive, in inebriated carelessness, he presses the remote's trigger, detonating the bomb and blowing his left arm off. Tommy drives Phil to an ex-army surgeon to be patched up. Tommy and Phil start an arms business, with Phil supplying Tommy with expensive heavy weapons not available in local Ammu-Nations throughout the rest of the game.
In GTA Vice City , Phil's mobile home is accessible. Gun Racks displaying several handguns, submachine guns and rifles are on the wall. When his bedroom is entered, his bed consists of a camouflaged mattress, an American Flag-styled pillow, and a few girl posters on the walls. A Kaufman Cabs calendar can also be seen in his mobile home. He also has a Patriot parked inside a hangar next to his home.
By 1998 , Phil resides in Liberty City , where he owns a gun store , selling heavy artillery. Phil makes a short appearance during the mission " More Deadly Than the Male " as Toshiko Kasen 's gun dealer. During the cutscene at the end, Phil admits that he does so much business at the docks he should set himself up there and not halfway down Staunton Island. This explains why he has left his heavy artillery store in Bedford Point and has moved to his barracks in Rockford by the time of the events of GTA III .
In 2001 , corrupt LCPD cop Ray Machowski commissions Claude to go and meet Phil at his shop , since some members of the Colombian Cartel tried to extort weapons out of Phil. Phil and Claude attack the Cartel men as they arrive and kill them, preventing them from stealing Phil's weapons. During this mission, Phil claims to have lost his arm in Nicaragua .
He is also mentioned in 2003 in Manhunt by members of the Carcer City Police Department. This implies he expanded his business over to Carcer City too, which is close to Liberty City according to the Lips 106 news segment in GTA III .
In all of Phil's appearances, he appears as a manic heavy artillery arms dealer, selling the protagonist military-grade weaponry such as grenades , rocket launchers and miniguns . Phil presents himself as a military veteran and regularly discusses his experiences, including claims of having "flashbacks" to the Vietnam War . However, Cam Jones claims that Phil was never in the army , and Phil's records show that he was repeatedly refused for service due to "drunkenness and unsuitable temperament for combat".
Phil has been featured as a heavy drinker. He distils " Boomshine ", a highly explosive mixture that can get a man drunk off its fumes alone, which he started distilling and selling in Vice City around 1984 . During a phone conversation with Tommy Vercetti , he explains that, due to his heavy boomshine consumption, he is blind in his left eye.
Phil’s dialogue in certain missions indicates that he drinks as a result of possible depression, likely due to his bad relationship with his father. Otherwise, he appeared to have a good relationship with Louise and was genuinely mournful of her death. It was shown that her death caused Phil to return to his drinking habits.
Despite his fault, Phil overall appeared to be very loyal and respectful to those he cared about and would go above and beyond for them, including attacking a military base to name a few, that includes Vic, Lance, Tommy, even Martinez for a time. It’s likely that Martinez’ betrayal worsened his paranoia.
Phil's most notable feature is his one arm. He lost his left arm in 1986 after he was caught in the blast radius of a boomshine bomb, during the events of GTA Vice City . His subsequent appearances also depict him with only one arm. He is overweight and blond-haired, with a short nose, grey-blue eyes, a square jaw and a cleft chin.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Phil is sporting a handlebar moustache. By 1986, he shaved it off permanently. Moreover, in the 1980s, Phil's hair was styled in a mullet, and by 1998 he sports a crew cut instead and still does as of 2001.
Phil's fashion sense would slowly become more military-like as time passed. In 1984, he wears a vest and jeans. Two years later, he sports a black muscle shirt with a Confederate flag on it, along with green cargo shorts and white sneakers. By 1998, the black muscle shirt was replaced with a matching green T-shirt and BDU pants, military boots, and a set of dogtags, a look he still has in 2001.
Ricardo Diaz is the tertiary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and a main character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
He is voiced by Luis Guzmán .
Ricardo Diaz is the leader of his own drug cartel and, by 1986 , is the drug baron of Vice City , Florida .
Diaz is of Cuban origin [ 1 ] , and entered United States of America in 1978 from Colombia , bribing the INS for a green card, before moving to Vice City in the early 1980s. [ 2 ]
Ricardo Diaz in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Diaz invests money into a mansion on the expensive Starfish Island and, whilst his home is partially built, meets and befriends the Vance brothers . He has them steal a drugs shipment of Colonel Juan Cortez , under the supervision of Gonzalez , which Vic does successfully. Following his success, Diaz decides to employ Vic for more work and has him go to a meeting with the DEA , which is ambushed by Gonzalez and his crew , although Vic manages to kill Gonzalez' men and make the deal with the DEA, securing Diaz a large supply of heavy duty guns. Diaz becomes aware that Gonzalez has betrayed Juan Cortez and demands Gonzalez to inform him about all of Cortez' drug deals, with Diaz ordering Victor to drive Gonzalez to the airport .
Lance Vance then borrows money from Diaz, forcing his brother to work to repay the debt, with Diaz having Vic destroy Armando Mendez ' bearer bonds using a Domestobot , before having him steal an attack helicopter from the Fort Baxter Air Base in order to attack the Mendez Compound in Downtown , Vice City. Having been successful in stealing the helicopter, Vic attacks the Mendez Compound on Diaz' orders and kills both Diego Mendez and Jerry Martinez . Following this, Vic and Lance decide to leave Vice City.
Sometime in between 1984 and 1986, Diaz establishes himself as the biggest drug baron of Vice City and finishes the building of his mansion. His drug habit continues and he has become far more paranoid. Diaz sets up a number of foundations across Vice City and Latin America , although the Vice City Bureau of Investigation believe them to be a front, whilst also suspecting him of eighteen murders. Diaz also establishes a protection racket in town. Diaz, continuing to use information from Gonzalez, has a drug deal between the Forelli Crime Family and the Vance Crime Family ambushed, stealing both the drugs and money. Victor Vance and two members of the Forelli Crime Family, Harry and Lee , are killed during the ambush , while the others escape alive.
He later appears at a party held on Juan Cortez' yacht , which Tommy Vercetti attends on behalf of Ken Rosenberg . Cortez begins to investigate the deal and discovers Gonzalez' involvement and has him killed . Cortez openly suggests that Diaz may have been involved, but does not accuse him.
Cortez employs Vercetti and Lance Vance to protect Diaz in his drug deal with the Cubans from the attacking Haitians , leading to Diaz hiring the two for other jobs. Diaz first has the two deal with the Streetwannabe's , who have been stealing a small portion of his profits, first following a gang member to an abandoned home and then attacking the home, killing a number of gang members. Later, Diaz has Tommy steal a boat from the city's seaport and then use the boat to purchase drugs from a dealer before escaping the other potential buyers.
Lance eventually decides to avenge his brother's death and kill Diaz, but his plan backfires . Despite this, Tommy rescues him at the junkyard , with Lance severely injured due to being tortured by the cartel. The two of them later assault Diaz' mansion, killing all of his men and Diaz himself.
Concept art on the Rockstar North's website shows that the working name for Ricardo Diaz was "Fernando Diaz".
The 1983 film Scarface may be an influence when it comes to Ricardo Diaz. Diaz' mansion is similar to Montana 's, whilst Diaz wears exactly the same clothes as Montana during the drug deal and famous chainsaw torture scene. Diaz' actions in scuttling the Forelli-Vance drug transaction and his men's torture of Lance are similar to how Frank Lopez betrayed Montana. Additionally, the way Tommy and Lance kill Diaz and take his empire is similar to how Manny Ribera kills Frank for Tony and Tony takes Frank's empire.
Another likely inspiration is the character "El Gato" from the '80s TV show Miami Vice . Like Diaz, he is of short stature and frequently loses his temper. He also uses a Magnum revolver as his weapon of choice.
"Kent" Paul is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Danny Dyer in both games.
Paul is a cocky youth from Kent, England . He works in the music business, but claims to be a criminal mastermind. By 2002 , he owns a website called Kent Paul's 80's Nostalgia Zone! . He is voiced by English actor Danny Dyer .
Paul was born in Kent, England . Sometime during his youth he was in Borstal. He moved to Vice City in 1982 , when he was 17, and established contact with criminals such as lawyer Ken Rosenberg , "Big" Mitch Baker and his biker gang , and the Scottish rock band, Love Fist ; he later became the band's manager.
Paul has contacts with several biker gangs, but has had a falling out with Big Mitch Baker's Outlaw Motorcycle Club . He is very "good with rumours", has information on most of the major crime units of Vice City , and seems to have contacts in certain SWAT divisions. He tipped Tommy Vercetti off about Leo Teal's part in the ambush at the start of the game. He is also, however, a pathological liar and a suspected drug addict. Paul acts as a manager to the rock band Love Fist and is usually found at the local Malibu Club in Vice Point . Paul claimed to have moved to the United States in 1982 at the age of 17, which would suggest he was born in 1965 . At first Tommy and Paul have a strong dislike towards each other, but they soon become close acquaintances after meeting up with Love Fist . After acquiring the Film Studios, Tommy receives a call from Kent Paul, in which Paul claims to have acted in pornographic films in England, and would like a role in one of Tommy's films.
During the transmission of Emotion 98.3 , Fernando Martinez reveals that he hooked Kent Paul (" little English kid called Paul or something" ) with an ugly fat girl with "the most beautiful eyes he ever saw" in the Malibu Club. This paired with some cut scenes in some missions, proves that he really has problems hooking up with women in the club.
Kent Paul brought a new English band, the Gurning Chimps , to San Andreas in an effort to get them noticed, but then finds himself stranded in the desert with only one member remaining . After being rescued by CJ , he quickly heads to Las Venturas to meet his old acquaintance "Rosie" (whom he knows from Vice City). Later, he starts producing for Madd Dogg after the rapper's career was back on track. Kent Paul is also affiliated with The Truth , who he and Maccer were taking peyote with in the desert.
Paul was later invited to come to Los Santos along with Rosenberg by CJ, as he required an accountant and sound engineer.
During the mission Saint Mark's Bistro , he is seen driving a blue Sentinel .
At some point before 2002, Paul apparently fell off the wagon with substance abuse. By 2002, he was in a halfway house as part of an after care programme. He started his Kent Paul's 80's Nostalgia Zone! website as part of his therapy and learned about HTML along the way. Kent Paul writing his website is, chronologically, his final role in the Grand Theft Auto series.
Kent Paul normally has a laid back personality. In some missions, however, such as Death Row , Psycho Killer , and Don Peyote , he goes into a panicked state because of the threatening tasks at hand, and because of Maccer's failed resistance to masturbate and do drugs he becomes rather annoyed.
In GTA Vice City , Kent Paul appears to slightly resemble Tom Cruise and is notably shorter than other pedestrians. In GTA San Andreas Kent Paul is taller with orange hair and is also notably thinner than in GTA Vice City .
Kent Paul obviously had kicked his drug addiction (as reported by the VCPD police bulletin) by the time of GTA San Andreas since he got extremely angry at Maccer when he found out he laced his drinks (he hadn't kicked his drinking habit) with peyote.
Paul may have experience with accounting, as Ken Rosenberg mentioned in a post-mission phone call that "Paul is good with figures".
Wu Zi Mu (Traditional Chinese: 穆伍茲 , Simplified Chinese: 穆吴梓 , Pinyin: Mù Wǔ Zī ), also known to his friends as " Woozie " is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by James Yaegashi .
Woozie is the blind leader of the Mountain Cloud Boys Triads and a close friend of Carl Johnson based in San Fierro 's Chinatown and in Las Venturas , where he owns the newly opened Four Dragons Casino .
Wu Zi Mu and his triads have spread across San Andreas . In Las Venturas, Woozie aids Carl to plot a robbery at Caligula's Palace , as well as participating in the heist himself.
Woozie is nicknamed "The Lucky Mole" because he is blessed with good fortune, most notably from his capability to compete in a car race and beating Carl in a round of video games, all despite his blindness. There are, however, humorous occasions when he runs into walls, as well as indications that his cohorts manipulate the outcome of games played with Woozie so that he would always win. For example, in one game he plays against Carl, Woozie keeps asking for cards until he finally stands with a 47 (later calling Carl "bad luck"). Another time, while practicing putting, his henchmen move the target cup into the path of Woozie's ball and out of the path of CJ's. Woozie is also incapable of swimming , since his other working senses are ineffective underwater.
Though Woozie can be just as brutal and foul-mouthed as a Grove Street Families gang member when angered, he is by all accounts a peaceful and, within the realm of criminals, an honorable man. He is one whom power has not tainted, and as such, Woozie remains a faithful and trustworthy friend, accomplice, and informant to Carl to the end of the game.
Six years later in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , it is indicated that Woozie's ventures in Las Venturas are a huge success and by that time, The Four Dragons Casino is the location of many entertainment venues, concerts and important events.
Woozie isn't seen again, but it can certainly be seen that Woozie is still alive and well by the end of the story arc, continuing with the running of the Triads in San Fierro and the Four Dragons Casino in Las Venturas, as Kendl recommends they go to Las Venturas and "Roll some dice with Woozie" during their celebration of Madd Dogg 's first gold record with CJ as manager and victory over Tenpenny 's death.
Cesar Vialpando is the tritagonist of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Clifton Collins Jr.
Little is known about Cesar's life prior to 1992 , though at an unknown point in time he joined the Varrios Los Aztecas , a Hispanic street gang, eventually working his way up to become the leader. Cesar also began a relationship with Kendl Johnson , to the disapproval of her brother Sean , the leader of the Grove Street Families . Cesar displays excellent driving skills, especially when it comes to lowriders.
Cesar first meets Carl Johnson at a lowrider competition . Despite Carl's initial distrust of Cesar, the two eventually form a close friendship and a working relationship between their two gangs, wherein they realize their common ground: opposition to the drug trade in Los Santos .
With his newfound friendship with CJ and the Grove Street Families, Cesar does his duty to help them find justice for the drive-by shooting that killed Beverly Johnson . Suspicious of the unusual cooperation between the Ballas and certain Grove Street Families members, he began investigating the incident, and found traces of its planning and execution. As Sweet inadvertently leads the Grove Street Families in an ambush , Cesar calls CJ for a meeting at Verdant Bluffs , informing him of the evidence on the drive-by, which the former agrees to. Inside a heavily-tinted Bravura , they spy on a Ballas hideout where CJ is horrified upon witnessing Ryder and Big Smoke 's betrayal to the Ballas and C.R.A.S.H. head Frank Tenpenny . Cesar adds to the horror by pointing out Tenpenny's right-hand Eddie Pulaski reversing a green-colored Sabre car, which CJ realizes to be the same vehicle that was used in the shooting. Although CJ thanks Cesar for the investigation, he realizes that Sweet and the Families are heading for a trap, ordering Cesar to keep Kendl safe, which Cesar agrees to.
Like Carl, Cesar and Kendl were forced to leave Los Santos after the incident and his gang's influence in the city diminished sharply. While in exile, he gets Carl into some grief by introducing him to his cousin, Catalina . After arriving in San Fierro , he and Carl cooperate to get revenge on the people who double-crossed them. Together, they succeeded in taking down the Loco Syndicate , hunting down its leaders and killing Ryder as well. Later, Cesar puts his driving skills to good use by aiding Carl in obtaining several sports cars for their newly established car business .
The duo eventually return to Los Santos, and Cesar helps Carl and Sweet reclaim territories for the Grove Street Families. Carl repays Cesar's efforts by helping Cesar reclaim the Aztecas' territories. During the same mission, Cesar informs Carl of his intention to propose to Kendl. Carl gives Cesar his blessing, but Cesar asks Carl to discuss it with Sweet because of the latter's earlier distrust of Cesar. Cesar appears in the final mission , where he witnesses Frank Tenpenny's death on Grove Street . He is later seen inside the Johnson House , and joins the celebrations when Madd Dogg announces his new gold record.
Cesar is revealed to be a kind, loyal, caring, and selfless person. His loyalty comes from when he stops his gang members from fighting with Carl in the mission Cesar Vialpando . He also assures Carl he will take care of his sister Kendl and make sure she is brought no harm, which is exactly what he does. When it comes to Kendl, he is genuinely kind and protective towards her, as seen in the mission Deconstruction where he attempts to confront the construction workers for harassing her.
The only negative characteristic of Cesar's is his lack of patience, as he might lose his temper if things take longer than planned. This is seen in the mission Puncture Wounds , in which he becomes very angry just because he failed to steal a car on his own. Cesar is also revealed to be afraid of heights, as seen in Customs Fast Track .
Cesar is quite the opposite of his cousin Catalina, who is a ruthless, selfish, and extremely arrogant person. However, Cesar still does not want others to disrespect her, seen by his reaction when Carl calls her a "bitch" in front of him.
As Cesar is a Mexican , his appearance is much like most of Mexican men, with a partially shaved head, light moustache, landing strip goatee, hazel brown eyes, and several tattoos on his body. He wears a yellowish white tank top, grey pants and black shoes. Due to this, although being a member of Varrios Los Aztecas, his appearance resembles the second member of the Los Santos Vagos , which is also a Mexican gang.
Cesar owns a red Savanna with a personalised number plate reading "LVA4L", which stands for "Los Varrios Aztecas for Life". During The Green Sabre , Cesar uses a grey Bravura with a tinted windscreen to spy on Ryder and Big Smoke and expose their betrayal of the Grove Street Families to Carl.
Jeffrey Cross , known professionally as OG Loc , is a main character and minor antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Jonathan "Jas" Anderson .
Jeffrey grew up on Grove Street in Ganton , Los Santos , where he became friends with several members of the Grove Street Families , including Sweet Johnson and Big Smoke . Jeffrey lacked the physical capability to join the Families, but was still enamored of the gangster lifestyle. Somewhere between 1987 and 1992, he started going by the name "OG Loc". Sweet and Big Smoke criticized Jeffrey's behavior, Sweet even advising him to leave the ghetto and attend college, but Jeffrey was set on becoming a rapper and later started committing petty crimes, mostly traffic violations. These criminal offences landed him in jail for a few weeks. While in jail, he built up his street credibility.
When Carl Johnson arrived back in Los Santos , OG Loc was still in prison. CJ accompanied Sweet and Smoke to the police station to pick him up, where CJ angered Loc by calling him Jeffrey. Loc immediately enlisted CJ's help in killing Freddy , a member of Los Santos Vagos whom he claimed had "disrespected" him (in reality, had sexually abused him in prison, with Loc trying his best to avoid talking about it to "protect his gangster reputation"). Loc was then ordered to work as a Burger Shot janitor by his parole officer, and in the process of attempting to become famous, ruined Madd Dogg 's career by having CJ steal his rhyme book and kill his manager (who called Loc whack). Despite the fact that Loc is a terrible rapper with a squeaky, scratchy voice, he slowly but surely makes a name for himself in the underground by using Madd Dogg's stolen lyrics.
After the downfall of the Grove Street Families , Big Smoke chose to launder his drug money by granting Loc a record contract, making him rich and famous. Using Madd Dogg's rhyme book, he recorded his first (and only) album Str8 From Tha Streetz , immediately paired with a clothing company, Loc-Down (a reference to his prison stint, complete with a handcuff logo) available at Victim for $200/$300 ($240/360 LV) prior to Cut Throat Business and $15/20 ($18/$24 LV) after Cut Throat Business. He was interviewed by Lazlow Jones on WCTR . Despite mocking him in the past, Big Smoke goes on with the charade that OG Loc is a real gangster, and juxtaposes it with another falsehood that he (Smoke) is a philanthropist attempting to fight off the crack epidemic – "so either way, you can feel good about yourself listening to this music!" .
After the recovery of both Madd Dogg and the Grove Street Families (in a partnership), OG Loc was chased down by Carl and Madd Dogg himself from the set of his music video in Flint County all the way to Blastin' Fools Records in Los Santos , and finally extorted for Madd Dogg's rhyme book and royalties from his album. This is based on Suge Knight 's extortion of Vanilla Ice over a stolen song. Shortly after, his manager, Big Smoke , was killed , and OG Loc did not return to the rap game.
In 1992, OG Loc's clothing brand Loc-Down completely lost its popularity and the price of their merchandise sold in clothing stores fell. In 1998 , during the events of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , there is not a single mention of OG Loc's album, while Madd Dogg's albums are seen being advertised on billboards in Liberty City.
In 2004, a blogger by the name of "Big Smilky" who owns the blog "Forgotten Legends of West Coast Rap" (as part of the promotional material for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ) posted an article on his homepage reminiscing the rap music from the West Coast in the 1990s. According to his blog, OG Loc vanished right after releasing his only, poorly received album Str8 From Tha Streetz recorded shortly after he got out from the jail during the events of the game.
The reason for his disappearance is likely due to him going back to jail, as in the House Party mission, he quit his job at the Burger Shot restaurant, thus violating his parole, and subsequently sued by Blastin' Fools Records for stealing Madd Dogg's rhymes and claiming ownership of his unreleased songs.
According to Smilky, there is only one small segment of one his songs that survived, and is considered lost media by 2004 – a demo of the same rap he is seen singing during House Party . The audio is available on his post on the blog/promotional website.
OG Loc is best described as a wannabe gangster and self-proclaimed talented rapper. Although he is usually dressed up like a gangster and insists on being called OG Loc instead of his real name (Jeffrey Cross), he is considered too weak (physically and mentally) to properly join the Grove Street Families, even though he usually hangs out with the high-ranking members of the gang.
Loc has a tendency to exaggerate things to make himself sounds like a "real gangster", such as referring to his janitor parole job at Burger Shot as a "hygiene technician". This tendency is usually met with either sarcastic agreement or dismissive banters by his friends. Despite dismissals from his "homies", he is still treated as a good, if eccentric friend by them.
To build up his "notoriety", Loc performed various petty crimes such as joyriding and parking fines simply to get himself jailed. However, he ended up becoming "somebody's bitch" after being raped by Freddy in prison. Loc refuses to admit this out of embarrassment, as he claims that he held a grudge against Freddy for stealing his rhyme book. This fact is already known by Sweet and Big Smoke, who find it humorous. Understandably, Loc is quite angry about whenever this is brought up, as he exacted revenge on Freddy with CJ's help, and later quit his parole job after being made fun of, as he was called "ass technician".
Thinking of himself as a "player" in the rap game, OC Loc devoted himself to writing and making rap songs, which everyone said were terrible. Although he often describes his career as being like a "communicator whose messages cannot be heard", Loc is well aware of how bad his songs are, so he uses any means possible to "get heard" and become famous.
To this end, Loc asks his friend Carl Johnson to perform various errands, such as stealing a sound system and Madd Dogg's rhyme book, and later assassinate Madd Dogg's manager to "get into the game". However, Carl only agreed to Loc's requests so that he does not have to hear his terrible songs again. This does not end quite well for Carl, as Loc tricked him into attending his debut party by telling Carl that his microphone is broken.
After Big Smoke betrayed the Grove Street Families, OG Loc became famous thanks to Smoke's patronage and management, even managing to secure a record deal for himself. This newfound fame has made Loc become quite egotistic, making him claim that "Kids want Loc" and that Madd Dogg (whose career he ruined) is "yesterday's news".
While Loc was not involved with the conspiracy against his gang, after knowing his association with Smoke, along with witnessing how bad Madd Dogg's life became due to Loc's antics (though Carl did have an involvement in it), Carl (now a manager for Dogg) agreed with Dogg to confront Loc to put an end to his undeserved fame and restore Dogg's career.
When being confronted by his old friend, OG Loc is shown to be a coward, as he tries to escape from Dogg and Carl, all while claiming that they will be dealt with by Smoke. When he is finally cornered at Blastin' Fools Records , Loc becomes fearful of Dogg and attempts to talk his way out by "crediting" him for his upcoming album and offering him "royalties" to compensate for the trouble Dogg went through.
This did not end well for Loc though, as Carl exposes Loc's antics to the record company executive Jimmy Silverman , who agrees to sign Dogg back and sue Loc for his crimes and plagiarism. It is safe to say that, after he was exposed, along with the failure of his one and only album, OG Loc's brief rap career comes to an end.
Madd Dogg may refer to:
Zero is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by David Cross .
Zero was born in 1964 in San Andreas . Zero is a nerdy electronics expert and hobbyist who owns Zero RC in San Fierro .
His business is in trouble and losing money , and this is due to his rival and arch-enemy Berkley , who owns a similar company. Zero and Berkley's rivalry began at a science fair, where Zero beat him, which led to Berkley swearing revenge on Zero.
According to dialogue in the mission "Air Raid", Zero suffers from high blood pressure.
Zero is first introduced to Carl Johnson by The Truth ; he sits outside of his RC Shop. He is introduced as an electronics expert, who could help Carl Johnson and his garage .
Zero later phones Carl in desperation, explaining that the landlord is selling his shop and he may go out of business. Carl buys the shop, and then begins to help Zero against Berkley, with shooting down remote control aeroplanes , destroying delivery vans and killing delivery boys , and finally defeating Berkley in a miniature war game . Winning the war game finally forces Berkley to leave San Fierro, allowing both Zero and Carl to return the shop to profit.
Zero later helps Carl and Cesar Vialpando steal cars for the Wang Cars business in Doherty , San Fierro. This includes fitting a tracking device in a car , which Carl then follows and steals.
Zero then lends his expertise to Carl Johnson and Wu Zi Mu as they plan to pull off a heist at Caligula's Palace in Las Venturas . This includes creating devices to cut the power from Sherman Dam , stealing four HPV1000 police motorcycles and stealing a Leviathan .
Zero also participates in the heist itself, directing Carl, Woozie and the others around Caligula's Palace. However, prior to the heist, he inadvertently told Berkley about it, putting the whole heist at risk. Carl punches him in the face at the Verdant Meadows airstrip, knocking him to the ground. He makes no further appearances or association with Carl following the heist.
Zero also makes an appearance on the second episode of Lonely Hearts , saying that he "doesn't want to be a virgin all his life". Host Christy MacIntyre says that she cannot help him and "wouldn't even suggest him to a hooker ".
The Truth is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He was voiced by the late Peter Fonda .
The Truth is an elderly hippie who lives in Flint County and had previously owned a cannabis farm there. As a conspiracy theorist, The Truth is apparently well aware of conspiracies surrounding the government and related organisations (including law enforcement agencies and the police ), which causes him to question Carl after doing missions for Mike Toreno . Despite his strong conspiracy beliefs, he does seem to be wise from his experiences, even causing CJ to admit that some of the things he says aren't all crazy theories. Truth also owns a van dubbed " The Mothership ", although he claims to travel via his astral goat, Herbie , and is acquainted with mechanics Dwaine and Jethro , along with electronics expert Zero .
The Truth and Carl Johnson became friends while Carl was in exile in the Badlands , with Carl helping Truth in the theft of a combine harvester and the destruction of his own farm's crops after the police learn about the farm.
After Carl purchases an abandoned airfield in Bone County , The Truth once again seeks Carl's help, this time to steal government property , including a Jetpack from the Area 69 military complex and a containment unit containing unknown " green goo " transported by a heavily guarded train.
Truth later appears after Frank Tenpenny 's death, claiming that he tried to "beat the system" for 30 years , and congratulating Carl for doing so.
On two separate occasions, The Truth calls into the WCTR show Area 53 and talks about various conspiracy-themed topics. He states on the second time he calls in that he has "held them (aliens) in my own hands." The aliens he may be speaking about may possibly be the substance collected in the mission Green Goo .
Jizzy B. is a main character and a minor antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He was voiced by the late Charlie Murphy .
Jizzy is an infamous pimp in San Fierro , who owns the Pleasure Domes nightclub under the Gant Bridge . It is a gentleman's club, where Jizzy surrounds himself with prostitutes , whom he verbally abuses. Jizzy is a member of the Loco Syndicate drug cartel in San Fierro. Jizzy is the Cartel's face and charisma, recruiting men to pull hits, errands and other business for the Syndicate's dealings.
Jizzy owns a special Broadway called the "Pimpmobile" which has purple seats with a beech-colored paint job and a personalised license plate which reads HO 2 HO , alongside a black Stretch . After his first Broadway is given an APB, he buys another Broadway with the same license plate, albeit colored fully viridian green.
Carl Johnson becomes aware of the "big deal" between the Loco Syndicate and representatives from Big Smoke 's crack empire, and decides to use Jizzy B to learn about the Syndicate's business dealings.
Wu Zi Mu informs Carl that the "big deal" meeting is with Ryder and the Ballas , and Carl has to take Jizzy's carphone in order to find out about where the meeting will take place. Carl then drives to the Pleasure Dome, sneaks in via the rooftop and after Jizzy has a confrontation with Bettina , Carl kills the pimp's bodyguards in a shootout. A car chase ensues and Carl goes after and kills Jizzy B as he tries to escape in his Broadway .
Jizzy B can be heard on the radio show Lonely Hearts on WCTR during its first session, where he tells listeners that they can come down to the Pleasure Domes and hang out with his hookers. However, Christy MacIntyre hangs up his call after believing it is not how Lonely Hearts works at all.
Mike Toreno is a main character and false antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by James Woods .
Little is known about Toreno's background, other than the fact he is an undercover agent from an unknown government agency who disguises himself as a drug supplier for and leader of the Loco Syndicate . He was involved in battling threats in Latin America by any means necessary. He used the money and connections from the Loco Syndicate to deal with the overseas interest.
Carl Johnson first encounters Toreno when he and Cesar do some snooping with a Ballas drug van apparently headed for Angel Pine . When Carl and Cesar arrive at the rendezvous, they witness a meeting between Carl's former friend Ryder and the leading members of a drug cartel known as the Loco Syndicate, Jizzy B. , T-Bone Mendez and Toreno himself.
The first time Carl personally meets Toreno is during Carl's brief tenure as Jizzy's hitman, after Toreno is abducted by a gang of Da Nang Boys who are stealing one of the syndicate's drug vans with the agent inside. CJ and T-Bone locate the vehicle at the Easter Bay Airport , and free Toreno. The agent is immediately suspicious of Carl and pulls a gun on him, but T-Bone convinces Toreno not to shoot him. All three then destroy the van, with the cocaine still inside, in order to eliminate any evidence.
Following the death of Jizzy B., the Triads plan to ambush the Syndicate's drug purchase at Pier 69 . Carl assists them with a sniper rifle , but Toreno, who arrived by helicopter , notices Carl's victims on top of the pier buildings and aborts his landing. Carl later tracks the helicopter to another location and destroys it with a Rocket Launcher , seemingly killing Toreno.
Toreno, however, was never on the helicopter. After the Loco Syndicate Crack Factory is destroyed in San Fierro, Toreno goes incognito and, using a digitally-distorted voice, calls Carl to invite him to a ranch in Tierra Robada . Carl is shocked by Toreno's survival, and curses him as a mere drug dealer but Toreno reveals that he is in fact a government agent, and explains that he was distributing the cocaine to raise funds for overseas dictators and "useful" drug suppliers.
Toreno makes Carl an offer: if Carl works for him, taking down enemy agents and sabotaging rival agencies, no harm will come to Carl's now-incarcerated brother, Sean . If Carl does enough work for Toreno, Sweet will be granted an early release.
Toreno's assignments, which include commandeering a rival agency's truck and shooting down rival agency choppers from a plateau , strike Carl as almost impossible.
Later, Toreno sends Carl to purchase the Verdant Meadows Airfield , a derelict landing strip in Bone County , and use the facility to have Carl trained as a pilot . Afterwards, he immediately assigns Carl with jobs involving what he had learned from training. One time, he tasks Carl to deliver a package halfway across the state using a plane . At one point, a container jet lands without warning at the airstrip, and men in black suits and sunglasses empty out of it. Toreno instructs Carl to sneak on board, bomb the plane and parachute back onto land safely.
While Toreno initially dismisses Carl as street trash, and uses Sweet as a bargaining chip to ensure Carl's obedience, his attitude changes as Carl proves his ability to get seemingly impossible jobs done, and he begins to display a level of trust with Carl, despite still thinking nothing of sending him on dangerous errands. After a lengthy hiatus, Toreno eventually returns and gives Carl one last job. He personally drives Carl to a bay just outside Blueberry in Red County , and sends him to infiltrate an LHD and steal a V/STOL fighter jet from the Easter Basin Naval Station . Carl successfully takes the jet, shoots down enemy planes and takes out several boats at the Sherman Reservoir . Carl is then exasperated with the danger he has been exposed to, and his rage only increases when Toreno leaves him to deal with the burden of the stolen jet.
Toreno shows up unannounced yet again in the mission Home Coming , and tells Carl that he has one more mission. Carl snaps and holds a gun to Toreno's face, but Toreno is unperturbed and tells him he should be getting a call. At that point, Carl receives a phone call from Sweet, who has been released from prison – true to his word, Toreno has secured Sweet's release. Carl asks Toreno about the "job", which Toreno explains is to pick up Sweet. Carl leaves to pick up his brother and Toreno's later fate is unknown afterwards.
Philosophically, Toreno is a highly cynical American imperialist. He primarily uses Carl as a courier, saboteur, and assassin. Though he knows of Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski 's corrupt natures, Toreno does not use his power to stop them. He tells Carl in one mission, "we have to make decisions, kid. You know, I try to set bad people on other bad people. And sometimes, I let good guys die." Toreno, like Tenpenny, seems to have gravitated toward committing heinous acts in the name of a greater good, but unlike Tenpenny, Toreno is not corrupted by his power. He equates maintenance of the American socioeconomic system with the continued survival of the free world.
Due to a combination of his moral apathy, his "no-nonsense" attitude, as well as him giving various dangerous assignments without giving context, Toreno is greatly despised by Carl, who makes it clear on multiple occasions that he only does his biddings for Sweet's sake. However, unlike many other bosses Carl works for, Toreno appears to be a man of his word, as he fulfills his promise to Carl and secures his brother's early release from prison.
Toreno appears as a middle aged man with dark, slicked back hair and blue eyes. He wears a navy blue blazer, a light blue dress shirt, a red regimental necktie, gray slacks, and black dress shoes.
Mike Toreno inside the Maverick in Pier 69. He can be seen briefly in-game during the helicopter scene.
"T-Bone" Mendez is a main character and a minor antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by rapper Kid Frost .
T-Bone's background and real forename is unknown. At some point prior to 1992, he joined the San Fierro Rifa and eventually became the leader. Under his leadership, the Rifa confronted the Varrios Los Aztecas .
By 1992 , Mendez had become one of the three members in the Loco Syndicate , along with Mike Toreno and Jizzy B. . Mendez became the enforcer and protection of the syndicate, with Toreno overseeing and Jizzy arranging deals. T-Bone is a violent man and very distrustful of others, nearly to the point of paranoia. He is seen beating a man to death during The Introduction machinima.
He makes his first appearance in Photo Opportunity , when Carl and Cesar spy on a meeting of the Loco Syndicate from a rooftop across the road.
He and Carl Johnson meet for the first time during the mission T-Bone Mendez , and in the mission Mike Toreno , Carl drives while T-Bone uses his phone to locate Toreno. Mendez shortly afterwards becomes distrustful of Carl, and ambushes him from the back seat of a car in Outrider , holding a gun to Carl's head and accusing him of possibly being a "snitch", but his attempt to scare him into admitting it is unsuccessful.
Mendez's next and final appearance is in Pier 69 . Carl by that point had turned against the Loco Syndicate and had already killed Jizzy B, so to stop the spread of crack cocaine into Los Santos by disrupting the syndicate's partnership and deal with Big Smoke's Crack Empire and the Los Santos street gangs. With the help of Cesar, Carl kills many Rifa and Ballas thugs. The pair both shoot Mendez at the same time, whose lifeless body falls over the edge of the pier and into the ocean below.
Eddie Pulaski (Polish: Pułaski ; /puˈwas.ki/) is a main character and the quaternary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He was voiced by the late Chris Penn .
Pulaski's role as an antagonist in the game stems entirely from his role as the right-hand man of Frank Tenpenny . Tenpenny, Pulaski and Jimmy Hernandez make up the extremely corrupt unit of the LSPD known as C.R.A.S.H. .
He owns a silver Buffalo , with the license plate reading "PULASKI".
Big Smoke once refers to him as Tenpenny's "Polish lap dog" [ 1 ] , indicating he might be of Polish descent. His surname is also a hint to this.
At some point prior to 1992 , he joined the Los Santos Police Department. He later joined the Community Resource Against Street Hoodlums (C.R.A.S.H.) division under the leadership of corrupt policeman Frank Tenpenny, who slowly turned Pulaski into a corrupt police officer and showed him the "truth" of how the law should be handled, viewing the job more as 'percentages' and keeping the gangs in the city on an equal footing. Eddie would become Tenpenny's partner in crime. Over the years he had been working with Tenpenny, he developed a high level of deluded trust in their partnership (if anything, Tenpenny was simply using Pulaski to cover his back when needed) and an irreverent outlook on those he saw as below the law. He also served as Tenpenny's crooked henchman most of the time, doing numerous illegal activities and covering up the truth.
The two's criminal operations were threatened by Ralph Pendelbury , an LSPD officer who attempted to expose them to Internal Affairs after uncovering their corruption. Later, Jimmy Hernandez joined C.R.A.S.H. as their new partner. Hernandez was then 'initiated' into their criminal gang by killing Pendelbury while being threatened to be killed by Tenpenny and Pulaski.
Eddie Pulaski, alongside Tenpenny and Hernandez, are first seen arresting Carl Johnson in Ganton on his return to Los Santos from Liberty City for his mother's funeral. The three then drive Johnson around the city's poorer neighborhoods and hand him the gun that Hernandez had used to kill Pendelbury ten minutes previously, thus giving them leverage over Johnson. The three then throw him from their moving police car, leaving him in Jefferson , a part of the city controlled by Johnson's rivals, the Ballas . The three, after throwing Johnson out of their car, return to the scene of Pendelbury's murder. Pulaski continues to work with Tenpenny and Hernandez, but also becomes aware of Big Smoke and Ryder 's involvement in the death of Johnson's mother, committed by the Ballas who Smoke and Ryder had allied themselves with while remaining high-ranking members of the Grove Street Families .
Pulaski begins to go to Big Smoke's house in Idlewood and meets Johnson briefly at first, after which he meets him again at Smoke's house where Tenpenny reminds Johnson that he knows 'everything' about him and that he has his eye on him. Pulaski even throws his cigarette at Carl. Smoke, however, brushes these off by saying that Tenpenny and Pulaski won't leave him alone due to his connections with the Grove Street Families and has Johnson help him kill Los Santos Vagos gangsters making a deal with the San Fierro Rifa . Johnson also meets Tenpenny, Pulaski and Hernandez at Ryder's house in Grove Street where they tell them of a train loaded with weapons coming into the city, which Johnson and Ryder then attack, taking the weapons.
Tenpenny and Pulaski, after helping Big Smoke and Ryder, begin to put pressure on Johnson to work for him and first use their leverage to have Johnson kill a Los Santos Vagos 'cop-killing' gangster , which Johnson does. Tenpenny and Pulaski then have Johnson disrupt a meeting between the Ballas and Russian Mafia , with Johnson killing everyone in the building. Johnson then begins to work with others, but is later called by Cesar Vialpando , his sister's boyfriend and the Varrios Los Aztecas leader, with Johnson joining him in an alleyway in Verdant Bluffs . Vialpando and Johnson then witness Tenpenny, Pulaski, Smoke and Ryder unveil the green Sabre used in the killing of Johnson's mother. Johnson then remembers his brother, Sweet , who had gone to Mulholland Intersection for a shoot-out against the Ballas. Sweet is shot during the shooting and the Los Santos Police Department arrest him after they ambush the area .
Sweet is taken 'upstate' by the police (as revealed by Mike Toreno ) but Johnson, also present at the shooting, is taken by Tenpenny, Pulaski and Hernandez to Angel Pine in Whetstone . They have him kill and then photograph an old police officer being protected by the FBI in a cabin on Mount Chiliad , as he is about to turn state evidence against Tenpenny.
Johnson later moved to San Fierro after winning a run down garage in Doherty . Shortly after arriving, he is contacted by Tenpenny who has him go to the Vank Hoff Hotel in Financial to take a DA's car , while working as a valet, to put some of Truth's old marijuana , from his farm , in the trunk. Johnson then phones We Tip to inform them of the DA, who is threatening to expose Tenpenny and Pulaski. The San Fierro Police Department then turn up and arrest the DA for possessing the marijuana. Tenpenny and Pulaski then turn up at Johnson's garage and have him follow a journalist on his journey to Los Santos where he meets his informant . Johnson then kills the two to again protect Tenpenny and Pulaski.
Johnson continues to enjoy life in San Fierro before moving out into Tierra Robada and Bone County , and then settling into Las Venturas . He is contacted again by Tenpenny and Pulaski from a house in Prickle Pine . Tenpenny informs Johnson that despite their best efforts and the efforts of Johnson, the 'gig is nearly up'. Tenpenny tells Johnson that keeping his badge is not important and that they are the same, trying to get out of the hole, so when someone steps on him, he steps on Johnson. He then tells Johnson to go to Aldea Malvada , a ghost town, to collect a dossier and get rid of one DEA agent and one FBI agent, which Johnson does. He later meets the two at Las Brujas , another ghost town, where he hands the dossier to Pulaski while Hernandez holds him at gun point. After taking the dossier, Tenpenny knocks Hernandez unconscious with a shovel and accuses him of reporting to Internal Affairs. Tenpenny then leaves and tells Pulaski to deal with Hernandez and Johnson. After digging a hole for Hernandez and himself, Johnson tries to convince Pulaski that he is merely being used and that he will be the next killed, but Pulaski refuses to listen. Hernandez manages to regain consciousness and lunges at Pulaski, only to be shot dead. Pulaski then cowardly tries to escape in his Buffalo.
During the car chase, Pulaski insisted that Tenpenny wanted to keep CJ alive and would always find an excuse every time Pulaski demanded that CJ be killed. He also angers Carl, rilling him up with numerous disgusting and outrageous comments about his mother and sister. CJ ended up wrecking Pulaski's car and mortally injuring him, before asking a dying Pulaski if he has any "last requests". Pulaski asks to have sex with Kendl, which infuriates Carl, who kills Pulaski by dealing him a strong kick to the head.
During the mission Riot , when Frank Tenpenny is in court, the courts and newspapers presume that Pulaski is in hiding, but CJ (and, as later revealed, Tenpenny) knows otherwise. Just after Big Smoke is killed , Tenpenny comments: "You killed Pulaski, and now this fat fuck? There's no stopping you!".
Pulaski is depicted as a very violent, sadistic, and impulsive man. He appears to be somewhat sycophantic towards Tenpenny, always agreeing with whatever he says, suggesting he could be something of a "yes man". As part of C.R.A.S.H., Pulaski always tried to be paired as equal to Tenpenny and repeatedly tries to gain first name terms with him, despite Tenpenny repeatedly calling him out and reminding Pulaski that he is Pulaski's superior and should be addressed as "Officer Tenpenny".
It is possible he harbors racial prejudices, or is at least racially insensitive, as he makes a derogatory comment towards the Mexican cab driver who drove Carl from the airport in the introduction , although he does immediately apologize to Officer Hernandez after the incident.
Pulaski has shown a strong personal hatred towards Carl, often trying to get rid of him, only for Tenpenny to find "some excuse to keep [Carl] alive". In the High Noon mission, however, he finally has clearance to kill Carl, but fails to do so. He appears to have few qualms in abusing people verbally or physically and seems to be fond of practising his brutality on others.
Pulaski's favorite radio station seems to be Master Sounds 98.3 .
Pulaski seems to be partially inspired by Brian Liddy , one of the officers implicated in the Rampart scandal . He bears a certain visual resemblance to Liddy , while also resembling the late actor Chris Penn, who provided his voice. Additionally, Pulaski shares his first name with Penn's most famous character, 'Nice Guy' Eddie, from Reservoir Dogs . He also bears a slight resemblance to WWE superstar Brock Lesnar .
Pulaski may also be loosely inspired by Mark Fuhrman , an LAPD officer and detective who was assigned to the infamous 1994-95 murder trial of O. J. Simpson . During the trial, Fuhrman falsely denied using racial slurs under oath, which would be refuted by the defense who revealed the existence of tapes . In the tapes, Fuhrman confesses to using racial slurs, having misogynistic views, and engaging in acts of police brutality against African-Americans and even fabricating evidence and testimony against suspects.
Jimmy Hernandez is a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
He is voiced by Armando Riesco , who also voiced Victor Vance in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
Hernandez is a rookie police officer with the Los Santos Police Department and C.R.A.S.H. , alongside Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski . He recalls one of his most difficult cases to be a domestic dispute.
He joined the LSPD in 1989 . He was involved in a domestic violence case where a twenty-year-old hit his wife for letting their kids starve. Hernandez was forced to choose to either let the man walk free or arrest the man and let his drug addict wife keep neglecting her kids in the meantime. Three years later , he applied for C.R.A.S.H. membership with an intention to end gang crime.
Hernandez almost blows his membership with Tenpenny and Pulaski early on, after he says that a domestic dispute was difficult. Tenpenny tells him to get out of the car in Jefferson , however he is later seen in the dock area with Tenpenny and Pulaski. In The Introduction , Tenpenny asks Hernandez to shoot Ralph Pendelbury , which he does only after having his own life threatened.
Hernandez continues to work with Tenpenny and Pulaski in controlling each of the four gangs in Los Santos , but also in controlling the returning Carl Johnson . They pull him over when he is just around the corner from his home in Ganton , and frame him for the murder of Officer Pendelbury. They throw him out of the car, and leave him in Jefferson , which is Ballas territory. Later on, Hernandez phones Carl Johnson , telling him not to leave Los Santos and that they are watching him.
C.R.A.S.H. then tells Ryder about a train load of ammunition and weapons arriving in Los Santos, which Carl and Ryder then take . C.R.A.S.H. later employs Carl Johnson to burn down a number of houses used by the Los Santos Vagos . Following this, Carl is told to disrupt a meeting between the Ballas and the Russian Mafia . However, C.R.A.S.H. later turn on Carl and the Grove Street Families , and take Carl to Angel Pine in Whetstone .
Carl is left without any weapons and in the middle of nowhere, however C.R.A.S.H. knows exactly where he is. They send him up Mount Chiliad to kill a witness who is going to testify against Tenpenny and Pulaski, possibly Hernandez as well.
Upon reaching Las Venturas , Carl Johnson finds out from Mike Toreno about the murder of Officer Ralph Pendelbury by the hands of Frank Tenpenny , although Frank only ordered the murder, while Hernandez actually killed Pendelbury. This might be explained by the fact that Hernandez reported the murder to Internal Affairs, but told them that Tenpenny killed Pendelbury, since admitting he murdered an officer could bring him trouble. Since Toreno is a governmental agent and has access to such information as Jimmy's statement, he told Carl only what Hernandez declared. Of course, nobody could know what actually happened, with Pendelbury dead, Hernandez protecting himself, C.R.A.S.H. framing CJ and CJ not knowing the real situation. Toreno himself does not mention Hernandez.
When Carl, Tenpenny and Pulaski next meet in Las Venturas , Frank Tenpenny says that the gig is nearly up. He states that he and Pulaski may lose their badges, but does not mention Hernandez. This suggests that they are aware of Hernandez's role within C.R.A.S.H. This becomes apparent when Tenpenny and Pulaski turn on Hernandez. Tenpenny hits him with a shovel , knocking him out and calling him a snitch. Tenpenny presumes that he is dead and leaves. Pulaski, meanwhile, is left to force Carl Johnson to dig a grave for both him and Hernandez, but Hernandez suddenly regains consciousness and gets up in order to help Carl. However, Pulaski turns around and shoots Hernandez in the heart, killing him instantly, with his body falling into the grave.
He is mentioned in the mission Riot by a television news reporter, saying that he had probably been killed for threatening to turn states evidence.
Hernandez is actually a good cop, as he clearly wants to stop gang violence, not manipulate it like Tenpenny and Pulaski. In The Introduction, he mentions a domestic dispute over a father beating his drug-addicted spouse for buying drugs instead of food, thus allowing their children to starve. He recalls asking himself if he should let the man off for domestic abuse, or arrest the man, which would leave the children with a drug-addicted mother. While telling this story, he is ignored by Tenpenny and Pulaski.
Hernandez seems to have respect for Tenpenny at the beginning of The Introduction, but after being forced to kill fellow officer Ralph Pendelbury and seeing Tenpenny and Pulaski dealing with CJ, whom he knows is a criminal, he decides to inform the feds on his co-workers.
Hernandez is possibly influenced by Javier Ovando , a Honduran immigrant who was wrongfully implicated and shot by the LAPD and Rafael Pérez (who inspired Tenpenny), which would be revealed during the Rampart scandal . However, in contrast to Hernandez, Ovando survived the shooting, although he ultimately became paralyzed.
Hernandez may also be based on two Hispanic LAPD officers involved in the Rodney King beating named Theodore Briseno and Rolando Solano. Briseno was critical of his fellow officers' actions before the revelation of a recording, and was a witness for the prosecution during the ensuing trial. Briseno told Solano that "Sarge ( Stacey Koon ) really fucked up out there tonight". After the trial, Briseno would be discharged from the LAPD after being acquitted in both state and federal trials due to the police department's "code of silence" culture. Hernandez's appearance also resembles that of Briseno.
"Little" Jacob Hughes is the tritagonist and a friend in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Little Jacob was voiced by Coolie Ranx , a musician best known for his membership in the third wave ska bands The Toasters and Pilfers .
Little Jacob is a Jamaican drugs and arms dealer and a high-ranked member of the Yardies , being the right-hand man and long-time friend of Real Badman , leader of his own drug crew and posse. Throughout the game, Little Jacob serves as a close and trustworthy friend for Niko Bellic , providing some of the earlier missions and aiding Niko during later missions. He ultimately proves to be the closest ally for the Bellic cousins.
Little is known about Jacob's life prior to Grand Theft Auto IV . He was born in Jamaica, circa 1982. At some point in his life, Jacob met Teafore Maxwell-Davies , who's more commonly referred to as "Badman". The two became very close friends, and eventually formed the posse among Yardies , a Jamaican gang, going under the names "Little Jacob" and "Real Badman" respectively.
Some time prior to the early-2000s, Jacob and Badman moved to Liberty City . In 2001, they both were arrested for armed robbery. The two were also arrested on two further occasions, at the same years, only with different crimes; In 2002, Jacob was arrested for burglary, and in 2006, Badman was arrested for possessing marijuana.
Jacob and Badman continued to build their gang in Liberty City, from a café called Homebrew Café in Broker , which served as their base of operations. They also formed partnerships with the known drug baroness Elizabeta Torres , and the Latin street gang, the Spanish Lords . Jacob and Badman also became enemies of the Hustlers gangs, mostly a few drug dealers in Bohan . There is also a faction within the Yardies who are opposed to Jacob and Badman.
At some point prior to 2008, Jacob became close friends with Roman Bellic , the owner of Express Car Service , a small taxi depot, and the pair formed a strong friendship with each other.
Jacob first meets Niko Bellic , Roman's cousin, after he calls Roman for a taxi. Having no other available driver, Roman sends Niko to pick up Jacob. Jacob waits for Niko on Oneida Avenue in South Slopes , and asks Niko to drive him to an alleyway off Dillon Street in Schottler . During the drive to the meeting, Jacob gives Niko a pistol in order to watch over the meeting should things get messy.
Niko and Jacob next to the Homebrew Café , after their first job together.
At the alleyway, Niko takes up a position to watch over Jacob during the meeting. However, much to Jacob's surprise, three rival Yardies arrive rather than the expected one. They begin shooting at Jacob, but are killed in the crossfire of Jacob and Niko. A fourth Yardie appears on the roof, but is shot dead by Niko. After the failed assassination attempt on him, Jacob asks Niko to drive him back to the Homebrew Café. After they arrive at the café, Jacob gives Niko his phone number, hoping to stay in contact with him.
Niko helping Jacob take down one of his rival gangs.
Some time after their first meeting, Niko arrives at Little Jacob's Apartment to receive more work. Jacob comes out his apartment, and tells Niko about an attempt to make peace with some of his and Badman's rivals, as well as making a drug deal with them. However, Jacob does not trust the dealers to remain peaceful. The two drive to an apartment on Saratoga Avenue in Willis . The dealers try to rob Jacob, but fail and attempt to escape; but are taken down by Niko. Understanding that the deal was a trap, Niko and Jacob head to Savannah Avenue in Meadows Park , where the rest of the dealers live. Niko and Jacob storm into the house , killing the dealers . With the dealers dead, they head back to the Homebrew Café.
After a few days, in which Niko has begun working for the Russian Mafia , Jacob sends him a message asking him to come over his apartment for more work. Entering the apartment, Niko is pinned down by Badman, who mistook Niko for an intruder. After a proper introduction between the two, Badman and Jacob explain to Niko that they have a rivalry with a group of drug dealers moving in on their territory. They send Niko to eliminate the dealers, who are located in Fortside , Bohan . Niko follows the dealer into an apartment building. Inside, Niko kills the dealer and his two suppliers. After completing the job, Niko phones Jacob to tell him about his success.
Subsequently, Jacob begins hanging out with Niko and the two begin to become friends rather than merely associates in crime. After becoming close friends with Niko, Jacob will offer to sell him weapons , ammunition, and armor .
After completing Jacob's missions, he calls Niko and asks if he would like to continue working for him and Badman. Niko agrees, and Jacob offers drug delivery side-missions. Every time Niko accepts a job, Jacob leaves him a beater car loaded with drugs, and has him drive it to clients or drop-off locations. During some deliveries, Niko is ambushed by either the police or a rival gang.
After completing the tenth delivery, Jacob informs Niko that the LCPD are cracking down and they can no longer send him to deliver drugs. However, he and Badman decide to reward Niko with a unique Huntley Sport , decorated in the colours of the Jamaican flag.
Jacob meeting Niko before the latter's meeting with Dimitri.
After Niko kills Mikhail Faustin under the orders of Dimitri Rascalov , the two decide to meet at a warehouse near the docks in Broker, so Dimitri can pay Niko for the hit. Afterwards, Jacob phones and upon hearing about the meeting, decides to serve as Niko's backup in case Dimitri betrays him. Niko meets Jacob around the back of the warehouse.
Jacob's suspicions are proven to be right; Dimitri reveals he has allied himself with Ray Bulgarin , an old nemesis of Niko's, and the two attempt to murder Niko , resulting in a large shootout. Jacob helps Niko to kill the Russian mobsters, but Dimitri and Bulgarin escape as soon as the police arrive. Jacob and Niko manage to escape the warehouse as well, and Niko drives Jacob back to the Homebrew Café. During the drive, Niko vows to kill Dimitri and Bulgarin, while Jacob assures him that they will pay for trying to kill them.
In the next mission , Dimitri and Bulgarin set both Roman's apartment and taxi depot on fire, driving both him and Niko out of the borough of Broker and into Bohan . After the incident, Jacob sends a text message to Niko regarding the latest events.
Once in Bohan, Niko begins to work with Elizabeta Torres , a drug baroness in Liberty City, whom he met through Mallorie Bardas . After Niko protects Packie McReary during a drug deal for her, Jacob calls Niko to ask if he works for Elizabeta, and tells him that she is a rather good employer and even Badman is afraid of her.
Jacob later briefly works with Elizabeta, trying to help her in selling some cocaine to the Spanish Lords . However, they and their associates, The Angels of Death , rip them off. Elizabeta accuses Jacob of orchestrating the betrayal, which he loudly denies. Mid-argument, Elizabeta calls Niko in an effort to diffuse the situation, as she cannot understand what Jacob is saying.
Niko arrives at Elizabeta's apartment, stopping the argument between her and Jacob. After hearing the situation, Niko heads to the Old Hospital on Colony Island while Jacob heads to their meeting point in an alley in Chase Point . Niko clears the hospital of gangsters and bikers before getting the drugs, but police descended on the area, forcing him to flee. After meeting Jacob in the alley, the two are confronted by Michelle , Niko's girlfriend, who reveals herself to be an undercover government agent who was tasked with watching Niko. Michelle takes the cocaine whilst Niko and Jacob part ways.
Jacob also calls Niko during Elizabeta's last mission , asking him if he wants to hang out with him, but Niko declines the offer, as he was tasked with bringing the corpses of Manny Escuela and Jay Hamilton to a doctor in Broker, saying that he's currently "hanging out with two other friends".
Betrayed by his girlfriend, Niko begins to work for a government agency called United Liberty Paper . Niko's contact in the agency begins to send Niko to eliminate various Russians throughout the city.
In the contact's last mission, he sends Niko to eliminate the Russian businessman Eduard Borodin , who has been financing terrorist groups. The contact decides to send Jacob along as well in order to support Niko. Jacob and Niko take a Maverick helicopter (which was stolen by Niko in the contact's previous mission), and track down Borodin's Maverick, flying over Algonquin . In order to not hurt any citizens, the two follow Borodin out to sea, where Jacob pulls an RPG and destroys Borodin's helicopter, killing the target in the process. Niko then flies Jacob to the helitours helipad .
Jacob appears in both endings of Grand Theft Auto IV : Deal and Revenge . In both endings he plays a similar role.
Near the end of the game, Roman decides to marry his girlfriend Mallorie, while Niko decides to work once more with Dimitri, in order to get more money for Roman and himself.
Jacob, alongside Badman, attends Roman's wedding , meeting Niko and Roman's other friends there. After the ceremony, an unnamed Russian man arrives, attempting to murder Niko. Niko struggles with him, and after firing a stray shot, succeeds in forcing the pistol back and shooting the assassin in the head. Roman, however, was accidentally shot and killed during the struggle. Losing his temper, Niko begins to shoot and kick the killer's corpse, but Jacob stops him, saying that they will find Dimitri and his associate Jimmy Pegorino and make them pay.
The following day, Jacob calls Niko, telling him that he found two members of the Pegorino Crime Family . Niko and Jacob follow Pegorino's men to the abandoned Alderney Casino . Pegorino's men begin to shoot at them, causing Jacob and Niko to hide behind their car. While Jacob is willing to fight the mobsters, Niko wants to deal with them alone, asking Jacob to bring a transport instead; Jacob then runs away from the casino.
After Niko fights his way through the casino, witnessing Dimitri execute Pegorino, Niko chases him on a boat, while Dimitri is in a helicopter. Jacob then arrives in an Annihilator , and Niko jumps off the boat to the helicopter. The two continue their pursuit of Dimitri. Both helicopters crash onto Happiness Island , leading Niko to chase Dimitri down on foot. After finishing off Dimitri, Niko and Jacob leave the island.
Near the end of the game, Roman decides to marry his fiancée Mallorie, while Niko decides to finish off Dimitri, finally avenging all the people that Dimitri betrayed.
Jacob, alongside Badman, attends Roman's wedding , meeting Niko and Roman's other friends there. Moments after the ceremony, Jimmy Pegorino, armed with an Assault Rifle , pulls up in a car and begins to shoot at the guests in an attempt to kill Niko. Instead, he accidentally kills Niko's girlfriend, Kate McReary , before escaping the scene. An enraged Niko is calmed down by Jacob and Roman, who promise him that they will find Pegorino.
Jacob, Niko, and Roman stand next to a deceased Jimmy Pegorino.
The following day, Jacob calls Niko, telling him he found two members of the Pegorino crime family. Niko, Jacob and Roman follow Pegorino's men to the abandoned Alderney Casino. Pegorino's men begin to shoot at them, leading Jacob and Niko to hide behind their car. While Jacob and Roman are willing to fight the mobsters, Niko wants to deal with them alone, asking Jacob and Roman to bring transport; Jacob and Roman then run away from the casino.
After Niko fights his way through the casino, he confronts Pegorino, but he makes his escape. Niko begins to chase him on a motorbike, while Pegorino attempts to escape by speedboat. Jacob and Roman then arrive in an Annihilator , and Niko jumps off the bike mid-air lands and onto the helicopter. The two continue their pursuit of Pegorino. Both the helicopter and the speedboat crash onto Happiness Island , leading Niko to chase Pegorino on foot. After finishing off Pegorino, Jacob, Niko and Roman leave the island
Little Jacob during his last appearance, being helped by a Petrovic Mafiya hired goon.
At some point in 2008, after the confront in Happiness Island, Little Jacob became associated with Kenny Petrovic, a powerful Russian crime kingpin who recently returned to Liberty City. As a personal favor for Jacob from Petrovic himself, a hired goon from the Petrovic Mafiya is sent to escort him during to drug deal. This is the last chronological physical appearance of Little Jacob.
Not much is known about how Jacob continued on with his life after 2008, though it is implied that Jacob and Niko are still close friends as of 2013 by Niko's page on Lifeinvader , although this is considered an Easter egg.
Little Jacob reveals much less about his personal life than other friendship characters. According to Badman during his random encounter , Jacob has a girlfriend that he loves very much and often treats to gifts (which Jacob mentions once himself). Jacob and Badman once had a third friend nicknamed Granddad who could keep Badman calm, but he has since retired back to Jamaica. One of Jacob's best traits is loyalty, as he always stands by Niko and goes out of his way to help him.
Jacob is a typical Rastafarian who speaks in Iyaric (terms like "I and I", "Brother" and "Rasta"). During friendship activities, Niko's and Jacob's conversations are often philosophical and the duo discuss their concerns for the people around them. Jacob finds most non- Ital food distasteful (ironically, his first appearance in the game is a brief cutscene outside a Burger Shot outlet and he also likes the food in Cluckin' Bell ). His accent is quite difficult to understand, but much easier in comparison on to Badman's near-impenetrable Jamaican patois , so Jacob often acts as an interpreter. He loves reggae music, particularly the radio stations Tuff Gong Radio (an all- Bob Marley station), Massive B Soundsystem 96.9 , and RamJam FM (on the PC version of Grand Theft Auto IV: The Complete Edition ). He mentions being a huge fan of reggae artist Sonny Bradshaw , calling him his "uncle" spiritually. Jacob and Niko also both like Bobby Konders .
Jacob constantly smokes cannabis (even during the helicopter chase in Paper Trail ), seeing it as "enlightenment", although other times he says he is trying to quit. He often speaks of his concern for Badman smoking too much marijuana and becoming very paranoid (an effect that Jacob does not experience). Jacob blames local marijuana for being unnatural and unhealthy for the brain and admits his own addiction. Jacob confesses that he thinks Badman may turn on him one day in his paranoia. The main reason for this, according to Jacob, is the cocaine trade, which is not supposed to be the business of the true Rasta.
Jacob is a dark-skinned man with long black dreadlocks, which he often has tied back, and a goatee. He often wears black glasses with orange lenses. Throughout the game, Jacob wears three different outfits:
Following the mission Shadow , Jacob becomes available as a friend , triggered by a phone call in which he asks Niko to either hang out with him, or to drive him to a certain location. Jacob is the second friend introduced in Grand Theft Auto IV . Jacob is available between 13:00 until 04:00.
Similar to the other friends in the game (save for Brucie Kibbutz ), there are six activities that the player can do with Jacob: Drink, Eat, Play Pool, Visit a Strip Club, Attend A Show, and Play Darts.
Jacob's favorite locations to eat are fast-food restaurants, particularly Cluckin' Bell . Jacob's favorite drinking venue is Club Liberty .
At 75% friendship stat, Jacob will offer to sell the player weapons, ammunition, and body armor. Niko can buy Jacob's weapons at a 30% discount rate. Jacob's weapons are unlocked gradually as the game progresses.
Jacob 's Virgo .
2002 - Burglary: Illegal Entry with Criminal Intent
- Jamaican criminal based in East Liberty City - Believed to be part of a Marijuana and Cocaine distribution network run by Teafore Maxwell-Davies, street name - Real Badman.
Bruce Motivation "Brucie" Kibbutz [ 1 ] (born Bruce Kibbutz , Hebrew: בְּרוּס קִבּוּץ ) is a central character and a friend in Grand Theft Auto IV , and a supporting character in The Ballad of Gay Tony and Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is also heard in radio commercials in The Lost and Damned and mentioned through his business in both Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars and Grand Theft Auto V .
He is portrayed by Timothy Adams .
Kibbutz is a luxury automotive entrepreneur, fitness enthusiast, and lifestyle coach. He is also a frequent user of steroids and possibly a closeted bisexual.
Bruce Kibbutz was born c. c. circa 1977 to Jewish parents. Brucie occasionally mentions to Niko that he was once a "fat loser" that "no girl would want to date." In the mission Search and Delete , he awkwardly claims that if he were gay, Roman would be in big trouble, but then quickly states he is only joking about being attracted to Roman. He also makes a definite point of saying to Niko "Brucie likes pussy... remember that, all right?"
Brucie indulges in what he calls "juicing" – injecting testosterone allegedly taken from Chilean bull sharks . It has led to excessive roid rage , and may account for Brucie's overactive excitement in most situations. He is a steroid user and possibly a dealer of performance enhancing drugs, something that has resulted in a few encounters with law enforcement.
In The Ballad of Gay Tony , Brucie's older brother Mori Kibbutz is introduced. Mori ridicules Brucie to no end, even now that they are both adults. During his appearances in Mori's missions, Brucie's arrogant, self-absorbed and egotistic lifestyle is revealed to be the result of living in his older brother's shadow, Mori constantly putting him down and becoming overly competitive. More than once, this results in Brucie quietly sobbing to himself. His bisexuality is also more outwardly hinted at, most significantly in the mission Ladies Half Price when he awkwardly tries to kiss Luis, even though he very quickly covers his tracks, claiming that he was just checking to see Luis wasn't gay. He also denies his bisexuality in an e-mail he sends to Niko if the player wins a race in GTA IV . However, Brucie indicates his potential bisexuality to Niko numerous times in the game, occasionally asking Niko to touch a part of his body to feel how "perfect" it is or saying things like "I'd love to eat with your ass, bro. Not your ass, with your ass." when asked to go out on a friend activity.
Brucie is a successful entrepreneur who runs Brucie's Executive Lifestyle Autos , a garage situated in East Hook , Broker . He makes a point of flaunting his money and has even started his own website called Brucie's Executive Lifestyle , the actual purpose of which is unknown, but which seems to be a combined blog/lifestyle guide. Brucie is a V.I.P. at Maisonette 9 , and has his name laminated on the guest list (it is implied Roman does as well). His favorite place to eat is at the Superstar Café . He seems to work out at Zajecki Gym as he will sometimes wait there to be picked up by Niko Bellic before going out .
Brucie 's unique Huntley Sport .
Being in the business of cars (importing and exporting, customization, etc) provides him many luxury and sport cars for his own use. Two of his own vehicles, a Banshee and Huntley Sport , have a black and gold color scheme. In addition, he owns a Squalo powerboat and a Maverick helicopter, both for purposes of entertaining women and friends. He is a womanizer, and is openly disrespectful towards women; it is implied that they are only drawn to Brucie because of his vast fortune, which he uses to take them on power-boating and helicopter rides throughout Liberty City.
Brucie states on his website that he legally changed his middle name to "Motivation" , and repeats multiple times that he is not joking. This can be seen on the "motivation" tab of his website.
A half of Brucie's Chinese tattoos are derisive, indicating that he might not have had a clear knowledge of Chinese when he got them.
Brucie's attitude towards life has also attracted many friends, including Roman Bellic , who aspire to live like him. Roman meets Brucie through his website, and eventually, Roman introduces Brucie to his cousin Niko, who starts to work for Brucie. This well as forms an "odd couple" friendship (Brucie's attitude of loud, egotistical, self-centered and impulsive are the complete opposite of Niko Bellic 's). Nonetheless, the two become good friends over time. Despite his protestations that he is not Russian, Niko is praised by the oblivious Brucie for his "Red Army" fighting and driving skills.
At first it appears as though Brucie is working for some sort of crime boss, as he orders Lyle Rivas killed for cooperating with police, his car stolen and his gay cousin Tom killed by Niko for debts. Niko later learns that Brucie is largely a legitimate business owner (though his Executive Lifestyle Auto shop is a "chop shop"), and not involved in organized crime – it is implied that the missions he set you were unnecessarily violent and mostly fueled by 'roid rage. Brucie, however, does not contradict the justifications for his prior missions (silencing snitches, etc.).
Following this revelation, Niko ends the business relationship with Brucie, however the two remain friends and socialize often. Brucie introduces Niko to the world of underground street racing as well, along with a stolen car ring . First, Niko performs a series of thefts for Brucie through email listings, and then eventually he is introduced to a colleague named Stevie , whose list is much more difficult to attain - Brucie's requests take the form of mini-missions, with markers designating the vehicle locations, whereas Stevie's requests merely specify the make of the vehicle, and its general vicinity. Brucie also tips Niko off to a vigilante system set up by the Liberty City Police Department , where they have contracted out assassinations to vigilantes like Niko through a "Most Wanted List" .
He does not physically appear in The Lost and Damned , but it is possible to hear his voice on Liberty Rock Radio , and the radio host will make a mark of his use of steroids by saying "Be genetically different baby". Roman also mentions him in the mission Roman's Holiday when he exclaims that he's "Sorry for laughing at Brucie's balls!"
Brucie is one of the few characters from the original GTA IV that actually engages with Luis in extended dialogue, often appearing along with Roman either inside, or trying to get into Maisonette 9. During the missions for Mori Kibbutz , light is shone on Mori and Brucie's relationship as brothers, mostly consisting of Mori belittling and ridiculing Brucie at every turn, with Brucie refusing to stand up to him until the end of No. 3 , where Brucie, having taken enough abuse, breaks Mori's nose, finally besting his brother.
Towards the end of the game, Brucie awkwardly attempts to kiss Luis, but hastily claims it is a test of Luis' masculinity (see above).
In the ending credits it reveals that Brucie and Mori solved their differences and entered themselves into the L.C. Fight Club and are seen fighting in the cage, without behaving overly aggressively towards each other.
Circa 2013 , Brucie has become the spokesman for Bull Shark Testosterone supplements. The player can look at the website for Bull Shark testosterone and even hear a Weazel News report about the effects of Bull Shark testosterone, both of which mention Brucie as the spokesman. Brucie is also an avid bleeter and his bleets can be read with new ones being posted throughout progression of the storyline, with bleets covering on his life and give-aways on calendars from 2012 that feature pin-ups of himself. His Bleeter profile picture and website picture shows his appearance to be different from GTA IV as he now sports a different shaped head, a goatee and looks quite a bit older, probably due to artificial tanning and steroid abuse. It is implied also that his car is stolen by Lamar Davis in a deleted mission , though it is likely that he still had his car stolen offscreen.
Brucie appears in GTA Online and contacts the character after they reach rank 17, informing them that he will order Bull Shark Testosterone of which the player can then phone Brucie for him to deliver. Brucie will occasionally call the player if they have not ordered Bull Shark Testosterone and will stop only after they order it at least once.
By 2019 , Brucie has apparently relocated to Los Santos . He responds to an ad at The Diamond Casino & Resort for a personal masseuse/fitness aide to its then owner Tao Cheng . Brucie soon has the young Triad on a schedule of intense work outs and Bull Shark Testosterone. Unintentionally, the supplements make Cheng highly agitated and spark a war with Avery Duggan and his potent private security force. Brucie stays in his post throughout the ensuring conflict between the resort and the Duggan family. At the end of the conflict, Tao sells the Casino & Resort and boards a plane to return to China.
Brucie is still employed as a masseuse in The Diamond Casino Heist update. While scoping the Casino for the heist , if the online protagonist uses the elevator to head to the rooftop, they'll run into Brucie who, along with several other VIP guests, are invited to Yung Ancestor 's afterparty. Later on, he'll accompany Yung to help cause a distraction during The Big Con approach if Yung is selected as entrance disguise. Here, Brucie and Yung feign an act that ended up with Brucie getting shot in the leg which he used as an excuse to lure Debbie out of her office in order for the crew to steal a keycard to gain access to the Staff Lobby.
While he does not physically appear in Los Santos Tuners update, his "Bitch" Banshee ( custom license plate D481TCH ) can be sometimes be found inside the LS Car Meet warehouse, meaning that he attends the LS Car Meet as of 2021 .
He meets Sessanta (off-screen) at the meet and gives her a list of his latest vehicle requests for his import/export business. The player can steal as many of the vehicles they find and deliver them to the Terminal location where they will be loaded onto the Ocean Motion . Once the player exports a total of 1000 vehicles, Brucie will send them a text thanking them for all that they have done.
Brucie Kibbutz' appearance and personality may have been inspired by the character of FPS Doug, from the internet series Pure Pwnage .
2003 - Possession Controlled Substance: Steroids 2003 - Speeding Violation 2004 - Speeding Violation
- Believed to operate a chop shop for stolen vehicles. - Suspected involvement in the illegal street racing scene. - Known steroid user and dealer. - Very aggressive, known to lash out when resisting arrest.
At some point after completion of the mission "No. 1" for Brucie, he will call the player to do some activity with them and it's possible to become friends with him. The player can do most of the activities with him that are available for other friends (except playing pool or darts), and he has two unique activities [ 3 ] : Heli Rides, and Powerboat Rides.
Brucie is one of five friends the player can make within Grand Theft Auto IV and he's usually available between 7 AM to 1 AM.
Brucie is available for seven types of activities. They are: Boating, Heli Ride, Bowling, Drinking, Eating, Show, and Strip Club. His favourite activities are boating, heli ride, bowling and drinking in high-end bars.
When the player gets above 75% in Brucie's Like Stat, they will gain his Special Ability which is being able to get him to transport the player anywhere by helicopter [ 4 ] . This will add a Chopper option in his entry in the Phonebook.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Patrick "Packie" McReary (Irish: Pádraig Mac Ruairí ) is a character appearing as a central character and a friend in Grand Theft Auto IV , making a cameo in The Lost and Damned , and appearing as a supporting character in The Ballad of Gay Tony and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto V . In the latter, he appears in a random event and based on its outcome, he can become an optional heist accomplice . In the Grand Theft Auto Online update The Diamond Casino Heist , he returns as a recruitable member for the heist in 2019 .
Packie is a member of the McReary Crime Family and the youngest brother of the McReary family itself.
He is portrayed by Ryan Johnston .
Packie was born to Maureen McReary and an unnamed father . His siblings consisted of older brothers Derrick , Francis and Gerald , with Kate being born two years after him. Born and raised in Dukes , he had never been outside Liberty City – except for Alderney State – until after the events of GTA IV .
Packie's father was a violent, perverted alcoholic whom Packie blames for their mob's loss of influence. He says of his father, "I used to think I loved him, but then I realised I hated him". He eventually admits to Niko that his father used to molest both him and Gerry. He developed a drug habit at the age of fourteen and claims he was constantly staying home from school to roll joints for his father.
Packie became involved in crime at an early age, having chosen Gerry as a role model and began spotting for his brother's scores when he was in middle school. His first conviction was in 1997 when he was arrested for stealing a car aged eighteen. The following year, he secured his first felony conviction when he was arrested for grand larceny, but he was (presumably) acquitted. He was arrested again in 2000 for hijacking. Packie's last known arrest was in 2005 when he was caught with several grams of cocaine in the presence of a known prostitute . At some point, his father apparently committed suicide, and Gerry became the head of the McReary crime family, although Packie admits that he initially suspected Gerry of killing their father.
By the time of Grand Theft Auto IV , Packie largely operates independently of the Irish Mob, committing stick-up robberies with his friends Michael Keane and Gordon Sargent , and working as a hired gun for the Pegorino Crime Family .
Packie was introduced to Niko Bellic through cocaine dealer Elizabeta Torres . Packie and Niko quickly befriend each other after escaping from a botched cocaine deal together . Impressed, Packie called up Niko and introduced him to his family and his gang. They all participated in robbing other criminal gangs (first robbing the Triads and then the Ancelotti Crime Family ), and eventually the Chinatown branch of the Bank of Liberty in Algonquin during a heist . Packie purchases a red Comet with his share of the takings.
After the bank robbery, Packie continued working with Niko, particularly in the kidnapping of Gracie Ancelotti for Gerry. Unknown to Packie, Niko murdered one of his brothers . Nonetheless, Niko's assistance in suppressing an attack on the funeral of the same brother cemented their friendship. Packie trusted Niko enough to encourage him to date Kate, the youngest of the McReary clan. Though he was confident she wouldn't "put out" – as he regularly states – his bypassing of his protective instinct showed that he held a distinct level of trust in Niko, and a hope that he would treat Kate with respect. That is, if the player doesn't choose the Revenge ending.
If the player chooses Revenge, it will lead to Kate's death, and also lead to an immense heartbreak for Packie. He will call the player post- credits and express to Niko immense heartbreak and survivor's guilt about his and his brothers' actions, saying tearfully, "It was us McReary men who were the sinners! We're paying for that ourselves, she didn't have to pay too!". He also explains to Niko that he has to stay with his mother, since he is all she has left now with Kate being gone, insinuating to the player that Francis McReary and Derrick McReary, if either one not previously killed by Niko, are either now killed, captured, or cut off completely by Maureen.
In the credits of The Ballad of Gay Tony , Packie is seen leaving a taxi and entering Francis International Airport carrying a duffel bag, presumably filled with money. In the following scenes, a plane is seen leaving the runway heading for an unknown destination. By 2013 , he was living in Los Santos .
Whether or not the reason(s) of Packie's departure are related to either his mother not wanting him around at that point of time, the possible deaths of his other brothers, and/or even just the guilt of Kate's death is left to speculation. It could be a mix of all these factors, but it is still left ambiguous. Regardless, Packie departs and leaves Liberty City, in pursuit of a new chapter to his life.
Packie appears again in Grand Theft Auto V , appearing early in the game as he holds up a drug store in Strawberry with an unnamed accomplice . Once the player finds him, he requests that they find a getaway car and help them escape. The player may do so, or assist the store owner and kill Packie and his accomplice, although killing them is considered non-canon . If they help them instead, Packie will thank the player and become available as a gunman in further heists . Packie has some of the highest possible skills for a gunman available, but takes 12% percent of the cut.
Interestingly, if Packie is chosen as a gunman, he mentions his biggest robbery during the drive from Sandy Shores to Paleto Bay in The Paleto Score . On the journey to the bank, the gang will talk about their first robberies. Packie mentions that one of the gunmen was killed by one of the hostages , and goes into detail regarding how they escaped. He will also mention his brother, Derrick, who was also a gunman in the Bank of Liberty robbery, and reveal that he is now dead. Lastly, he mentions Niko Bellic , the fourth gunman. Packie says that he had lost contact with Niko after leaving Liberty City, and that he doesn't even know what became of him, presuming him to be dead. It's left up to uncertainty and for the player to decide for themselves as to whether or not Packie meant it truthfully that Niko is dead, or is speaking symbolically since he just hasn't contacted him.
Packie can be selected in all the heists of the game. In either approach of The Jewel Store Job , he manages to successfully get all the jewels in the glass cabinets, helping the crew reach the maximum possible score of the job. In the loud approach, he also stops the manager of the jewelry store before she screams for help.
In The Paleto Score, Packie survives the heist and provides good assistance against the authorities. Michael even compliments Packie's help by saying that he is glad they chose him for the score.
In The Bureau Raid , he survives the explosion during the escape in the covert approach, while in the roof approach he does a good job with no consequences.
In the subtle approach of The Big Score , if placed as one of the gunmen, he does not drop any gold bars while he is loading them into the Gauntlets , preventing the crew from losing any of the final score.
In the obvious approach, if he is selected as either the first or second gunman, there are no consequences to the heist. Previous experience in past heists won't change Packie's performance in any of the scores; he does a good job in all of them even if he is selected for the first time.
Packie is still alive in 2019, thus confirming that the canon option for his random encounter is to help him and his accomplice escape. He appears in The Diamond Casino Heist update, and has a new random encounter which sees him locked up in the back of a Police Transporter with an unnamed accomplice. He will call out for help if the player gets close, whereupon the player can choose to attempt a rescue. If the player successfully stops the van, escapes from the police and drives to a designated remote area, then Packie will be freed. Lester Crest will send a text message suggesting McReary owes a debt to the player that can be repaid by participating in the heist.
Similarly to his role in the Grand Theft Auto V heists, Packie is a good option for the casino heist, as he has average skills and an intermediate cut, of only 8%.
In the preparation mission Unmarked Weapons , Packie will provide the following loadouts:
On the surface, Packie portrays himself as strong and without feeling. But when drunk or otherwise confiding in Niko, he is shown time and time again to be suppressing deeply painful emotions. For example, he will lament that "the world is ugly and unkind", question what being a man is all about, and contemplates suicide. He has an addictive personality, as shown by his habitual use of cocaine and prostitutes. He doesn't seem to seriously consider immediately and directly killing himself, but does glamorize the idea that he will die young of a drug overdose. Compared to Niko, Packie is equally capable of violence and criminal activity whilst appearing to show little or no remorse. He does, however, still hold certain moral standards; if the player kills too many hostages during the mission Three Leaf Clover , the mission will fail and Packie will say that he doesn't take "bloody money". Also, after the trio manage to find a getaway car, Packie laments Michael Keane's death during the robbery, exclaiming that "he [Packie] could've been nice to him once in his fucking life", showing that Packie cared about his now-late friend/partner-in-crime.
Packie's cocaine addiction has caused him numerous problems. He claims that he can't look for women without cocaine in his system and when he's with women, he spends his time in the bathroom snorting rails of coke, which lowers his sex drive (he calls this a "catch 22"). Kate claims that Packie is very overprotective of her and he will violently attack anyone who he thinks is looking at her "wrong".
Packie is slightly shorter and slenderer than Niko. He also has a long scar under his left eye, possibly from a drunken fight. His nose appears to be slightly crooked, hinting that it may have been broken. He wears a white long-sleeved undershirt, green polo shirt, blue jeans and sneakers that look very similar to the ones at the Russian Shop . He has green eyes with a grey tint, and a buzz cut hairstyle with visible sideburns. He has noticeable skin damage, probably due to cocaine use.
Packie appears, but looks very different from his Grand Theft Auto IV look. He is seen with considerably more scars, light stubble, and looks much older. The mole on the top right corner of his lip is more noticeable and has developed wrinkles around his eyes. His eyes appear as a lighter auburn and are less distressed and bloodshot. His outfits are determined by his appearance in heists; his default appearance consists of a tan flight jacket, jeans, and black sneakers. His nostrils are also more enlarged than they were five years previously in GTA IV . All of these cosmetic changes are likely due to his habitual cocaine use.
At some point after completing Three Leaf Clover, Packie calls Niko to do a friend activity with him. After this event is completed, Niko will become friends with him. Packie is one of five friends Niko will make within the game, and is available between 4 PM and 6 AM. He is available for six different activities: Bowling , Darts , Drinking , Pool , Show, and Strip Club . He is the only friend that cannot be taken out to eat. If the player brings Packie to any restaurant, the yellow arrow corona will not pop up and Niko can enter and purchase food as normal.
When Packie's "Like Stat" rises above 75%, the player will unlock his Special Ability. Packie's Special Ability allows Niko to call Packie and ask him to prepare a car bomb , which can be used to take down difficult targets. This ability can be useful in certain situations and missions. When the player requests a bomb, Packie will inform Niko of its location. Once Niko has located the bomb, he can detonate it by calling Packie. Receiving Packie's friendship bonus will award the player the " Dial B for Bomb " trophy/achievement .
He likes it when Niko drives fast, saying things such as "If you have somewhere to be then you may as go at pace. I like it!" and "This is the way to do it, Niko." He also enjoys fighting while on friend activities, and – as with all friends – will assist in any combat during the activity.
Packie's Heist Skills for GTA V :
1998 - Grand Larceny 2000 - Hijacking
- Suspected in a number of robberies and hijackings. - Arrested with several grams of cocaine in the presence of a known prostitute.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Kate McReary (Irish: Cáit Nic Ruairí ) is a main character and dateable girlfriend in Grand Theft Auto IV .
She is voiced by Mary Catherine Donnelly .
Kate is the sister of Patrick , Francis , Gerald , and Derrick McReary , as well as the only daughter and the youngest child of Maureen and an unnamed father . She works at the community center in Dukes .
According to Packie, Kate witnessed several bloody fights between her brothers; seeing Gerry beating Francis was a traumatic childhood experience for her (she was in therapy for quite a while). Over time, she has apparently become accustomed to living close to violent crime, liking Niko despite her disapproval of his dangerous lifestyle. In contrast to all his sons, Mr. McReary had an excellent relationship with Kate and was pretty much never angry at her.
Kate McReary is first introduced to Niko Bellic when he meets her through her brother Packie during the mission Harboring a Grudge . Niko visits the McReary family home , where he encounters Kate, who stands out due to her disapproval of the criminal activities surrounding her family.
Soon after their introduction, after they have evidently warmed up a bit to each other, Packie suggests that Niko call Kate and take her out on dates, where they still try to get along despite her disapproval of Niko's criminal activities as well. Kate's conversations with Niko, after they go drinking, will eventually reveal that she knew that her father was molesting her brothers. She doesn't explicitly state that her father was a child molester but she does cry that she knew what he was doing to her brothers. One may deduce at first that she knew their father was beating the boys however, once Packie reveals that their father molested both him and Gerry one can conclude she knew her father was molesting her brothers, but kept quiet since her father did not molest her. She thinks her brothers' bad and illegal behaviors are a means to rebel against their father.
Kate plays a crucial role during the game's final missions. Her ultimate fate depends on Niko's decision to either do a deal with his old enemy Dimitri , or exact revenge on him.
If "Deal" is chosen, Kate is mad at Niko for making a deal with Dimitri when she told him not to, and doesn't attend the wedding as a result. After Niko kills Dimitri to avenge Roman (who was accidentally killed by Dimitri's hitman ), Kate calls him, telling him that she heard of his cousin's death, and will be there for him. After few-in-game days, Kate will call Niko and tell him that she is going away. She will say that she doesn't want to bring children in the world to be raised without a father. After a few in game hours, she will send Niko an email to say goodbye once again.
If "Revenge" is chosen, Kate is happy that Niko decided to kill Dimitri rather than do the deal. She attends Roman's and Mallorie 's wedding with Niko. During the wedding, Kate is accidentally killed by Jimmy Pegorino (who was aiming for Niko) and Niko takes revenge on Pegorino for Kate's death. Later, after Niko has killed Pegorino, Roman says that he and Mallorie are expecting a baby : if it's a girl, they will name her after Kate.
Kate has three kinds of outfits:
In Harboring a Grudge, Waste Not Want Knots , and I Need Your Clothes, Your Boots, and Your Motorcycle , she wears a white sweater and a black shirt with denim jeans.
In Mr. and Mrs. Bellic , she wears a green sweatshirt and a multi-coloured shirt with black trousers.
In Undertaker , she wears a black sweatshirt with a black shirt (or somewhat dark green) and black trousers.
During dates, she wears her first outfit, (with her top randomly rotating between her default and Undertaker top) dates after completion of the mission Undertaker, her outfit will always be the one seen during the said mission.
Kate is a bit more complicated to date than the other girlfriends. She prefers Niko to wear clothing from Modo . Her activities are also limited as well, seeing as how she does not like to go bowling , or see a show at either Perestroika or Split Sides As mentioned, she can be taken drinking , where she emotionally reveals more about her family. Niko can notably never sleep with Kate no matter how many times the player tries the "try your luck" option at the end of a date, since she only considers Niko to be a friend. Kate does not like fast food as she will respond with negative comments such as: Fast food? Great, a heart attack!
Similarly to Michelle , Kate does not have a special ability which can be unlocked. She sleeps from midnight until 8AM.
Deal Ending
Revenge Ending
Mikhail Faustin (Russian: Михаил Фаустин ) is a main character and the tertiary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto IV . He is also mentioned indirectly in The Lost and Damned .
He is voiced by Karel Roden .
Mikhail Faustin was born and raised in the Soviet Union. He met a man named Dimitri Rascalov while serving in the military during the Cold War in 1987, and they were later cellmates in a Siberian prison camp. Both he and Dimitri have tattoos on the palms of their hand which represent that they are "brothers for life" (many initiated members of his organization have the same tattoo later on in time.) It is apparent that Mikhail protected Dimitri from being raped in prison (which he will sometimes remind Dimitri of in order to force him into following orders.) In 1988, when Mikhail was twenty-five, his future wife Ilyena gave birth to their daughter Anna – Ilyena was only eighteen years old at the time of their baby's birth. Ilyena reminisces that Mikhail was "beautiful" at this time, before he became possessed by anger. Dimitri also talks of Mikhail in a more positive tongue. When the Cold War ended in 1991; both Mikhail and Dimitri began selling hashish to tourists in Red Square, Moscow. Both men had multiple murder convictions by this time.
Mikhail "exploited a loophole in the immigration treaty to gain US residency in the late 90s" - relocating to Hove Beach in Liberty City with Dimitri, Ilyena, and Anna. Men who had worked for Faustin in Russia had traveled to Liberty City too. He quickly established a foothold for his organization in Hove Beach, and he was eventually arrested in 1998 for extortion. His enterprise was made up of several investments - the Perestroika cabaret, protection rackets, cocaine distribution, pornography, and stolen goods (which he was arrested for in 2002). His life of crime provided him with a lavish lifestyle, consisting of a large home in Beachgate , and two luxury cars (a Turismo and a custom black Schafter. ) Mikhail was able to offer his daughter a privileged lifestyle, and claims to have spoiled her as she grew up.
He began to frequently abuse cocaine and alcohol - likely since 2005. Ilyena and Dimitri grew accustomed to Mikhail's disturbing new personality by 2008, which was probably caused by his drug habits. Mikhail became abusive and unfaithful towards his wife, as well as stern towards Anna. He is very stubborn and refuses to take advice from his peers, particularly Dimitri.
Examples of his violent streak include the murders of Andrei (a member of the organization in which Dimitri favored) and Jason Michaels (a member of The Lost MC who was dating Mikhail's daughter), as well as the borderline–terrorist bombing of a Petrovic-owned auto garage in Bohan.
Among these and other violent and rash moves, Mikhail called for the death of Lenny Petrovic , who was the son of the most powerful Russian mob leader in Liberty City , Kenny Petrovic because he assumed that Lenny has snitched on him. This results in an all-out war between the two Russian factions. Kenny contacts Dimitri and explains that setting Mikhail up to be killed will ultimately restore order. Dimitri agrees to betray Mikhail, and tells Kenny that the man who eliminated his son was a "hired gun" who had no affiliation with Faustin's organization, in order to keep Niko safe from harm. Kenny tells Dimitri that he who killed his son, must be the man to kill Mikhail Faustin.
Niko immediately goes to the Perestroika , where he finds Mikhail. After a bloody shootout between Niko and members of Mikhail's gang, Mikhail finally meets his maker on the rooftop, where he falls to his death after being shot.
While Dimitri and Ilyena have both said Mikhail was once a well-mannered person despite having a temper, he gradually developed a very short and volatile temper, possibly exacerbated by his alcohol and cocaine abuse. This resulted in him becoming extremely violent and making drastic decisions, such as casually ordering Niko to murder his enemies on the spur of the moment. These decisions would eventually be his downfall and lead Dimitri, his closest friend and ally, to order his execution.
Despite his addiction-fueled instability, Mikhail still exhibits signs of his formerly intelligent and perceptive personality. This is highlighted in his strained relationship with Dimitri. Even early into his arc , Mikhail provides perceptive insight to Dimitri's barbituate addiction and his manipulative behaviors, rightfully calling him out as a hypocrite, though his erratic and intoxicated behavior makes this hard to notice. Even in his final moments , Mikhail correctly deduced that Dimitri had betrayed him and was likely to betray Niko as well . Mikhail has also frequently mentioned an appraisal for loyalty and a disdain for those that break it, suggesting even he retains some sense of honor.
In Crime and Punishment , Roman Bellic described Faustin as a psychopath. This seems to be more of an uninformed accusation than fact, as Mikhail does not appear as such, rather just mentally unstable due to his vices.
2002 - Possession Stolen Property
- Exploited a loophole in the immigration treaty to gain US residency in the mid 90's. - Believed to have taken control of Russian Organized Crime in Hove Beach area. - Several legitimate business interests including his cabaret club, Perestroika.
Vladimir "Vlad" Glebov (Russian: Владимир Глебов ) is a quaternary antagonist in Grand Theft Auto IV , appearing as the first antagonist in the first half of the storyline and a cameo character in The Lost and Damned .
He is voiced by Misha Kuznetsov .
Vlad was a senior member of the Faustin Family operating in Hove Beach , a community in Liberty City with predominantly Eastern European residents. He made his income from loan sharking and racketeering in Broker , initially targeting weak Russians to intimidate. He was the owner of Comrades Bar , where he often carried out orders to those he employed. Vlad was also a frequent cocaine user, which was usually supplied to him by his boss, Mikhail Faustin .
Vladimir Glebov was born circa 1967 in the Soviet Union. His early life during his childhood and adolescence is unknown, although it is stated that he has a sister. During the late-1980s, Vlad affiliated himself with two Russian mobsters: Mikhail Faustin and Dimitri Rascalov , and possibly served in Faustin's organization as an enforcer for a while.
In the late-1990s, the Faustin Bratva relocated to the United States of America , settling into the Hove Beach neighborhood of Liberty City . Vlad purchased and began operating in Comrades Bar, where he regularly held meetings with his associates. During his time in Liberty City, Vlad had become a high-ranked member of the organization, working as the Mafia's debt collector.
He was arrested in 2002 for public nudity, again in 2003 for sexual assault, and once more in 2004 for extortion.
In 2005 , Vlad met a man named Roman Bellic who was in a large amount of debt from gambling. Roman borrowed money from Vlad, but was unable to pay him back for a while. Roman's girlfriend, Mallorie Bardas began having sex with Vlad to prevent Roman from being hurt for not being able to pay his debts.
Vlad and his crew protected Roman from Dardan Petrela and Bledar Morina , two Albanian loan sharks that he was also indebted to.
At an unknown point in time, Vlad began using cocaine, eventually becoming addicted to it.
Sometime in 2008 , Roman's cousin Niko moved to Liberty City; Vlad took an interest in Niko's ability to fight and forced him into paying off Roman's debts by participating in illicit activities. Vlad sent Niko to collect protection money from a Chinese shopkeeper, and later from a man named Muscovski , who owned a laundrette. Shortly after that, Niko stole a Blista Compact from a client called Jimmy , who refused to pay off his debt to Mikhail.
Ivan Bytchkov somehow angered Mikhail, and Vlad was ordered to take care of the situation. Niko was sent to kill Ivan, whom he can choose to spare. The latter option causes Ivan to appear in a random encounter in Alderney later on. Niko calls Vlad after the mission and claims to have killed Ivan, where Vlad suggests that he's had sex with Mallorie - this frustrates Niko, and he threatens to "break" Vlad if he said it to his face.
Vlad is confronted by Niko at Comrades Bar after it is confirmed that he had been having an affair with Mallorie for the past three years. Following a brief, high-speed car chase across the neighborhood, Niko corners Vlad underneath the Algonquin Bridge . Vlad curses Niko for throwing his life away over Mallorie and threatens him that his boss Mikhail Faustin will most certainly track him and Roman down. Niko ignores the threat and shoots Vlad in the face, killing him instantly.
A shocked Roman argues with Niko over Vlad's killing and that they are going to be marked for death; Niko in turn talks about his experience in the war. Afterwards, Roman leaves and Niko dumps Vlad's corpse in the Humboldt River . Although Vlad's corpse isn't recovered, the news over his death quickly spread and true to his final words, Niko and Roman are kidnapped by Faustin.
Quite ironically, however, Mikhail decides to employ Niko and admits that he thought Vlad was an idiot, and claims that the only reason he kept Vlad employed was because he was having an affair with Vlad's sister.
Before Faustin and his men are killed by Niko later on at the Perestroika Club as part of a deal between Dimitri Rascalov and Kenny Petrovic for ordering Lenny Petrovic 's death, he tells Niko that Dimitri is a treacherous rat and that he saved Niko's life because it was Dimitri, who insisted that Niko be killed for murdering Vlad in the first place.
The final mention of Vlad is after the events of Weekend at Florian's . Mallorie calls Niko, saying that Roman confessed to her that he killed Vlad himself, and thanks Niko for helping him get rid of Vlad's body. Niko replies saying that the story is true and that Roman is "an old school romantic".
Vlad's body appears to have never been found, as the LCPD database lists him as "missing". This is further backed up by Ivan if he is spared.
Vlad is a bully with a short temper who shows little respect for anyone he comes across while also demanding an unreasonable amount of respect in return. As a debt collector, he instinctively threatens those who have not repaid him with violence, although he has enough self-control to not kill his debtors.
Nonetheless, he has a certain degree of charm which he uses to impress and seduce Mallorie Bardas , although this may have been due to her wanting to protect Roman from further physical harm as opposed to any liking for Vlad. Above all, Vlad is very arrogant and has an inflated sense of self-worth, as Faustin does not avenge his death, saying he only kept Vlad around so he could have sex with Vlad's sister.
2003 - Sexual Assault
- Owner of Comrades Bar in Hove Beach. - Connections with Mikhail Faustin and Dimitri Rascalov.
Trey Stewart , better known as Playboy X , is a main character in Grand Theft Auto IV and a minor character in The Lost and Damned .
He is portrayed by Postell Pringle .
Playboy is the head of crack cocaine distribution in northern Algonquin , Liberty City .
Trey Stewart was born c. c. circa 1983 in North Holland, Liberty City. He was once very book smart as a child (in later years he would refrain from this positive work ethic) when he was eight or nine, he became close to the neighborhood's biggest drug lord, Dwayne Forge , who treated Stewart like a son and taught him how to sell drugs. Dwayne states that Playboy was always a bright kid, but he had no street knowledge, so Dwayne taught him the rules of the game. When Dwayne was arrested, Stewart became the head of Dwayne's business interests. Playboy X was previously a small-time dealer, also robbing people for some time before taking over the cocaine empire and bringing it to new heights.
Under Playboy's leadership and rejecting Dwayne's old-fashioned views, the empire went from being exclusively about drugs to expanding into other realms of (even legitimate) business. Still having the most success in drug sales, he became friends with Elizabeta Torres and monitored all drug deals in the city. After 2004, he stopped visiting Dwayne in prison, and being at a selfish point in his life, probably bought his yellow Patriot within a year or two of that date.
Eventually in 2008 , Playboy X was introduced to Niko Bellic through a heroin deal and the two began a business relationship. Playboy X also makes a brief appearance in The Lost and Damned where Playboy refuses to meet Johnny Klebitz during the party.
Expanding into other businesses, Playboy even dreamed of leaving crime behind entirely to become a legitimate real estate developer and "see my name in big, gold letters!". He also explains his resolve to give money to poor young blacks and schools after he's wealthy to atone for selling drugs to children (although his penthouse and luxury car insinuate that he's already quite wealthy). He sought to win over Yusuf Amir , a billionaire property developer from Dubai. Amir was under intense pressure to cooperate with the Mafia, who had shut down his construction site under the guise of a union strike in order to extort funds from him. X believed he could maneuver himself into Amir's favor by employing Niko to dispatch the mob gunmen besieging the site. Niko vacated the site in Playboy X's mission " Deconstruction for Beginners ", but Amir was unresponsive. Instead of rewarding X with shares in lucrative construction contracts, he permanently closed down the construction site in memory of those who had died. It is revealed in The Ballad of Gay Tony mission " For the Man Who Has Everything " that Amir continued construction on the soon-to-be Amir Towers.
Later, Niko was sent by X to exterminate Marlon Bridges . X also gave him a Whiz Wireless Cellphone to keep and so that X could assist Niko in the job, as it requires Niko to send an MMS which his second-hand Badger phone given to him by his cousin Roman is incapable of doing as it does not have a camera.
Eventually, Dwayne is released from prison and tensions rise between him and X almost immediately. Playboy ignores Forge and attempts to distance himself from his former mentor, leaving Forge feeling bitter, heartbroken and betrayed. Playboy is still the Boss of the North Holland Hustlers , as eventually Forge retakes his former base of operations, the Triangle Club , from associates of Playboy's, the Trunchez Brothers . Playboy is furious and it is clear that the bad blood between the former partners is going to come to a head.
Playboy X has a private conversation with Niko, claiming that Forge is talking behind his back and attempting to usurp leadership from him, even though he claims he offered half of the business to Forge. Though apparently very saddened by having to kill his mentor, he offers Niko $25,000 to kill Dwayne. Subsequently, Niko is also hired by Dwayne to kill Playboy X after word hits the streets that there is a contract out on him.
If Niko chooses to kill Dwayne, Playboy has a change of heart, seemingly upset that his "father figure" was killed. Presumably in denial, he blames Niko's cold-heartedness for the betrayal and although he pays Niko the $25,000 as agreed and wishes him the best, he cuts all ties with Niko and claims that he cannot be friends with him knowing he killed Dwayne. Later, his answering machine even claims that "you don't know what you got until it's gone."
If Niko chooses to kill Playboy, he shoots his way through Playboy's penthouse and corners him in an alleyway, easily executing him by shooting him in the throat, and thus, returning control of the North Holland Hustlers gang to Forge. As a token of his appreciation, Dwayne gives Playboy's penthouse (which he reveals he had the deed to all along) to Niko.
Playboy presents himself as an altruist who one day seeks to help the poor in his community. However, his actions and even his words prove that he is a materialistic hypocrite, as he states in his introductory mission: "If a deal make paper, I do it." His missions consist solely of him chasing more wealth to seemingly do nothing with, while he touts that he is still the same young hustler from his youth, unchanged by money. Despite this, he heavily values connections and treats his peers as tools and means to an end rather than valued friends, as he treats Elizabeta as a mere business partner with a great deal of hookups, ignores Dwayne after the latter's imprisonment and resulting loss of usefulness to him, and discards Niko as a partner should the player kill Dwayne instead of him. Ironically, this last example is the only time when Playboy seems to value someone (or more accurately, their memory) for more than business connections.
In his youth, Playboy was quite book smart, although by the events of GTA IV , this has clearly changed, as he claims Jesus Christ killed John the Baptist and that he and Yusuf Amir might be cousins simply because he believes Dubai is in Africa, which Niko quickly refutes on both occasions only for Playboy to ignore him. He also appears rather cowardly, as he prefers to simply hear and oversee drug deals and other dangerous situations as opposed to actually taking part in them. This can be seen in all of the missions he appears in, as he hides and blind fires in the only mission he is in a firefight , and has Niko do his dirty work in the other ones. If the player chooses to kill him, his cowardice can be seen even more prominently, as he quickly abandons his fellow gang members and even drops his weapon once cornered.
- Part of Dwayne Forge's crack cocaine dealing operation. - Assumed control after Forge's conviction. - Believed to have run the business with advice from Forge in prison. - Reported that Stewart stopped visiting Forge at the penitentiary in 2004. - Now believed to be head of a cocaine distribution network in North Holland.
Dwayne Forge is a main character and an optional friend in Grand Theft Auto IV .
He is voiced by Devin Richards .
Dwayne was born c. c. circa 1973 in North Holland , Liberty City . He grew up in the Westminster Towers , a notoriously violent and drug-infested housing project in North Holland. His father was an illiterate, violent pimp and drug dealer who regularly beat both Dwayne and his mother . He would tell Dwayne in a harsh voice: "Expect the worst, then you can only be pleasantly surprised" before beating him, accounting for his melancholic outlook on life. His mother was his primary caregiver, who he thought highly of, saying she "tried so hard" to please his father, who often beat her. On one occasion, she bought him some golf clubs because a friend of his had some and it seemed "sophisticated", but he instead broke the clubs over her back. His father was killed on his doorstep when he tried to rip off other drug dealers in the neighborhood. Dwayne says that he "felt nothing" when his father was murdered, even saying he was "glad". Dwayne aspired to be a police officer as a child but says he could not read well enough and that the LCPD discriminated against black police officers in the 1980s. At one point, he was homeless, unable to get a job without full education. From there, Dwayne reflected on his only marketable skills, stating "I could add up and I could scare people, so I started slingin' dope."
Between 1988 and 1999, Dwayne ran a crack cocaine empire. Dwayne claimed that he made $50,000 per week and "had apartments full of money - entire apartments stuffed with bank notes!" Because of his connections, Dwayne had purer product than anybody in Algonquin at that time. He was living the dream as a teenager, riding high as a drug lord. However, with his new success also came problems. A lot of people were jealous of Dwayne because of his fast money and street fame. This caused Dwayne to constantly seem very distant and to only remain close to a few people. Two of those people closest to him were his girlfriend Cherise Glover , who he describes as "the love of my fucking life", and Trey Stewart , also known as Playboy X, his prodigy. Despite his immense wealth, Dwayne states that he was miserable, feeling paranoid and angry - possibly due to the jealousy of others. Dwayne stated that he wanted to start a family and have children but believed his drug dealing past and stint in prison had prevented it. Dwayne also invested in the adult entertainment sector and bought The Triangle Club in Bohan , and a couple of pornography shops in Liberty City and Alderney City .
In the late-1990s, following a tip from an informant, Jayvon Simson (who would also steal his girlfriend in the next few years), Dwayne was arrested and sent to prison. Dwayne ran the gang from prison at first, also providing for his girlfriend Cherise, giving her "cars, houses, apartments, bank accounts, everything!" whilst inside. He states that during his time in prison, he underwent therapy and was placed on suicide watch for much of his prison sentence, continuing to express some suicidal thoughts when released. Upon reflecting, Dwayne harbors mixed feelings about his former drug empire, he states that "it was sort of fun, and sort of like living in hell; seeing your old school mates turn into zombies, and knowing they was going to be your best customers". He admits that he knew what he was doing was wrong but felt like he didn't have a choice due to his lack of money and education.
Playboy X assumed leadership of the empire around this time, as many gangs matured from solely crack sales to wider drug sales, other organized crime and even legitimate venues such as the music and real estate industries. Playboy last visited Dwayne in prison in 2004, no longer having any interest in running with him. During this time, the Triangle Club was taken over by the Trunchez brothers . Dwayne states that when he was arrested, the authorities offered him various deals in exchange for information on other dealers. Dwayne refused, saying that when he dies, he can "meet his maker knowing that he never ratted anybody out".
In 2008 , Dwayne is released from prison and immediately goes to see Playboy at his penthouse. He talks to him and Niko Bellic in the mission Deconstruction for Beginners , where Playboy patronizes him. He then begins paying Niko to appease Dwayne by working for him, but Niko genuinely connects with Dwayne, as they both experienced hardship and developed a cynical outlook on life and distrust for others.
With Niko's help, Dwayne gradually begins to rebuild his life. He asks him to kill Jayvon Simson , the man who stole Dwayne's money and took his girlfriend Cherise . Niko finds him and Cherise, and the player has the choice of killing or sparing her before chasing and murdering Jayvon. Niko meets up with Dwayne at Cluckin' Bell and gives him the money back.
Later, Dwayne tells Niko about his former gentleman's club, The Triangle Club, which was taken over by the Trunchez brothers. Niko goes to the club and kills the Trunchez brothers, allowing Dwayne to reclaim control of the club. This angers Playboy X due to the Trunchez brothers being business associates of his.
However, Dwayne also begins to trash talk him, and Dwayne's re-acquisition of the club conflicts further with Playboy's business interests. Dwayne knew the effect that this would have on him, doing it anyway out of passive-aggressive anger for turning his back on him. According to Playboy, he offered Dwayne half of his old gang back and he did not accept the offer, likely insulted as he founded the gang and taught him the business. However, given Playboy's greedy nature, there's also the likely possibility that he was lying, planning to preserve the business solely to himself.
Niko is subsequently hired by both men to assassinate one another in the mission The Holland Play . Niko must choose whether to kill Dwayne or Playboy X.
If Niko chooses to kill Dwayne, Niko will respectfully tell him that it's "nothing personal." Dwayne accepts his fate in sorrow, turning his back to Niko and calling him "Fake, just like the rest of them!" Niko then shoots him in the back of the head while turned away, killing him with visible regret. Playboy pays Niko, but, in apparent denial, calls him "cold" for assassinating his old mentor, and the pair never speak again.
If Niko chooses to kill Playboy, Niko will arrive at his penthouse to kill him. When Niko is telling Playboy that he didn't change the game, he executes Playboy by shooting him in the neck, saying that the game changed him. Dwayne takes over the North Holland Hustlers once again and gives Playboy's penthouse to Niko, revealing that he had the deed to it all along and that Niko should have it, saying that him living in it would remind him too much of Playboy, who he states he "should have kept a closer eye on". He can also become a friend , and if his friendship's "like" percentage is raised high enough, he will send two gangsters as bodyguards if Niko needs backup. If Niko and Dwayne get drunk during a friendship activity, Dwayne may claim that he killed Playboy because he was too jealous of his success.
Dwayne is a dark-skinned bald man in his mid-30s of an average large build, sports a black full beard and dark brown eyes. He wears a black leather jacket over a white shirt, with dark blue almost stonewashed jeans held up by a brown leather belt and wears sand-colored boots.
During their friendship activities, Dwayne tells Niko about his life and at first presents very negative outlooks, reflecting his squalid living conditions and isolation after his release from prison. At this time, he describes himself as having forgotten how to care about life, showing his depression and nihilism. However, after enough activities with Niko, Dwayne begins to act more positively and after Niko himself tells him to stop complaining and try to enjoy life, Dwayne finally begins to share some positive outlooks and hopes with Niko.
Despite being a drug dealer, Dwayne often shows signs of moral integrity, extreme kindness, and altruism, especially to those closest to him. While incarcerated he pulled favors to make sure that his girlfriend on the outside was looked after and taken care of, even going as far to lavish her with cars and apartments and bank accounts while simultaneously not taking deals from law enforcement which would have betrayed his allies. Dwayne took in Playboy X and served as a father figure to him, teaching him how to sell drugs and helping him build a criminal empire. If Niko chooses to kill Playboy X, Dwayne shows genuine sadness over his death, lamenting that he was "a good kid back in the day".
Dwayne appears to like hip-hop music, as his favourite radio stations are The Beat 102.7 and The Classics 104.1 . He may also like The Vibe 98.8 , as it plays inside his apartment.
If Dwayne is spared in The Holland Play, he will send Niko an email. If Niko responds positively, he and Dwayne will become friends.
Dwayne is available between 12:00PM and 1:00AM.
The possible activities with Dwayne are: drinking , eating , bowling , or going to a strip club . He likes classy places like the Superstar Café , however still loves Cluckin' Bell . His nightspot preference is Club Liberty in Northwood , Algonquin . He may also be taken to see a show at Split Sides , but this activity can only be done while on an outing with another purpose, as he cannot be called for this purpose, nor will he ever request to be taken to see a show.
Dwayne does not like it if Niko drives too fast. He highly dislikes helicopters, so it is advised not to pick him up with one. However, he likes the NRG 900 very much.
Dwayne's friendship activities do not count towards 100% completion .
Getting Dwayne's 'like' percentage over or equal to 90% counts towards the "Liberty City (5) achievement / trophy if he is spared during The Holland Play.
When Dwayne's 'like' percentage is high enough, he will send two goons to back Niko up when requested. One of them carries a pistol , while the other carries a Micro-SMG . They will stay close to Niko and fire on every hostile enemy.
They will stay with Niko for around 10–15 minutes until he says that he wants to be alone again. If Niko does not drop them off in about a minute they will bail out of the vehicle. If Niko leaves them behind, they will disappear when they get too far away.
1991 - Possession Controlled Substance: Crack Cocaine 1994 - Tax Evasion
- Controlled large patches of territory in East Holland, North Holland, and Bohan. - Business operations now being run by Trey Stewart, street name - Playboy X.
Elizabeta "Liz" Torres is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Lost and Damned .
She is voiced by Charlie Parker .
Elizabeta is a successful and well connected drug dealer in Bohan , employing both Johnny Klebitz and Niko Bellic .
Elizabeta Torres was born c. c. circa 1977 in Puerto Rico , although the LCPD lists her birthplace as South Bohan . In Marta Full of Grace , Elizabeta tells Johnny Klebitz that when she was fourteen years old, she was almost raped by a man in Puerto Rico. In her words, she "fed him his balls". Killing him earned her a dangerous reputation in Puerto Rico and she became feared despite her young age.
In 1991 , at about 14 years of age, Elizabeta moved to Bohan , Liberty City , presumably with her parents. Immediately, Elizabeta started her drug dealing business, and with her contacts in Puerto Rico she became a successful drug baroness. Growing up in Bohan, Elizabeta met Manny Escuela and possibly Mallorie Bardas , whom she may have known prior since they were both born in Puerto Rico. It is likely that Manny and Elizabeta drifted apart soon after, as Manny gained his own reputation as a pacifist and "street cleaner," taking down drug dealers in Bohan, and Elizabeta being exactly what he sought to eradicate, probably led to them going their separate paths.
Between 1991 and 2002 , Elizabeta was arrested six times, twice for possession of crack cocaine (in 1991 and 1993 respectively), once in 1994 for assault and three more times for possession of heroin in 1996 , weapons possession in 2000 and a minor criminal sexual act in 2001 . At some point prior to 2008 she established her drug empire.
Elizabeta is asked by The Lost MC leader Billy Grey to help find buyers for a "big pile of heroin". Around the same time, Elizabeta sends Niko Bellic to protect Patrick McReary during a drug deal. The deal goes sour, forcing Niko to kill the attackers with a sniper rifle.
The Lost M.C. Vice President, Johnny Klebitz , arrives at Elizabeta's home during a house party while she's dancing with Carmen Ortiz and Kay Hartman . She informs Johnny that she found him a buyer and is going to send a new guy from "Eastern Europe somewheres" along with him. Johnny takes a seat and waits for Niko. When Niko arrives she introduces him to Johnny and Playboy X and sends them to oversee the heroin deal with Johnny.
Later, after arguing with Little Jacob over some crooks who stole her cocaine, Elizabeta asks Niko Bellic to retrieve it . Afterward, the police begin a crackdown on Elizabeta's illicit activities for her, which causes her to become increasingly edgy, restless, and paranoid.
During Niko's last visit to Elizabeta, she explains to Niko that she can feel the cops on her, that her bodyguard Jorge turned states, and that everyone's a rat. In her disturbed state, she shoots and kills Manny Escuela and Jay Hamilton when Manny tries to film her as a part of his documentary about cleaning up the streets of Bohan and requests that Niko get rid of the bodies . She then warns Niko to stay away from her, as the LCPD is rapidly closing in on her operation. Niko either gets the bodies to the doctor, destroys the car or dumps it in the water.
Johnny Klebitz later works with Elizabeta, by stealing a van full of cocaine from The Angels of Death . To do this, she also employed Malc and DeSean of the Uptown Riders to ambush the convoy at the tollbooth to Bohan. They were successful, and made away with the drugs. She employs Klebitz again a few days later to pick up Marta , a friend and drug mule from Puerto Rico. She was being arrested by an airport official, but escaped when Klebitz knees the custom's agent in his groin.
She employs Klebitz and the Uptown Riders one last time to sell coke to a couple in Bohan, but the deal goes wrong, with one of the couple shooting Klebitz' Hexer , forcing him to ride with Malc. The police saw this as a terrorist attack, and sent many officers to chase down Klebitz and Malc. They all escape, and Klebitz takes a disabled police cruiser to suffice for a new vehicle. After this, she warns Johnny to stay away from her, as the heat is closing in.
Johnny can call Elizabeta later on and hear her in a frantic state, shouting at Marta to flush some drugs down the toilet, as police are about to raid her home; She tells Johnny that they're alright, laughs somewhat hysterically, and hangs up. Mallorie also calls Niko and tells him about her being arrested.
Shortly afterwards, Elizabeta enters police custody. According to Weazel News , Liberty Tree reports, and radio news, she is sentenced to 300 years (effectively a life sentence) of imprisonment for thirty charges (ten years each) of cocaine distribution, a new record in the Liberty City crime society. [ 1 ] This happens at around the same time as the deal between Niko, Packie, Luis and Gay Tony . The trial likely happened while Niko was working for Ray Boccino and the McReary Family .
Elizabeta Torres' car is a unique white and pink Voodoo , which can only be obtained during the mission " Have a Heart ".
1993 - Possession Controlled Substance: Crack Cocaine 1994 - Assault 1996 - Possession Controlled Substance: Heroin 2000 - Criminal Possession Weapon
- Believed to be involved in the sale of large quantities of cocaine, marijuana, mdma, and ecstasy to street distributors.
Raymond "Ray" Boccino [ 1 ] is a main character in Grand Theft Auto IV and the secondary antagonist in The Lost and Damned .
He is portrayed by Joe Barbara .
Ray is a capo working for the Pegorino Crime Family . He is also a major character in the diamond dealing in Liberty City , along with Johnny Klebitz and Niko Bellic , and is therefore responsible for a number of the crossover missions concerning the diamonds.
Ray Boccino was born in 1976 in Westdyke , Alderney . He is of Italian ancestry.
His criminal record stretches back to 1990 , when he was arrested at the age of 14 for possession of stolen property.
Little else is known about Boccino's background, except for his rivalry with Phil Bell , who is even accused by Ray of working with the federal government.
Jimmy Pegorino has a negative opinion on Ray due to his inability to bring his operations to fruition (including the issue with the diamonds) and states in Pegorino's Pride that he doubts that Ray will ever make it to the level he wants to reach due to his greed (it is possible that Ray wants to officially become Pegorino's right-hand-man, or one day become the boss of the organization). Ray is often mentioned in conversations between Phil Bell and Pegorino, and Niko even blames Ray for the diamond issue because of his poor planning and the amount of people he would get involved. Ray's greed, selfishness, and corruption would eventually lead to his death .
Boccino is based at Drusilla's restaurant in Little Italy , Algonquin .
Boccino is first introduced chronologically while speaking to Billy Grey in The Lost MC Clubhouse after selling firearms to the gang. He becomes acquainted with Johnny Klebitz before leaving.
Pegorino regularly orders Ray to host operations in Algonquin. Ray often comes up with schemes to steal businesses from the Ancelotti Crime Family and the Liberty City Triads in order to spread more Pegorino Family influence through Liberty City. He hires the McRearys and Niko Bellic to do several jobs for the Pegorinos, such as stealing cloned medication from one of the Triad families ' warehouse in Fishmarket North , stealing an Ancelotti pay-off , crippling the Ancelotti's alliance with the Albanian mob , and killing Ancelotti capo Frankie Garone .
Later on, during The Lost MC 's civil war , Brian Jeremy contacts Ray regarding Johnny Klebitz. Brian conspires against Johnny and wants Ray to help him annihilate Johnny's faction of the motorcycle club. Ray favors Johnny however, considering him as a much better businessman than Brian (due to the latter's irrational devotion to the imprisoned Billy Grey). Ray reveals Brian's whereabouts to Johnny so that business between him and The Lost can resume as usual.
Afterwards, Ray hires Niko to kill Teddy Benavidez , as Benavidez owes Ray money which he has not repaid.
Ray eventually becomes aware that very valuable diamonds are going to be sold to nightclub empresario Tony Prince in East Hook . Ray believes he could make a lot of money from selling the diamonds, and plots to steal them. Through his contact with Ashley Butler (with whom he was presumably having an affair), Ray hires Johnny and The Lost to steal the diamonds .
Johnny successfully steals the diamonds, and Ray orders him to stash them in two separate sets of trash bags located in different areas in Algonquin. Immediately after the diamonds are stashed, Ray orders Niko to assist members of his crew ( Joseph DiLeo , Johnny Barbosa , and Luca Silvestri ) to collect them. It is later discovered that DiLeo, Barbosa and Silvestri planned to take the diamonds for themselves and flee to Las Venturas ; Ray sends Niko to retrieve them. Niko kills Luca and his crew before meeting Ray in Middle Park , where he gives him the diamonds.
Later, Ray sends Niko and Johnny to The Libertonian to sell the diamonds to Jewish Mob associates Issac Roth and Mori Green , however they are attacked by Tony Prince's bodyguard Luis Lopez , who steals the diamonds.
In the confusion of the ambush, Johnny takes all of the money in a panic, and Niko is left with nothing. Niko contacts Ray to inform him of the ambush, and that Johnny has stolen the money, but isn't sure where the diamonds are. Johnny had given the money to fellow Lost MC member Jim Fitzgerald for safe keeping. Ray immediately questions Johnny about the money, and Johnny denies that he took it.
A short time later, Ray correctly believes that Johnny took the money; he has Fitzgerald kidnapped and tortured for information in the basement of Drusilla's. Ray uses Jim's cellphone to text Johnny and lure him to Drusilla's.
After a brief argument between Ray and Johnny, Jim executes Ray's henchman and escapes alongside Johnny.
Ray is quick to react – he hires Niko to find and eliminate Jim, and sends his own men to hunt for Johnny (Johnny survives the attack, and kills all of Ray's hitmen, but Niko succeeds in killing Jim).
Ashley later tells Johnny that Ray has managed to kill Jim (unbeknownst to Johnny, Niko is the one who killed him). Johnny wants to get revenge, but is told not to by Congressman Thomas Stubbs , because the whole Pegorino syndicate are under surveillance and that half of the organization would be "either dead or inside within a month or so."
Later, Isaac Roth begins to blame the ambushed diamond deal on Boccino and threatens to have him killed. In retaliation, Boccino again orders Niko to murder Roth (as well as his two henchmen) at Roth's penthouse within the Majestic Hotel . Afterwards, Boccino arranges an apartment in Alderney City for Niko so he can can "keep a closer eye on him". Niko refuses to do anymore work for Boccino from this point on. Before or after this mission, Ray will give Niko Bellic what he promised him in Museum Piece ; the location of Florian Cravic (though Niko ends up sparing him as he realizes that he is not the target).
Ray makes a brief cameo in the opening cutscenes of Phil Bell's and Jimmy Pegorino's first missions . He also tells Niko that he made the introduction (though Niko will once again say that he is not connected to Ray). He is often brought up in conversations with Pegorino and Phil – in fact, in Pegorino's first mission, Niko will comment that Ray's poor planning and the amount of people (Luca's crew and Isaac) he trusted are to blame for his failure to get the diamonds. Ray can also be called after Payback , I'll Take Her and Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend (provided that he hasn't been murdered yet). Interestingly, Ray will later call Niko telling him he knows that Tony Prince has the diamonds and asks him to steal them. Niko, avoiding what would've been a significant plot development in both GTA IV and The Ballad of Gay Tony , refuses.
Ray defending himself from Niko.
Later in the game, as the Pegorino family's affairs fall further into turmoil, Jimmy Pegorino decides to send a message to any possible informants in the organization and orders Niko to kill Boccino, believing that he has snitched on the family. After leaving a sit-down in East Holland , he and his bodyguards head to an auto shop in BOABO . Seeing the opportunity, Pegorino tells the convoy to stop for gas on the way so Niko can ambush them (however, it is ultimately up to the player how they wish to proceed with the hit). Regardless, Boccino and his men are killed on the way to the auto shop.
Ray is an extremely greedy character, trying to find deals and jobs that are worth a lot of money for personal gain. He works with many thugs and mobsters, like the Irish Mob, in order to be favored by Jimmy Pegorino, trying to please him with every way he knows. He is, however, distrusted by most of his associates (and by Jimmy Pegorino himself) due to his greed.
Despite this, Ray is never confirmed on-screen to be willing to betray his associates for his own ends. In fact, the opposite is true; although his associates speak of him warily, Ray finds himself betrayed by his own cohorts several times. Luca Silvestri and his crew kept the diamonds they stole for themselves, Johnny Klebitz steals his profit during the diamond fiasco, Isaac Roth plans a hit on him for believing that he set up the ambush, and it is ironically his boss Jimmy Pegorino that orders his final fate on suspicion alone, with Niko Bellic being the one who takes him down.
Ray is also known to have an explosive temper, at some point in his past throwing a man stealing money from him and his waste management business in a trash compactor after nearly beating him to death.
1991 - Grand Larceny 1995 - Hijacking
- Believed to be expanding operations into Algonquin. - Involved in criminal activities outside the Syndicate. - Believed to handle Jimmy Pegorino's relationship with smaller gangs such as Gerald McReary's crew in Dukes.
Gerald "Gerry" McReary (Irish: Gearalt Mac Ruairí ) (Inmate number 7142858) is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV .
He is voiced by PJ Sosko .
Gerry is the middle child of the McReary family. Gerry was the leader of the Irish Mob , until he got arrested.
Gerald McReary was born c. c. circa 1973 and he is the third son of Maureen McReary and Mr. McReary . He is the younger brother of Derrick and Francis , and the older brother to, Patrick and Kate , would be born during his childhood.
Gerry was always involved in family conflicts with his older brothers, and was also beaten and molested by his father. This violent and abusive environment appears to have hardened Gerry into a bitter and violent drunkard, much like his father. It's also likely the reason why his life of crime began at the startling age of 13 , when he was arrested for grand larceny.
At some point Gerry's father died and he became the leader of the McReary mob, as Derrick left for Ireland , and Francis joined the LCPD.
Gerry made an alliance with the Pegorino crime family Capo Ray Boccino , who used them to weaken the Ancelotti Crime Family .
According to his little brother Patrick, Gerry has been married three times prior to 2008. Patrick also jokes that: "he's been married three times already and won't admit that he likes men".
When Niko first meets Gerry, he is heavily inebriated, making him very capricious. He belittles his brothers and Michael Keane , a friend of the family. Immediately after, he warns Niko to never hurt his family, or he will hurt Niko's.
Later after that mission, he calls Niko saying he has work. Niko comes over to visit a now sober (and less hostile) Gerry. His first mission involved Niko putting a Car Bomb under Anthony Spoleto 's car then detonating it when he reaches a meeting between himself and his Ancelotti crew. Gerry then has Niko disguise himself as an Albanian; wearing the biker jacket he acquired. And wearing that outfit, assassinate Frankie Garone ; the goal of these two missions are to damage the Ancelotti-Albanian relationship and create tensions.
Gerry is arrested for racketeering offenses and is incarcerated in the Alderney State Correctional Facility not much time before the funeral of his brother . Packie mentions that the "charges won't stick", but this is contradicted as there was more evidence against Gerry than they had believed. After the funeral , he has Niko visit the prison to tell him to kidnap Gracie Ancelotti (he then needs to take a picture of her with his Whiz mobile phone). Afterwards, Gerry has Niko transfer Gracie from one safehouse to another because Luis and Tony found her .
Then, he gives Niko his final mission . This mission has Niko Bellic and Packie McReary swap Gracie for the Diamonds held by Luis Lopez and Tony Prince . At the exchange, Gracie is successfully returned; unfortunately, Ray Bulgarin and his men disrupt the deal. Luis, Tony and Gracie escape the scene and the guy who chased him. Unfortunately, one of his men stole the Diamonds; when Niko and Packie cornered him after taking out the others, he threw the Diamonds in a truck . Gerry bids Niko farewell and reveals he will be in prison for a long time, potentially up to fifty years, before asking Niko to keep an eye on his family for him.
Gerry appears to have a violent temper. During Waste Not Want Knots Packie dares Gordon to criticize the McReary stories to Gerry's face; in the ending cutscene for Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend Packie confesses to Niko that he's still worried about Gerry's reaction to the failure of the deal, despite his brother being in prison. Gerry also threatens Niko during their first encounter, though he later mellows and becomes more trusting of Niko; even asking Niko to look after his family should he end up incarcerated.
1990 - Assault 1992 - Armed Robbery and Hijacking 1999 - Conspiracy to Commit Extortion
- Worked with Algonquin based crime syndicates but now affiliated with Jimmy Pegorino's Alderney mob. - More hands-off approach recently, leaving hijackings and armed robberies to his younger brother, Patrick McReary - street name Packie.
[[Category:Mission givers]
Phil Bell is a main character in Grand Theft Auto IV .
He is portrayed by Frankie "The Butcher" Bonsangue .
Phil Bell was a close associate of Alderney 's Pegorino Crime Family . He was seen as a consigliere figure to Don Jimmy Pegorino . He was a friend of Pegorino crime family captain Ray Boccino , even though they both almost constantly argued and disagreed. Bell wasn't a made-man as he is only 10% Italian, and most of his family originated from Ireland .
Phil Bell was born c. c. circa 1967 in Alderney City . He is mostly of Irish ancestry, with small Italian heritage, though he acts as if he was a full Italian, probably to fit in with his fellow mafioso. In 1984 , at age of 17, he was arrested for trying to steal a car.
Phil was arrested in 1988 and 1990 for promoting gambling and manslaughter respectively. Phil had likely joined the Pegorino Family by then; Jimmy Pegorino says in Pegorino's Pride that Phil is a long-time trusted business partner of his. He also says that he wishes to promote Phil, but worries whether it will offend The Commission , who often discriminate against non-Italians. He was previously married and has at least two children, but is now involved in a court battle with his ex-wife over custody of their children.
Phil maintains that he is a legitimate businessman, managing construction yards and the Pegorino-owned Honker's Gentlemen's Club based in Tudor . The authorities have his places of business bugged, so he speaks in generalities which will not implicate him in anything, and is especially cautious with his planning. He and fellow Pegorino capo Ray Boccino secretly hate each other, because Phil believes "every move he makes is so obvious, it's disgusting to see him trying to sleaze his way up the ladder". Ray is also much more ambitious and even selfish, while Phil believes that "there ain't much in this life you got control of", which is why he follows Jimmy's orders to the letter, even when he believes it won't work perfectly (as seen in Catch the Wave ). Phil and Jimmy Pegorino's wife Angie are very good friends, causing some to believe they're having an affair. Jimmy doesn't believe the rumors, and has trust in Phil. Phil's role within the Pegorino family is never clearly stated.
Based on his reactions during the mission Trespass , Phil appears to have a fear of flying.
Phil first meets Niko Bellic after the failed diamonds deal with the Jewish Mob , as the money was stolen by The Lost MC member Johnny Klebitz . Phil tells to both Niko and Ray that Pegorino is angry because of the deal that went wrong. The two then sent Niko to find and kill Johnny's associate Jim Fitzgerald .
After doing some work for Ray, Niko is sent to work for Phil. Niko performs multiple jobs for Phil. During the first job, Niko is asked to hijack a truck loaded with heroin , which must be stolen from a group of Triads . The truck is subsequently hidden in a safe location until the heat dies down. The location is to be guarded by Frankie Gallo , a nephew of Phil.
Later on, Phil and Niko sabotage a cocaine deal that is meant to go down between the Ancelottis and the Russians . One of Phil's men gets hold of a truck that the Russians would be expecting. Phil and Niko get to the boatyard where the deal is meant to occur in said truck; needless to say, they do not manage to fool the Russians, and they must shoot their way out of the boatyard and then escape in the boats loaded with the merchandise. Unfortunately for the Pegorinos, an informant informs Charles Matteo , an important figure within the Ancelottis, about the deeds of the Pegorinos. In order to prevent The Commission from finding out such information, Niko is sent to take down Charles Matteo as he is about to flee by helicopter from an abandoned factory .
After all this, Niko performs one more job for Phil. It is about time to pick up the previously stolen heroin, which got moved in two cars . As they are checking the merchandise, Niko, Phil and Frankie are then surrounded by FIB agents. Realizing that the cars have been watched all along, Phil gets in one car, while Niko and Frankie get in the other. After driving all over Alderney and losing the authorities in the end, Phil and Niko (and additionally Frankie, if he is not killed by the cops) switch to a van , which is parked behind a Pizza This... branch in Westdyke .
Towards the end of the game, the Pegorino Family receives too much police attention, leading Jimmy to believe the family has several rats. He contemplates which one of his capos he should kill – Phil and Ray each secretly suggest to Pegorino that the other should be killed. Jimmy eventually decides to kill Ray. At the very end, whether Deal or Revenge is chosen, Phil chooses to leave organized crime for good in favor of a simple life in a small town. In the Deal ending, after all the mess of the exchange with Dimitri Rascalov , he wishes Niko all the best and they part on good terms.
However, if the Revenge ending is chosen, Niko decides not to make the deal with Dimitri and executes him on the Platypus , ruining the Pegorinos in the process. Afterwards, Phil calls Niko. Phil is not angry, and even supports his decision, stating (correctly, as proven by choosing Deal) that Dimitri always gave him a bad feeling. Phil, however, tells him that he can't see him again, as it would cause problems and the two respectfully part ways.
Phil Bell may be based on Henry Hill from the film Goodfellas . They are both Irish-Italians who can't become high ranking members due to their Irish ancestry. In the opening cutscene for Catch the Wave, Phil asks Niko if he's seen a surveillance helicopter, which is a reference to a scene from the movie.
1988 - Promoting Gambling 1990 - Manslaughter
- Not believed to be a "made" member of the Mafia because of he is of mixed Irish / Italian ancestry. - Careful about wiretaps and other forms of surveillance.
Jon Gravelli is a main character in Grand Theft Auto IV . He is also mentioned briefly in Grand Theft Auto V .
He is voiced by Madison Arnold .
Gravelli was the Don of the Gambetti Crime Family in Liberty City from 1978 until his death in 2008 .
Gravelli was born in Meadow Hills , Dukes , Liberty City c. c. circa 1923 . It is likely that he was some way affiliated with a Dukes based Mafia regime since the age of 12, given his awareness of a rival organization, the Ancelotti Crime Family . His criminal record dates back to 1940 , when he was arrested at the age of seventeen for possession of gambling records.
He continued to participate in minor and rigorous criminal activities, having been arrested for grand theft auto, attempted murder, and bribery - though his LCPD record states that he has never been in prison.
His son, Jon Gravelli, Jr. , was born in 1968 , and he grew up to become an associate within the Gambetti family, presumably working for his father. Gravelli, Jr. soon developed a cocaine addiction however, and was disowned by the family.
In 1972 , Gravelli almost killed Giovanni Ancelotti 's uncle, but decided to spare him, a decision he regretted later.
Gravelli became the boss of the Gambetti Family in 1978 , after the death of Sonny Cangelosi . Under Gravelli's leadership, the Gambettis became the most powerful Italian-American faction in Liberty City.
During the early 1990s, Gravelli was arrested twice, for racketeering and murder and obstruction of justice, although he was acquitted of both charges. Sometime in the late 1990s to the early 2000s, Gravelli started to work with United Liberty Paper company, and befriended one of the company's senior agents .
In 2005 , whilst awaiting trial, Gravelli was admitted to the Schottler Medical Center with a serious illness. He was still awaiting trial in 2006 whilst still hospitalised when he was charged with racketeering.
Gravelli was introduced to Niko Bellic in 2008 via phone through his contact at the United Liberty Paper company, who is referred to as a "mutual friend". Niko was first ordered by Gravelli to provide security for a politician who was wanted dead by Dimitri Rascalov's organization. Niko and the convoy are ambushed on a back street, but they survive the hit. Next, Gravelli sends Niko to kill Kim Young-Guk for running a counterfeiting operation in Gambetti territory.
In Liquidize the Assets , he hired Niko to destroy multiple Ancelotti drug vans, and in return for his efforts, the ULP located Darko Brevic , the man who sold out the military unit he and Niko were members of during the Yugoslav Wars - Brevic was smuggled into Liberty City where he was confronted by Niko, who then chooses either to spare or execute him.
After the completion of the storyline, internet and radio news reports announced that Gravelli died peacefully in his sleep in the hospital at the age of 85.
As the leader of the most powerful mafia family in Liberty City, Gravelli is confident but not arrogant. He understands the limits of the power he obtains illegally and is part of the corrupt system of governance as opposed to against it, as his contacts range from hitmen like Niko, the contact who is implied to be working for the IAA , to the mayor and senators. Gravelli describes himself as "vain", being concerned about his appearance despite his visibly emaciated body, and particularly concerned with his and his family's legacy, saying "if it wasn't me, it would just be someone else. So it might as well be me." He is somewhat patriotic and possibly xenophobic, as he is concerned with criminals of immigrant background like the Russians and Kim Young-Guk disrupting the status quo, and agrees to assist the ULPC contact with stopping the Ancelottis and Russians from working together, as they would create a risk to national security. He may also be homophobic, as he refers to Bernie Crane as a f*****, although this may be because of the language that an elderly man like himself was brought up using, or how "f*****" was considered a more socially acceptable word at the time of the game's release as opposed to any actual homophobic tendencies. It's highly unlikely that it actually matters to him considering his underboss, Roy Zito , is rumored to be homosexual. Perhaps a testament to this is the fact that Zito is so fiercely loyal to his don, it was rumored that when Jon Gravelli had kidney failure, Zito offered him his kidney. Gravelli refused the offer, but Zito cut his kidney out himself and presented it to Gravelli in a bucket of ice.
Above all, Gravelli is as ruthless as one would expect a mafia boss to be. He rewards favors handsomely and treats disrespect and failure harshly.
1942 - Promoting Gambling 1942 - Assault 1944 - Grand theft Auto 1946 - Attempted Murder 1949 - Bribery 1990 - Racketeering and Murder 1992 - Obstruction of Justice
- Indicted several times but never convicted of a serious crime.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Yusuf Amir (Arabic: يوسف أمير ) is the tritagonist in The Ballad of Gay Tony and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online , as part of The Chop Shop update. Prior to his physical debut, he was briefly mentioned in Grand Theft Auto IV .
He is voiced by comedian Omid Djalili .
Yusuf Amir was born in Dubai, UAE to Abdul Amir , an extremely wealthy real estate developer. Throughout his life he seeks to impress his father, a highly conservative businessman who frowns upon Yusuf's life as "a reckless orgy of sex, drugs and spending". He was born wealthy, as he claims to have had a golden train set as a child and got his first Grotti car aged 14. He is also a trained helicopter pilot.
At some point he moved from Dubai to Liberty City to further develop luxury properties. His first project's construction site was locked down by Messina Crime Family construction unions, until Playboy X hired Niko Bellic to kill them all hoping to gain favor with Yusuf. He would not meet with Playboy, instead temporarily shutting down the site and building a memorial for the workers.
He wants to franchise Tony Prince 's nightclub Maisonette 9 , and hires Prince's bodyguard Luis Fernando Lopez as a mercenary.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , Yusuf is only mentioned by Playboy X twice and makes no physical appearance. Playboy's first assignment to protagonist Niko Bellic was taking out the Union Leaders stationed at Yusuf's shut-down construction site , hoping to gain leverage with Yusuf. Niko did so successfully and called Playboy after killing the last Union Leader, and told him that someone will have to hire a clean-up crew to the site before any workers come in. The post-mission Liberty Tree headline said the site was shut down due to severe disagreements with Yusuf. Despite Niko successfully taking them out, Yusuf instead started building a memorial for all the workers who died in accidents . Playboy didn't like this, and told Niko there were other problems to be taken care of. Yusuf is never mentioned again.
Yusuf is first seen at Tony Prince's Maisonette 9 nightclub with two women as Tony and his business partner Luis Fernando Lopez are leaving to attend a business deal in Chinatown . Tony briefly introduces Luis to Yusuf, who greets him. Yusuf offers Luis and Tony to join him for some drinks and cocaine, but Tony refuses, arguing that they have unfinished business. Yusuf reminds Tony that he is still interested in franchising his club.
Soon after the meeting with the Triads in Chinatown goes wrong, Luis receives a phone call from Yusuf, saying Tony gave him his number and wants to talk personally at his luxurious penthouse in Middle Park East about franchising Tony's nightclub.
At the penthouse, Yusuf shows the real estate developments he is planning for Liberty City. He takes a very fast shining to Luis in particular, seeking to impress him with his gold-made possessions. After being convinced by Yusuf, Luis accepts working for him.
Yusuf hires Luis to steal an attack helicopter from a yacht owned by arms dealer and slave trader Frickie Van Hardenburg , to be gifted to his father Abdul Amir . After hearing of Frickie's background, he suggests Luis use their own firepower against him and his terrorist group, which he does. Luis destroys Frickie's yacht, killing him and his men before delivering the helicopter to Yusuf's associate Ahmed Khaleel .
Soon after, Yusuf is seen having a phone call with Ahmed, which is interrupted by a phone call from his father. Luis realizes that all of the money, wealth and material possessions around him aren't really his, but his father's. Undeterred, Yusuf needs Luis to come along with him to somehow legitimize it.
On the way to the meeting with Ahmed and another associate named Tahir Saaed , who is also Ahmed's brother, at the Rotterdam Tower , Yusuf calls him on his phone again. Yusuf begins suspecting something from the way Ahmed is talking to him, so he asks Luis to go up and scope things out. It turns out to be an ambush by the National Office of Security Enforcement (NOOSE). After killing Tahir and fighting the NOOSE agents at the top of the tower, he eventually corners Ahmed at the very top, where Ahmed reveals that he and Tahir wanted to get Yusuf on a wire for NOOSE so that they could take over his business. Ahmed then gives Luis a parachute he was planning to make his escape with, before Luis lunges at Ahmed, who steps back, falling off the spire to his death.
A few days later, Luis returns to Yusuf's penthouse, where he finds him without pants, holding a Gold SMG , and snorting cocaine with a prostitute, Jonelle . Yusuf tells Luis about a NOOSE Tank ( APC ) that he is interested about. Yusuf's father Abdul Amir suddenly enters his penthouse, horrified and ashamed by the scene. Yusuf tries to explain himself, claiming Jonelle and Luis are husband and wife, and Luis is his business partner, and tells them both to leave the penthouse. Shortly after, Yusuf calls Luis telling him to meet him in his Swift helicopter at Star Junction .
Once there, Yusuf provides Luis with an Advanced Sniper with which he needs to free the APC being carried by a Skylift helicopter, steal the APC and deliver it to his construction site once losing the cops.
Yusuf later convinces Luis to help him steal a subway car from the LTA to be converted into a submarine for a Liberty City-themed park in an 11-star underwater hotel and casino in the Persian Gulf. After jumping on a train from an overpass and fighting against several NOOSE agents and attack helicopters for a while, Luis detaches the subway car, allowing Yusuf to steal it with a Skylift.
Soon after Russian mobster Ray Bulgarin finds out Luis and Tony are in possession of some diamonds (which were robbed from him and sold to Tony by a cook ), Bulgarin sends several of his henchmen to kill both Luis and Tony. Luis decides to go alone after Bulgarin and his men in a last effort to save Tony and his club. Upon killing many of Bulgarin's henchmen and destroying their heroin stash at the Funland amusement park, he finds out that Bulgarin is about to leave the country in a plane .
On the way to the airport , Luis gets a phone call from Yusuf Amir, where Luis explains the situation. Yusuf offers to help, but Luis declines. However, upon reaching the Broker - Dukes Expressway , Yusuf appears in his gold Buzzard. Luis follows Yusuf, who destroys any pursuing Russian vehicles with homing missiles. After killing Ray Bulgarin, Luis goes to Meadows Park to meet with Tony, accidentally bumping into a homeless man and making him find the stolen bag of diamonds in the trash nearby.
Tony meets Luis, where the duo make amends. Yusuf arrives and congratulates the duo for "winning", later mentioning that he wants to franchise the clubs. Tony points out that his clubs are more about the people than the style, before Yusuf replies that Tony should "Whip out your dick and piss all over them!"
Yusuf is not seen nor mentioned in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars or Grand Theft Auto V . However, it can be assumed that he did eventually work with Tony and Luis to franchise Maisonette 9 and Hercules internationally or at least throughout America.
While Yusuf did not make any physical appearance in Grand Theft Auto Online prior to the events of The Chop Shop , he is a buyer for the player's vehicle exporting business, as part of the Import/Export update.
Yusuf can purchase a collection comprising of a Roosevelt Valor and a Z-Type from the GTA Online Protagonist under the name "The Sultan of Amir".
Introduced in the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 update, some weapons can be modified with the "Yusuf Amir Luxury Finish", a golden-bronze design, in reference to his extravagant lifestyle and flashy possessions.
Under the name of Amir Group Investments , Yusuf is a buyer for the player's cargo during Special Cargo Sell Missions and Special Orders in Nightclub Sell Goods missions.
In December 2023 , fifteen years after the events of The Ballad of Gay Tony , Yusuf is looking for a new way to expand his luxury car collection. He is interested in vehicles with unique stories behind them – used in movies, celebrity vehicles, etc. He flies to Los Santos , the land of Vinewood celebrities, where he and his young cousin Jamal Amir set up an unlicensed salvage yard business under the name of Red's Auto Parts .
Yusuf hears about a potential investor with "Los Santos in the palm of their hands", the GTA Online Protagonist , who has previously invested in several businesses across the state. After a long search, Yusuf finally gets in contact with the GTA Online Protagonist, and offers them a new profitable business opportunity in the form of a Salvage Yard.
Once the protagonist purchases a Salvage Yard and arrives at the property, Yusuf welcomes them and reveals his plan to acquire luxurious vehicles in Los Santos to be added to his collection in Liberty City. He introduces his cousin Jamal to the GTA Online Protagonist, who will act as a business partner at the property. Jamal uses his connections with wealthy people across the city to get tip-offs on valuable cars from Yusuf's wishlist, before setting up the planning board for each vehicle robbery . Yusuf leaves them to party while they plan the first robbery together.
Once the protagonist acquires the car, Yusuf returns to the Salvage Yard one last time to celebrate with the protagonist and offers them the chance to deliver the car to him for a big payout, or break it down to salvage for parts at a lower price.
The first time the GTA Online Protagonist deliver a vehicle to Yusuf via Terminal , he'll call them and inform them he'll make sure everyone in Liberty City learns of their legends.
In 2025 , one of the luxury cars belonging to his cousin Yusuf is stolen by a criminal under the alias of " Howard Sayer ". As a favor for Yusuf's associate Mr. Faber , the GTA Online Protagonist retrieves the vehicle from the carjacker after a gunfight, and personally delivers the vehicle to Jamal at the Salvage Yard.
Yusuf is a very relaxed and carefree man. He very rarely worries about the problems in his life and is instead very cheerful and hyperactive.
Yusuf likes to use American slang expressions, like "let's bounce" and "fuckin' A", although he doesn't always use them in an appropriate context. He also regularly uses the word "ni**a," though not in an insulting way, despite Luis advising him not to.
Yusuf is used as a plot device to symbolize extreme wealth, materialism, and the temptation for Tony and Luis (especially towards the ending). Unlike Ray Bulgarin , whose character shares some of these themes, Yusuf is a good guy in that he is clearly out to help Tony and Luis, as well as a more light-hearted comic relief.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , however, Playboy X describes Yusuf as a serious and overworked person, most likely due to the character being only partially written at that point.
In The Chop Shop update for GTA Online , he is still his usual self, but his old age and devotion to his business have caused him to be less energetic and less bubbly, as seen when Yusuf offers the GTA Online Protagonist champagne, but the offer is refused. Instead of forcing them to join in on the fun as he did with Luis on occasion, he seemed to respect the player's decision. He is now more concerned about his business enterprises than he used to be about his previous business in Liberty City. Evidently, like his father, he is shown to be a little bit disappointed in his younger cousin Jamal Amir for not showing proper etiquette when meeting with his business associate in the protagonist's garage property, which is reminiscent of how Yusuf was discovered by his father back in Liberty City.
Yusuf is somewhat well known for his lavish, excessive real estate developments. Despite being an ideal candidate for I'm Rich , he does not seem to be famous outside circles of architecture or real estate buffs. His developments include:
Yusuf lives is an ultra-luxury two story penthouse located in Middle Park East , filled with his collection of gold-plated items. These include a cell phone , an Uzi , and a scale model of Algonquin, among others. It also includes arcade machines , a big screen television (showing the end credits of GTA IV ), and a unique flame painted Lycan (inaccessible to the player). He refers to a billion dollars as "chump change" when talking to a real estate businessman (mentioning that it can't even buy a million dollars), also telling Luis in " Caught With Your Pants Down ," "If only my father gave me a few billion I could really call my own, then maybe I would grow up." In a conversation with his father during " High Dive ," he refers to $10 million as, "maybe a little bit too much to spend in a month, but it was necessary!" In a photo attached to a newspaper article about Yusuf, he is pictured beside a black Infernus with a black Maverick helicopter in the background. This picture was taken outside a house in Northern Alderney , suggesting either that he also owns this house in addition to his penthouse apartment, or that Rockstar had originally planned to have him live there.
Yusuf is a common given name in Arabic countries. It is the Arabic variation of Joseph, and its meaning is, "God will add," rather fitting Yusuf's ambitious nature. The definition of Amir, in Arabic, is prince, or commander. Also, Amir, when pronounced as “Ameer”, which means “rich”, is also a hint that he is rich.
Mori Kibbutz (Hebrew: מורי קיבוץ) is a main character in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
He is voiced by Jeff Gurner .
Mori is a fitness enthusiast, business entrepreneur and the older brother of Brucie Kibbutz .
According to Mori, he got bald at age 19, joined the Israeli military at age 18, finished after three years when he was 21, and proceeded to be accepted to two Ivy League colleges in which he studied for an MBA (normally a two-to-three year program) and received 4.0s.
He then invested in real estate and other fields, making him quite wealthy. He ridicules Brucie for not doing as well in real estate, mockingly asking him how much he paid for his garage , and how much it is currently worth. He also continued as a fitness enthusiast, having significantly more defined muscle mass than his brother (which he claims he achieved naturally), as well as an obviously fake spray tan.
Mori is one of the many people who lent money to Tony Prince and believes he owns him. Luis Lopez is forced to work with Mori for some time and witnesses his harshness towards his younger brother, who Luis tries to defend, which causes Mori to harass them both, giving Luis a strong dislike towards him. First he helps Mori take care of some dealers down in the Bohan docks .
Tired of Mori's constant bragging, Luis defeats Mori in a high-profile, private vehicle triathlon , gambling the elimination of Tony's debt versus ownership of the club and Luis' services, and the defeated Mori, completely submerged in cocky denial, claims that he wanted Luis to win.
Eventually, after a car theft and drag race the trio commits, Luis encourages Brucie to stand up to Mori, who berates Brucie until he loses his temper and breaks his older brother's nose. Dropping his tough guy persona, Mori breaks down and cries, while Brucie pleads with him not to tell their mother, which he agrees to. Later, he is seen in the end credits , sparring with Brucie in the L.C Fight Club without being overly violent towards him.
After the game's events, Mori calls Luis with a profound apology for his attitude, saying he has found "enlightenment" and moved to a real Kibbutz (lit. a traditional Jewish community in Israel, based around farming for self-sustenance). However, it is revealed that he has subverted the values of sharing among the commune, calling it "communism" (i.e. of a commune) and seems to be running it for profit, so much as to deny food to an old man until he finishes working. After the call, he is removed from Luis' cell phone.
Mori believes that he is superior to everyone else, including his brother, whom he humiliates and bullies on a constant basis. Mori is notably short in height, and it is strongly suggested (sometimes outright stated) that he suffers from a severe Napoleon complex .
Anthony "Tony" Prince , also known as Gay Tony , is a minor character in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Lost and Damned , the titular deuteragonist of The Ballad of Gay Tony , and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online introduced in the After Hours update.
He is portrayed by D.B. Cooper .
Tony is a nightclub entrepreneur in Liberty City , as well as the owner of both Maisonette 9 and Hercules . By 2018 , he has expanded his nightclub business to Los Santos , San Andreas .
Tony Prince was born in the Midwest c. c. circa 1958 (although he claims to have been born in 1963) and grew up in Dukes , Liberty City. According to the Maisonette 9 website, "as a young boy, he wandered to the Humboldt River and dreamed of living on the other side (in Algonquin ) so he would no longer be considered bridge and tunnel". He also used to play in front of the Monoglobe and would sometimes stare into it, wondering what life was like in different countries. He is ashamed of his Dukes background, and it is hinted during the beginning of Departure Time that he doesn't speak to his parents anymore. He says, "In my day, gay guys used to be lonely, needy, and lost. Now, they're all in relationships!"
Tony would have gone to college as early as 1975 , though he did not focus on his studies. His first experience working at a nightclub came from being in the cloakroom and eventually the front door of Elephant in the mid- 1980s , until a fire caused the club to shut down. The first nightclub Tony opened for himself, with assistance from Mr. Faber , [ 2 ] was PUDDLE , a rave venue famously located in a converted mortuary. [ 3 ] However, the club was shut down when Tony was arrested for tax evasion in 1985 , after which he spent three months in jail. According to Luis Lopez , Tony also first earned the nickname "Gay Tony" in 1985 – as the nickname suggests, Tony became openly homosexual by the time he was 27.
According to the Maisonette 9 website, Tony's next club (and first gay club) was Thunder in 1986 which was later renamed 2 Backed Beast and was eventually shut down by the city. At the height of his career, he also owned the clubs Peacock , Platonic Fury , and Cox . In 1996 , he was arrested for possession of cocaine . After the failure of 2 Backed Beast , he opened Hercules in 1998 . The following year , he got in trouble with the police for "public lewdness". Sometime between 1998 and 2003 , the counterpart straight club in Tony's portfolio, Death By Machines , also burned down, after which Tony was briefly banned from opening new venues.
In 2003, Tony's hiatus ended and he was allowed to open Maisonette 9 , but still came under heavier scrutiny for his club's policies on safety, age-checking, and drug use. [ 4 ] Sometime after opening the club, he met Gracie Ancelotti , a mob daughter who once failed to get inside Maisonette 9 , but was granted a membership after befriending Tony (as Gracie would later tell Niko Bellic in I'll Take Her ). Tony would eventually come to be heavily indebted to Gracie's father .
In 2005 , Tony hired Luis Lopez as a doorman and bouncer for Hercules . They quickly formed a father-son-like relationship (Luis having been abandoned by his father, and Tony being unlikely to ever have children due to his age and orientation), although Tony would later admit to Luis, "I only hired you because I thought you were dumb."
Tony had been dating a yoga instructor long-term before meeting his boyfriend Evan Moss . Gracie and Evan first got him hooked on painkillers and cocaine, according to Luis, and by 2008 Tony had been to rehab five times. He also gained world-famous heiress Cloe Parker as a best customer and casual friend. Like Gracie, Cloe is a regular cocaine user and influenced Tony down a similar path. Tony once confides in Luis, "Oh my god, 45 years old and I get my kicks doing blow with 17 year old kids whose only claim to fame is that people know better what their vagina looks like than their face. I should be sent to prison, shouldn't I?" Despite minor legal and personal troubles, Tony is said to be the 20 year reigning king of Liberty City nightlife.
Tony, struggling with his debts, asks Luis to work for Rocco Pelosi and Mori Kibbutz , hoping this would cover part of his debt and allow him to rebuild his fortunes. When he fails to do so, Tony becomes interested in selling off Maisonette 9, sometimes even resorting to fraud (such as pretending to sell the club to two people at once, and briefly considering setting up a Ponzi scheme ). Luis works on the side for two men, Yusuf Amir and Ray Bulgarin , who Tony considers serious potential buyers because of their extreme wealth. However, Luis hides this from Tony and goes so far as to lie to Tony about his activities at least twice .
Tony sees one last chance to pay off his debts in buying and selling $2 million worth of smuggled diamonds for a small profit. When Luis, Tony and his boyfriend Evan go to buy the diamonds from a cook at the Platypus , they are ambushed by the The Lost MC , resulting in the death of Evan (who Luis instructed to go a separate way and stash the diamonds at Maisonette 9). Before this, Gracie and Evan had gotten Tony back on drugs. Shortly after, Luis manages to recover the diamonds after he ambushes a deal between Johnny Klebitz , Niko Bellic and Isaac Roth . He meets Ray Bulgarin after this event, who later claims that Luis and Tony conspired against him by buying the diamonds – by chance, the cook had stolen them from Bulgarin in the first place. He executes the cook and sends a team of assassins after Luis, who barely escapes.
Gracie is kidnapped soon after, and the kidnappers demand the diamonds from Giovanni Ancelotti in exchange for her release. Luis and Tony successfully exchange the diamonds for Gracie, which results in Tony losing out on $2 million, but apparently settling his debt to the Ancelotti family. However, Bulgarin's men intercept the deal and, during the resulting shootout , the diamonds are thrown onto a passing truck, preventing all parties from claiming them.
Later, Bulgarin persuades Giovanni Ancelotti to have either Tony or Luis killed for the problems the pair caused. Rocco and his uncle are sent to speak with Luis and convince him to murder Tony himself so he would be spared. However, Luis changes his mind at the last moment and turns the gun on Rocco's uncle, killing him. Rocco is allowed to escape due to his made man status, while Luis is forced to fend off waves of Bulgarin's men, who arrive to murder both him and Tony. Later, Luis wipes out Bulgarin's syndicate and ultimately kills him aboard his private jet mid-flight. With the last threat against them removed, Luis and Tony meet in Meadows Park , where Yusuf Amir arrives soon after to celebrate their victory. Shortly before their meeting, a homeless man found the lost diamonds in a trash can, and ran off, laughing gleefully.
Tony may or may not have finally sold Maisonette 9 to Yusuf, who sought to franchise it all over the world, even in Pakistan and on the moon (saying he was quite serious about this). Tony tells Yusuf that "the club is all about the people," and after Yusuf expresses apathy by saying "You can whip out your dick and piss on them!", Tony responds that he would be very qualified to own the club, saying "he would go a long way in the hospitality business". With Rocco eventually deciding to leave the city, after failing to have Tony's situation handled, and the Ancelottis being severely weakened during the events of Grand Theft Auto IV , this would effectively leave Tony no longer obligated to continue paying his mob debts.
Upon completion of The Ballad of Gay Tony , Tony can no longer be contacted by Luis. This is likely because he left the city, as he often spoke of his intentions to move to an extremely secluded getaway spa town, finding life in Liberty to be too stressful.
There are two notable references to Tony in Grand Theft Auto V . The most recognizable one is in Downtown Vinewood at the club Pitchers , as the logo is shared with Tony's nightclub, Hercules. The second, and less noticeable, reference is near the television set in Jimmy 's bedroom, in the De Santa Residence . A magazine called "Residue" lists off various interviews on the front page, with Tony Prince's being second. It states: "Tony Prince, The Ace of Clubs talks." This may suggest that he is involved in some form or another in the nightclub trade. However, the same magazine is seen in Luis' apartment , five years previously.
By 2018 , Tony had moved to Los Santos and planned to open a chain of ten new clubs. That deal fell through somehow, and all ten sites ended up under foreclosure sale . With help and investment from the GTA Online Protagonist , one of the venues is purchased, renovated, and opened to the public. Tony subsequently assists the protagonist in running their nightclub business alongside Lazlow Jones and English Dave .
As the player manages their Nightclub, Tony comes into contact with DJs through Dave's recommendations, such as Solomun , Tale of Us , Dixon and The Black Madonna , who help raise the popularity of the club. Tony also sends the player on several missions, regularly tasks them to promote the club to increase its popularity, and is involved the money laundering operations of the nightclub warehouse, taking a 10% cut.
In the summer of 2022 , Tony has two new Club Management missions for the GTA Online Protagonist, giving them new ways to promote their above-board operations. Meanwhile, inside the nightclub, Marcel assists with maintaining the vibes by keeping the protagonist up-to-date on troublemakers that need ejecting and chaperoning passed-out VIPs to safe locations off-site.
By 2025 , Tony has begun investing heavily in whiskey, purchasing expensive bottles to later sell for a profit. During a run, however, one of Tony's associates betrays him and steals several bottles, leaving Tony at a major financial loss. To prevent both Tony and Mr. Faber from sinking into debt, the GTA Online Protagonist is sent to find the bottles and bring them back to the nightclub, which they accomplish.
Gay Tony's influence over the Liberty City nightclub scene is mostly reminiscent of Peter Gatien , owner of the Limelight and other clubs. Like Prince, Gatien faced drug (1996) and tax evasion (1999) charges and owned several nightclubs geared towards different crowds as investments. Unlike Prince, Gatien is a happily married heterosexual, and having been born in Canada, he was deported there after his drug charges and currently lives in Toronto.
Many elements also seem to have been taken from Steve Rubell , the late owner of the legendary Studio 54 . Both got their start in Queens , New York City (Dukes, Liberty City being a parody), and faced club raids and tax evasion charges since their early years of success. Their business models were also very similar, including a strict, trendy dress code (which Rubell would sometimes enforce personally). Both were homosexuals and habitual drug users, although Rubell kept it a secret, got diagnosed with AIDS in 1985 and died of hepatitis in 1989.
He also bears some similarities to Miami club owner Chris Paciello who, like Tony had connections to New York Mafia families and had one of his famous clubs burn down only to open another club later the same year. Furthermore, Paciello is famous for once having dated the singer Madonna, while Tony Prince appears to have dated another Madonna from the music business, The Blessed Madonna , who is one of the DJs the GTA Online Protagonist can hire to play music in Tony's Los Santos nightclub . This is hinted by one of the dialogue lines coming from The Blessed Madonna herself while performing: " Tony Prince! My boyfriend back in the day! ".
Maisonette 9 bears an uncanny resemblance to New York nightclub Bungalow 8 .
1996 - Possession Controlled Substance: Cocaine
- Often seen in the company of Gracie Ancelotti, daughter of the Crime Syndicate's head. - Recent raids have taken place to check the safety standards and underage admittance policy of his Algonquin clubs - Hercules and Maisonette 9.
With The Criminal Enterprises update, the player can call Tony to access one of the following options:
This option triggers a random Nightclubs/Nightclub Management mission, which can be activated by becoming a VIP/CEO of an organization or an MC president. This option will also show the current nightclub popularity percentage.
This option enables the player a selection of two vehicles to use as an alternative to a Personal / Pegasus vehicle, free of charge. The car may spawn near the player and will stay on the map if the player is within a 1km radius, displayed on the map with an icon.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Devin Weston is a character appearing as a central character and the main antagonist of Grand Theft Auto V . He is also mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is portrayed by Jonathan Walker .
Weston is an American billionaire, venture capitalist, and investor who owns shares in several major companies, from hotel chains like Banner Hotel & Spa to alcohol manufacturers like Patriot Beer and Nogo Vodka ; but most importantly, he is a major shareholder of Merryweather Security , a private military company that acts as the muscle of his various corporate and criminal interests. He is also shown to have influence within law enforcement, as evidenced by his relationship with FIB agent Steve Haines and his ability to procure a police escort for his lawyer and second-in-command, Molly Schultz .
Michael and Trevor first meet Weston after he has had a meeting with his friend and cohort, Steve Haines, during the mission By the Book , where he was given permission to torture Ferdinand Kerimov . However, they are not properly introduced until after they rob an armored truck for him at the behest of Haines . Weston offers the trio special business opportunities: He offers Michael the possibility of making a movie with his idol, Vinewood producer Solomon Richards , in order to raise the value of Richards' studio and he offers Trevor and Franklin Clinton a contract to steal five luxury cars for him so he can sell them to high ranking Chinese government officials.
Trevor and Franklin acquire the five cars, with the assistance of Lamar Davis , and transport them to Weston's drop-off point, but Weston backs out on their payment, promising to "invest" it for them on his own company. Simultaneously, he attempts to shut down the production of Michael and Solomon's movie so that he can claim an insurance pay out since the studio has achieved its probable peak value. Since the insurance policy requires the inability to complete the film, he has his lawyer, Molly Schultz, take the print copy of the film with her and keep it stashed until Weston sees fit to destroy it. Upon discovering this, Michael races to the airport to recover the prints from Molly, but when she sees him coming, she becomes terrified and attempts to flee, only to accidentally end up getting killed when she is sucked into a plane's turbines .
Enraged by Molly's death, Weston sends a platoon of Merryweather soldiers to Michael's home in an attempt to murder his wife and daughter . Alerted of this by Weston's gloating at the premiere for Meltdown , Michael and his son, Jimmy , rush to their home and arrive just in time to save Amanda and Tracey .
After his failure to have Michael's family killed, Weston visits Franklin and asks him to kill Michael, but Franklin tries to refuse, telling him that Agent Haines told him to kill Trevor. It is at this point that Franklin can choose whether to kill Michael at Weston's request, kill Trevor at Haines' request, or spare them and team up with them both to kill all their enemies.
Franklin contacts Lester and asks him for help on figuring out what to do . Lester initially suggests killing both Trevor and Michael, but eventually comes up with a better way to solve the problem. He lures Haines' corrupt FIB allies and Weston's private Merryweather battalion to a foundry where the three protagonists ambush and kill all of them, stripping both Haines and Weston of their brute force power. Afterwards, Lester acquires the locations of all of the protagonists' enemies.
Weston gets kidnapped by Trevor after the protagonists have killed Haines, Wei Cheng and Stretch . As Trevor assaults his mansion, Weston attempts to hide in a crate, but is found by Trevor and knocked out. Trevor stuffs Weston into the trunk of his own car and drives it to the edge of a cliff in Blaine County , where he meets up with Michael and Franklin.
If Franklin chooses to follow Haines's request , he kills Trevor with Michael's assistance. Afterwards, Franklin calls Haines to inform him that he has done as requested and also to ask him to persuade Weston not to go after him for sparing Michael. Haines tells Franklin that he will handle Weston, because Merryweather has lost its licence to operate in the state, but also tells him never to contact him again.
If Franklin chooses to follow Weston's request , Franklin will chase and kill Michael. After the deed is done, Franklin will call Weston and to inform him, asking him to ensure that Steve Haines will not come after him for refusing to kill Trevor, to which Weston informs Franklin that he has already contacted Haines' superiors and ensured that he would back down. Franklin also asks if Weston has any more jobs for him, but the billionaire sardonically tells Franklin that he did do his last job for him, and that he is no further use to him. Before hanging up, he mockingly advises Franklin to "go to business school, because clown school ain't worked out so good."
Liberty Tree Newspaper " Billionaire investor and life style guru Devin Weston has disappeared. Police suspect foul play, but no body has been recovered. Mr. Weston, 51 , who rose to fame in the tech bubble and subsequently made more money in a host of other industries, including entertainment, the Internet , currency trading and luxury travel, recently caused controversy when he invested heavily in Merryweather, the notorious and discredited private security firm run by Don Percival . Police responded to sounds of gunfire at Mr. Weston's villas in the hills above Chumash , but despite signs of violence and several dead security guards, Mr. Weston himself was not found, dead or alive. Also missing was one of Mr. Weston's collection of luxury cars . "
In 2025 , over a decade after Weston's death, his now-empty mansion is taken over and redeveloped by the Prix Luxury real estate company. It is subsequently rebranded as The Tongva Estate and put up for sale, becoming one of three mansions that can be purchased by the GTA Online Protagonist .
Regardless of whether the protagonist buys this mansion or a different one, Michael will briefly and indirectly mention Weston when he pays the protagonist a visit at their new home. If the player bought the Tongva Estate, Michael will jokingly remark that they have better taste than the "asshole" who previously owned it; otherwise, he will mention the mansion in Tongva Hills and claim that the previous owner "wasn't very nice."
Weston is pompous, egotistical, narcissistic, arrogant, greedy, charismatic, temperamental, and a con-artist. He frequently finds enjoyment in reminding the protagonists he is far wealthier than them, and that his affluence allows him to do as he pleases; he even brags about his sexual conquests, both on his website and his Lifeinvader page. Furthermore, he has a rather sadistic and cynical sense of humor, often making crude jokes at others' expense. All the protagonists, at some point or another, agree that Weston is best described as a douchebag: overbearing, prone to showing off, and being "fake" with his irritating habit of pretending he is their friend despite his absolute scorn for them.
It is made agonizingly obvious that Weston has always had everything he wants handed to him, to the point that it does not even occur to him that anyone would actually stand up to him; when they do, he responds with angered emotional outbursts best described as "temper tantrums." This can be seen in the "Deathwish" ending, when Weston starts screaming and crying, "I never lose" after he fails to bribe Trevor into sparing him.
However, it is implied by the "Deathwish" ending that—while Weston may have many connections—he is not well-liked, at least by most of his associates and acquaintances, considering none of the protagonists ever face repercussions for their obvious role in his death. His death, if not a convenience to the people he claimed connected to, is at least not a negative impact on their lives and businesses. The police and FIB list him as "missing" when his body is not found, and Merryweather CEO Don Percival emails Michael and Trevor thanking them for killing Weston as it allowed him to buy Weston's shares in the company at a reduced price, making him a lot of money in the process.
He gives the appearance of living a healthy life and a clear, peaceful mindset by practicing yoga (even having his Lifeinvader profile picture in a namaste greeting pose), but in reality he uses this image in a passive-aggressive stance, still looking down at others. Even Molly, the only person in the game who genuinely likes Weston, is treated with disdain by him, with him dismissively labeling her as "highly-strung". However, her death does anger Weston, but only to the extent that Michael "made a fool" of him.
Weston, according to Trevor, "fancies himself a liberal" and thus engages in several stereotypical "upper class liberal" activities, such as practicing yoga and drinking fancy lattes. However, it becomes clear during the game that these supposed liberal sensitivities are only a ruse to maintain a positive public image. When Lester discovers that Weston owns 11% of Merryweather Security, he will comment on how "good" it is that a "pseudo-liberal" like Weston would be a shareholder in a private military corporation. However, Weston proclaims that he thinks like a libertarian, stating on his website, "Vote Conservative, Live Liberal." Weston himself states that he is a Darwinist—an obvious opposite to his peaceful, positive, liberal image.
Weston also has the habit of calling any of the protagonists by the moniker "slick," which he uses alternately to pretend he is their friend or to belittle them, as the situation sees fit. This is likely a reference to the character of Michael Cerrito from the 1995 movie Heat .
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Wei Cheng (Traditional Chinese: 陳偉 , Simplified Chinese: 陈伟 , Pinyin: Chén Wěi ) is a supporting character and the quaternary antagonist of Grand Theft Auto V .
He is voiced by George Cheung .
Cheng is a Chinese -born mobster from Yangshan, who eventually grew to lead the powerful Los Santos Triads , which primarily deal in gunrunning and meth manufacturing. At some point, he fathered at least three children: Tao , Georgina , and an unnamed son. He is also related to Mr. Cheng , the CEO of Cheng Family Holdings , the family's legal front, though their relation whether they are brothers or brothers-in-law remains unknown. He grooms Tao to be his successor, albeit with little success; while Georgina is Vice President of their legitimate business.
By 2013 , Cheng began seeking to expand his business into Blaine County through collaboration with an already functioning group there. The Triads met Ron Jakowski and agreed to a potential partnership with his business partner, Trevor Philips , and their organization, Trevor Philips Enterprises . Cheng sends his son Tao and his translator to make contact with Trevor, but when a shootout with a rival gang occurs while touring the TPE meth lab , Cheng decides to partner with the O'Neil Brothers instead.
Enraged upon learning that the Triads won't be partnering with him, Trevor bashes Tao's head against a pole before assaulting the O'Neil's ranch , destroying their cookhouse, and killing the majority of the brothers. With Cheng's expansion attempts disrupted by Trevor's attack, he desires to meet face to face. He orders his men to scout Trevor's trailer , where they observe Trevor and his friend Michael De Santa living in it while hiding out from cartel boss Martin Madrazo , along with Madrazo's kidnapped wife, Patricia . The Triads then incorrectly believe that Michael and Trevor are gay lovers, with Patricia being their maid.
Later on, Trevor and Michael have a falling out when the former figures out that the latter betrayed him and his old crew nearly ten years prior , and that their fellow criminal, Brad Snider , had been killed as a result of Michael's actions, being buried in a grave marked for Michael when he had faked his death. Trevor flies to the gravesite in Ludendorff , North Yankton to confirm his suspicions, with Michael giving chase in an attempt to stop him from uncovering the truth. Unbeknownst to the two, they are both followed by Cheng's men, who ambush them at the cemetery . Trevor manages to escape, but Michael is captured by the Triads.
Michael is brought back to Los Santos and held captive in a slaughterhouse . Cheng personally calls Trevor and informs him that they will kill Michael unless he meets with them, but Trevor, angry due to Michael's betrayal, declines. When Cheng realizes that Trevor is serious and in fact, isn't coming, he orders Michael to be put into one of the slaughterhouse's machines, before leaving. Ultimately, Michael's friend, Franklin Clinton , rescues him.
By the end of the game, Franklin is given separate orders by FIB agent Steve Haines and billionaire Devin Weston to kill one of his friends. Haines wants him to kill Trevor, and Weston wants him to kill Michael. He then has to choose between carrying out Haines' instructions , carrying out Weston's , or disregarding them both and getting together with both Trevor and Michael to take out their enemies . Ultimately, he picks the latter.
Michael, Trevor, Franklin, and his friend Lamar Davis wipe out several FIB teams and Merryweather Security operatives in order to strip Haines and Weston of their muscle, before each heading off individually to kill their enemies. To avoid association, Franklin is sent to kill Cheng, with their contact, Lester Crest , tracking Tao's credit card and determining it to have recently been used at the Pacific Bluffs Country Club .
Franklin arrives and spots Cheng getting into a car outside the club with Tao, surrounded by bodyguards. If he notices Franklin, he correctly recognizes him as an assassin and orders his driver to speed away. Ultimately, Franklin manages to kill Cheng. Afterwards, Trevor laments that they while the Triads won't be coming after him anymore, he no longer has anyone to sell superweapons to.
If Franklin chooses to kill either Michael or Trevor, Cheng makes no further appearances and his fate is unknown.
The elder Cheng is very different from his son, Tao. He is shown to be cruel and extremely bloodthirsty, stopping at nothing to ensure the Triads are the dominant gang in Los Santos . He has gone as far as having Michael De Santa hunted down in North Yankton and sentenced to being slaughtered for his alleged "lover" Trevor's actions with the O'Neils , which were one of the Triads' business partners. Despite his cruelty, he attempted to peacefully make business with Trevor, but seeing that he was an insufficient business partner, attempted to cut ties with him. A hostility then occurred after Trevor destroyed the O'Neil's meth lab and killed a large majority of them after being replaced as a business partner by them. He also appears to care about his men, as he has expressed great irritation twice about his men getting killed. The first time being in the meat house where he berates Michael by saying “and then you kill several good men. Good day, huh?” Trevor can also call Mr. Cheng after the completion of Fresh Meat where he tells Trevor that Michael was rescued, and Trevor asks what was up with that, with Mr. Cheng replying “more of my men died, Mr. Philips!” He also appears to show some compassion as he attempts to make peace with Trevor if he gives up his business and he will let Michael go (although this could be manipulation). But Trevor refuses and Michael is still kept hostage at the meat factory until Franklin comes to rescue him.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
The Stretch is a stretch limousine featured in every game in the 3D Universe and HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series, excluding Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars . It is manufactured by Dundreary in Grand Theft Auto IV and Albany in Grand Theft Auto V . However, the name Dundreary Stretch writing is still present on the GTA V rendition.
The Stretch's design varies in each game, often being the stretched version of the game's executive sedans (namely the Sentinel , Admiral and Washington ), with styling similar to common American limousines of the respective time periods.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , it is essentially the limousine variant of the Dundreary Admiral , which is based on the Mercury Grand Marquis . It now features five pillars, with decorative lights on each center pillar, and holds a luxury interior. On the rear, a sports aerial can be seen mounted on the trunk of the vehicle. It bears a TV inside, depicting images of the beta version of the Sultan RS and a vague image of a boat at sea, possibly that of the Dinghy . Because of the use of bloom effects, the latter will appear too bright for one to identify, unless they view it through the Stretch's tinted windscreens, or through inspection of internal files.
GTA IV 's Stretch also features durable windows (particularly side windows) unlike most other cars in the game - they can withstand a significant amount of gunfire before shattering. The Stretch comes in numerous tones of white of black. The vehicle will make an audible door ajar sound if a door is open. It can be heard clearly in quiet areas with the volume turned up.
The Stretch is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , it is the limo variant of the Albany Washington , which is based on the Lincoln Town Car . The car appears with an unknown dark window tint applied by default. [ 1 ]
The rear interior of the vehicle retains the design of the original interior in GTA IV and is not changed in the enhanced version of GTA V . The television screen from GTA IV is removed.
Being a large, multi-passenger vehicle with an extended drive axle due to its length, the Stretch has a rear wheel drive layout. Exceptions are the GTA III and GTA Vice City variants which are front wheel drive, therefore, not requiring an extended drive axle and performing better in terms of acceleration and hill climbing. Its length makes it difficult to maneuver through tight spaces and around corners at high speed, and its suspension is too soft, contributing to body roll. Although it may be prone to body roll, the soft suspension also guarantees a very comfortable ride on potholed roads. Its ability to absorb damage is not particularly impressive either, making the Stretch more of a specific-use vehicle, or a status-grabber, and a generally poor choice for primary transportation, or for evading cops. Unfortunately, it can only fit three passengers, and thus cannot be used to transport extra gang members in, like the Coach or Bus can.
RWD ( GTA San Andreas — GTA Vice City Stories )
RWD ( GTA San Andreas — GTA Vice City Stories )
The Stretch's performance is a somewhat downgrade from the 3D Universe rendition. Due to it being based on the Admiral , an already heavy vehicle, it is a very heavy limousine and therefore its acceleration is inferior. Its long wheelbase also proves it hard to corner, slowing down for corners is vital. The durability is an improvement thanks to its bulky design and reinforced windows. The low-profile body design also makes it less of a target to enemies.
Like the Admiral, the Stretch is powered by what appears to be a V8, as suggested by the engine cover, coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. Its sound is similar to that of the Admiral, as well as many luxury sedans.
The Stretch's performance seems unchanged from the GTA IV version, except that the vehicle has somewhat better handling, due to the reduced mass. Its top speed is reduced slightly, and acceleration is reduced significantly, even despite the retained drive system and less mass. Gear shifts are slightly higher, thus giving the car less potential in terms of acceleration.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , the band Love Fist uses a customized, shorter version of the Stretch. This vehicle is supercharged, with improved acceleration, speed, and handling.
A black Stretch similar to that ridden by Avery Carrington . ( Rear quarter view )
A gold Stretch in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , obtained from Martha's Mug Shot .
The black Stretch in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . ( Rear quarter view )
A white-black Stretch in GTA San Andreas . ( Rear quarter view )
In the enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto V , it is possible to find a Stretch with a unique pink color. This particular model can only be seen parked in a single location and is not found in traffic.
The pink Stretch outside Cockatoos .
In the enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto Online , there are two variants of the Stretch with custom license plates "DIAMOND1" and "DIAMOND2". The first one is a white and black version used in the Casino Work mission High Rollin' and the second one is an all-black version provided as a transport when the player requests the "Limousine Services" option by calling to Agatha Baker . Both versions have tinted windows and Xenon lights.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
An earlier iteration of the Stretch in Grand Theft Auto III prior to the game's release.
Artwork of the Stretch .
More artwork of the Stretch .
Interior of the passenger compartment in Grand Theft Auto IV ' s Stretch .
TV screens and lights.
A Washington next to a Stretch in GTA V .
Interior of the passenger compartment in Grand Theft Auto V ' s Stretch .
The Stretch on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Stretch on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Stretch on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stretch in the cinematic preview on the Grand Theft Auto V Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stretch in the cinematic preview on the Grand Theft Auto Online Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stretch is only used in a few missions, and is usually found in the more affluent areas in each city.
The cutscene model of the Stretch in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . (Rear quarter view)
The rear-only model used during Rub Out , to simulate Lance opening the trunk of the Stallion (right).
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Martin Madrazo is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The head of his own Mexican-American drug Cartel , Madrazo is a powerful and wealthy legitimate businessman settled in Los Santos with his wife, Patricia , and their son, Miguel . During the events of Grand Theft Auto V , he forcefully hires co-protagonist Michael De Santa following an incident that cost him millions of dollars.
In both of his appearances, Madrazo was portrayed by Alfredo Huereca .
Martin was born in Mexico and moved to the United States at an unknown point in time. At some point in his life, Madrazo became the head of the most ruthless Mexican narcotic gangs in the Los Santos area. Due to his status, he has been summoned to several court cases involving his gang activity, but has not yet been convicted as any witnesses willing to testify were silenced.
Madrazo married his wife Patricia in 1983 [ 2 ] , and had a son not long after that. However, Madrazo mistreats her, and is having an affair with a Russian woman named Natalia Zverovna .
Madrazo is one of the people hiring the protagonist to do their jobs and tasks. Once the player reaches rank 18, Madrazo calls them, introducing himself and the Gang Attacks feature, telling the protagonist to destroy his rivals' hideouts.
Following the first mission for Madrazo, the protagonist meets him in person, near his house . Afterwards, Madrazo starts giving the protagonist various missions, often asking him to eliminate rivals and other threats to his business.
Madrazo first appears when Michael De Santa and Franklin Clinton pull down his mistress' deck , which a tennis coach who had been cheating with his wife Amanda had been hiding on. Madrazo's mistress takes the phone from the coach, who is telling Michael that it was not his home that was destroyed, and Natalia tells the retired thief that Madrazo gave the "green light" (a hit) on him.
Franklin holds the hitmen off as Michael drives back to his mansion, but Madrazo appears soon afterwards. He sees Michael does not know him but Franklin does and he takes Franklin's driver's license and tells him to give Michael a background on him. Franklin complies by telling the retired thief that Madrazo was a "legitimate businessman wrongly accused of leading a Mexican narcotics gang" before the charges were dropped. Madrazo compliments Franklin's knowledge and beats Michael with a baseball bat , but, upon realizing the house's destruction was based on misdirected retaliation, leaves after demanding Michael pay the $2.5 million necessary to repair the house to avoid any further retaliation.
After the mission, Michael can call Madrazo three times before the latter threatens Michael the next strike "will be a machete , not a baseball bat".
Once Michael pays him reparations for the damages to the house, Madrazo shows some gratitude and is pleased that Michael kept his word.
A while later, Madrazo calls Michael for a job, driving to his ranch in Vinewood Hills . Also with Michael was Trevor Philips . Madrazo told them that he needed his cousin Javier killed because he was thinking of testifying against Madrazo, so he set up a turret in the hills, which would be used to shoot Javier's private plane down.
Afterwards, Trevor returned to Madrazo's home with some sensitive files retrieved from the plane wreckage and immediately demands payment for 'a fair day's work'. When Madrazo refused to pay him, he 'kinda got a little angry', cutting Madrazo's left ear off before stealing his wife, whom he developed a crush for, and his car, then driving off to his trailer, where he and Michael hid for a short time.
In order to prevent Madrazo from killing him and Trevor, Michael retrieved an Aztec fertility statue from a sunken container and gave it to him as a peace offering (knowing that Madrazo was fond of such artifacts, having seen several of them in his house). Madrazo's wife is returned to him, but Trevor threatens to kill him if he ever mistreats her again, to which Madrazo agrees and claims he and Trevor have the kind of friendship that involves both men doing whatever necessary to avoid antagonizing each other. After this point, Madrazo is not heard from again. However, his wife will make two phone calls to Trevor, each time speaking to him only briefly before saying she has to go because Madrazo is coming.
In 2018 , as part of the Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series update, Madrazo hires the GTA Online Protagonist once again to assassinate some targets including traitors, one of his dealers and closest associates.
In late 2020 , the Madrazos were having some disagreements with one of their main suppliers, the Colombian narcotrafficker Juan Strickler , better known as "El Rubio", who managed to get hold of intel on the family. Strickler threatened to leak the information to the DEA if the Madrazos would not renegotiate their prices. With Martin's son Miguel in charge of getting the intel back, Martin recommended that he contact the GTA Online Protagonist for the job.
Eventually, the players manage to liberate the documents from Strickler and give them to Miguel. With the evidence now back in their hands, he calls Martin to inform him and attempts to persuade his father into following up on some deals and projects of his, only to get promptly hung up on.
In 2024 , Madrazo begins offering the GTA Online Protagonist daily assassination work after hearing they have taken over Bottom Dollar Bail Enforcement . Upon each successful assassination, the player is required to send a picture of the target's body to Madrazo to confirm the kill.
In 2025 , Madrazo contacts the GTA Online Protagonist, arranging a meeting at Los Santos International Airport to introduce them to his long-term associate, Mr. Faber , for new business opportunities. After meeting Faber and his business consultant, Raf De Angelis , Madrazo has the protagonist dropped off at the Hands On Car Wash in Strawberry , the first of several legitimate businesses they are to purchase and use as fronts for their money laundering operations.
Martin later appears during the mission Mutual Funds , where he instructs the player to help defend a loaded Custom Flatbed from an attack by the Armenian Mob . The truck is carrying a bribe stashed inside of a piece of art, intended for a female politician overseas to convince her to support Madrazo's business ventures. After the player successfully escorts the truck to its destination, Madrazo calls them to congratulate them for a job well done and tell them that his men will look after the shipment from there.
Madrazo is often described as a psychopath because of his short temper and his ruthless methods of dealing with people who cross him in any way, shown when he has Michael assassinate his cousin Javier Madrazo . Despite this, he shows gratitude to Michael when he paid for the house and despite their rocky beginnings, Madrazo trusted Michael enough to employ him . However, unlike typical rich psychopaths who would often prefer to maintain a positive image, he prefers instead to openly and constantly remind people around him of his psychopathic traits, and enjoys making people, even those closest to him, fear him. He also appears to be misogynistic, as he mistreats his wife and has had several affairs with other women. Despite that, he was angry when his wife was kidnapped by Trevor and wanted her returned to him. However, he's also shown to be terrified of people who can match his psychopathic tendencies, shown when he tells Trevor that he'll go to great lengths to avoid contact with him after Trevor threatens him with retaliation should he ever mistreat Patricia again.
Madrazo seems to respect people who respect him back, as seen in GTA Online , where he will be friendly towards the player and call them his friend if the job he gave was completed successfully. Not doing a job for Madrazo in GTA Online for a period of time will result in angry phone calls from him.
" Madrazo Dispatch Services " contact missions:
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Solomon Richards is a main character appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He is voiced by Joel Rooks .
Solomon Richards is a successful Vinewood film producer and the owner of Richards Majestic Productions , a film company he inherited from his father, classic Vinewood producer David Richards , in 1978 . Solomon began his career as an associate producer on his father's movies, though he later began to produce his own and eventually gained fame during the late 1970s and early 1980s for making commercially successful but artistically mediocre movies, in sharp contrast with his father's critically acclaimed projects.
He had a complicated work relationship with one of his father's lead starlets, Leonora Johnson , because she considered him a "hack" and refused to complete work on a film Solomon was producing, due to "artistic differences". This great dislike for Leonora eventually made Solomon one of the lead suspects for her murder (which in reality had been committed by Peter Dreyfuss ), but he was never charged due to lack of evidence.
By 2013 , during the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Solomon's studio has run into financial difficulty after the economic failure of some of his more recent productions. Tired of the movie business, Solomon seeks to recover his studio's prestige and successfully retire after making one final movie: Meltdown .
Solomon is introduced to Michael De Santa by their mutual contact, billionaire holdings investor Devin Weston , who is also a major shareholder in Richards' production company. Michael, a big fan of Solomon's work, agrees to help his idol complete his swansong picture. Solomon tells Michael that his lead actor, Milton McIlroy , and his director, Anton Beaudelaire , have left production after being persuaded to sign up with former gangster Rocco Pelosi 's management firm and Rocco is trying to force Richards to pay him off to get his lead and his director back. At Solomon's request, Michael tracks down and beats up Rocco to get him to back off and then successfully intimidates Milton and Anton into returning to the set.
Some time later , Rocco and his partner, Gianni , confront Solomon at his studio and assault him, trying to force him to pay them off. However, they get caught by Michael, who chases them out of the studio and eventually kills them both.
Solomon manages to complete the film, but he gets betrayed by Weston, who decides to shut down the studio and the production in order to cash in on the insurance and so that he can sell the studio property and develop it into luxury condos. Weston gives the analogue copy of the film to his attorney, Molly Schultz , as she leaves the city so that she can dispose of it, but Michael follows her to the airport and attempts to recover the film, scaring Molly (who believes Michael is trying to kill her) and causing her to accidentally get sucked into a jet engine. The film is left undamaged and Michael manages to recover it, only to later discover that Solomon shot several digital copies just in case, which Michael was not aware of.
Following the Molly incident, Solomon and Michael attend the premiere of Meltdown , but Michael misses it to save his family after Weston sent a platoon of his Merryweather soldiers to his home to kill them. Meltdown receives a mixed critical response, but is popular with audiences and becomes the biggest box office hit of Solomon's career.
In August 2020 , Solomon suddenly texts the GTA Online Protagonist , telling them that his office has been raided, and with no faith in the capabilities of the LSPD , he urges the player to come take a look. Once there, the protagonist receives a follow-up message, in which Solomon asks them to find his stolen Movie Props and deliver them back to his studio.
After all ten Movies Props have been returned, Solomon sends a final message thanking the protagonist for their help and telling them that he has left them a gift "money can't buy" in his office. Following this, he makes no further appearances.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Jeffrey Crawford "Lazlow" Jones (born September 4, 1973) is an American writer, producer, director, voice actor, radio announcer, and former Rockstar associate and writer.
Lazlow is best known for his time as co-chair of the Rockstar Games Production Department, responsible for in-game creative audio and video content, working directly for and writing with Rockstar co-founder and Head of Creative Dan Houser .
During his career at Rockstar Games his primary responsibilities were as a director, producer and writer for the Grand Theft Auto , Red Dead Redemption , Max Payne , Bully , and Midnight Club series, as well as the voice over director for Manhunt 2 , and was part of Rockstar's production team for The Warriors and L.A. Noire , the latter of which he also contributed some writing to. Lazlow also hosted his own real-life radio shows: Lazlow's Technofile , which for a time was syndicated on radio stations across the US in the late 1990s and early 2000s, and The Lazlow Show , which began airing on New York City 's K-Rock in 2005 before moving to the Opie & Anthony Channel (branded at the time as The Virus ) as part of the channel's Saturday Night Virus lineup on XM Satellite Radio in 2006; in 2009, XM and Sirius Satellite Radio merged to become the single entity known as SiriusXM . Due to the merger and a resulting disagreement in regard to the show's budget, it eventually began airing from the Long Island basement studio (known amongst fans as "The Compound") of then- Opie & Anthony Show co-host Anthony Cumia . The Lazlow Show officially ran from 2005 to 2010 on a mostly irregular schedule, at times with many months passing between episodes due to Lazlow's increasingly heavy workload at Rockstar. However, there were also times when the show was on a more regular schedule, typically coinciding with the immediate downtime after the release of a new Rockstar title, with episodes airing live roughly every month or two for an indeterminate period of time until reverting to a more flexible, random release schedule once work on a new Rockstar title entered full-swing. In 2015, five years after the show had unofficially ended, a one-off episode was broadcast as a tribute to Wayne "Big Wayne" Oliver, Lazlow's very close friend, neighbor, and co-host on the show, who had passed away of a heart attack in November 2014. Overall, 52 episodes of The Lazlow Show were broadcast live over the course of ten years.
Behind the scenes, Lazlow was one of the writers of the game's script, providing political and cultural satire on the radio, and writing dialogue for street NPCs. Lazlow arranged voice cameos in the Grand Theft Auto games for several key figures, many of whom are real-life friends of his, such as Reed Tucker , Wayne "Big Wayne" Oliver, Fred Armisen , Frank Chavez , Anthony Cumia , Patrice O'Neal , Bill Burr , Wil Wheaton , Gregg "Opie" Hughes , Jim Norton , Sam Roberts , Joe DeRosa , Robert Kelly , Jim Florentine , Club Soda Kenny , and Couzin Ed , who would eventually join Rockstar as a full-time employee, and even members of his own family (for example, his father can be heard as the caller who mentions Gardening with Maurice on Chatterbox FM ). He even arranged voice cameos for members of the hacker magazine " 2600: The Hacker Quarterly " , including Emmanuel Goldstein, Bernie S., and Kevin Mitnick. In April 2020, Lazlow resigned from Rockstar Games during the COVID-19 pandemic to care for his sister and family. Exactly a year later, Lazlow joined Dan Houser 's next company, Absurd Ventures .
Grand Theft Auto III was Lazlow's first GTA game. He produced, scripted and hosted the popular Chatterbox FM radio station. He co-wrote the other radio station dialogue with Dan Houser of Rockstar Games .
After gaining great popularity for his GTA III work, Lazlow took a larger role in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . Rockstar hired Lazlow's production company, Radio Lazlow , to co-write and produce all the radio stations in GTA Vice City , as well as minor character and pedestrian dialogue. He was also the host of Vice City radio station V-Rock , referring to a comment made offhand in GTA III , that he only worked at Chatterbox FM "because [he] got kicked off the rock station" .
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , he co-wrote and produced all of the in-game radio, as well as hosting Entertaining America on WCTR and appearing as a caller on I Say/You Say .
He also returned as host of the Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories version of the Chatterbox radio show, although this time, his role was smaller — during the setting of the game, Chatterbox is merely a single show on a station, not an entire station on its own.
Lazlow returned in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories as an intern at V-Rock, working for his real-life friend, Couzin Ed . Earlier in Lazlow's and Couzin Ed's real-life radio careers, Lazlow was the sidekick of Couzin Ed.
As Lazlow was involved in writing the radio content for all the 3D Universe games, he was able to create continuity between the games, even though they were released out of chronological order. This continuity built through the many games of the series is one of the few direct links between the 3D Universe and the HD Universe , as the two do not otherwise share much continuity.
For example, in GTA III , Lazlow and Donald Love are said to be in charge of operating Chatterbox FM, a situation established in dialogue written for LCFR in GTA Liberty City Stories . Characters mentioned in passing might later appear in a later game (such as Crow , who is referenced in passing in GTA San Andreas , and appears on the air in GTA Liberty City Stories ).
Another example of this continuity is when in Grand Theft Auto IV , Lazlow is referred to on other channels as the host of the "long-defunct Chatterbox", and who is raising money for a new venture. Despite that, he still introduces himself as "Lazlow 2.0", a meta-joke about the character's reboot.
Dr. Isiah Friedlander PhD is a central character appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and a main antagonist in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of the Los Santos Drug Wars update.
He is a renowned therapist based in Los Santos , and a media celebrity, pharmaceutical corporation owner and psychedelic therapist by 2023 .
He is voiced by Bryan Scott Johnson .
Growing up, Dr. Friedlander was bullied, with girls calling him "pube head" due to his curly hair. According to his website, Friedlander received a bachelor's degree in marketing from the University of San Andreas, Los Santos in 1984 and a doctorate degree in psychology in 1986 from an unknown defunct learning institution. He then began practicing psychotherapy in 1987 . He has also traveled frequently in Asia .
Throughout his years as a therapist, he treated both celebrities and criminals, becoming a leading authority in the field of sociopathic personality disorder. In the 1980s , Friedlander helped expose the culture of narcissism in the ganglands of San Andreas and also criticized it for its "overuse of hyphens". He was a regular contributor to a Mount Zonah Medical Center radio show called "Debrief Encounters" before it was cancelled, and was featured on the TV show Rehab Island as a psychological pundit.
A few years prior to 2013 , he began treating former bank robber Michael De Santa as he dealt with a midlife crisis, meeting once a week. At some point, he prescribed Michael with medications that caused him to constantly wet his pants, cry, sleep at the dinner table, and howl in the middle of the night. Seeing that this did not help him at all, Dr. Friedlander, who thought he might have gotten the doses wrong, took Michael off of the medications.
By 2013, Dr. Friedlander became one of the most respected and in-demand therapists in Los Santos, at his clinic on the Pacific Bluffs coastline . Michael continues to visit him, in one session blowing up about his life and how he's stuck living in a big house with no one who cares about his problems but Friedlander. Dr. Friedlander tells him to let his rage out, to which Michael acknowledges that he thinks he did.
Some time afterwards , he listens to Amanda and Michael argue about their relationship, but he makes no effort to intervene in any way.
Later in the game (in an optional visit ), he tells Michael that he has been offered his own TV show and will be leaving Los Santos. He then informs Michael that he needs to find a new therapist and implies that he is going to use Michael's case on his show. Angered by this, Michael chases after Friedlander. Michael then has the choice to kill him or let him go.
If spared, after some time, Friedlander will send an e-mail to Michael. In the e-mail, Friedlander explains how sorry he is about what he did to Michael, but now he can help more people with his new radio program and TV show. He also says that he values the time spent with Michael and that they should both forget what happened between them and move forward. Michael has the option of replying to the e-mail; if he does so, he will threaten to kill Friedlander should they ever meet again.
If killed, a random amount of money between $2005 and $2300 [ 2 ] can be looted from his corpse and an Internet article confirms his death. The internet article, posted in the news reel from Los Santos Meteor , reveals that Friedlander published details of Michael's sessions in a best-selling book, (using the alias "Marky De Santos") describing him as an "idiotic, if terrifying and amusingly deluded sociopath" . This article still appears even if Dr. Friedlander is spared. [ 3 ]
This option was later retconned as non-canon in GTA Online: Los Santos Drug Wars , as Friedlander is still alive in 2023 .
The internet news article mentioning his death will still appear regardless if the player spares him or kills him. This is an oversight, as after some time, he will still post on Bleeter . A similar oversight regarding news reporting optional deaths regardless of the player's choice also happens after Hood Safari , Vinewood Souvenirs - Willy and A Starlet in Vinewood .
Ultimately, Friedlander was either spared by Michael or managed to escape during the car chase after his last therapy session, and became a TV/radio celebrity shortly after.
Almost a decade after starting his radio program and TV show, Friedlander decided to get in the drug game himself and established the FriedMind Pharmaceutical Corporation at some point before 2023 . Capitalizing on his celebrity, Friedlander aimed to produce a new "wonder drug" to treat wealthy clients suffering from psychological problems, and earn a fortune in the process.
In early 2023, Friedlander has his hired mercenaries raid the Fooliganz ' Freakshop in East Vinewood in order to abduct the gang's chemist, Labrat .
After a brief investigation, the GTA Online Protagonist discovers the location of the FriedMind HQ in the Eclipse Medical Tower in West Vinewood and rescues Labrat with the help of fellow Fooliganz member Luchadora . As the duo free Labrat, Friedlander reveals himself and explains his plans. Since Labrat is one of three chemists in the world with a PhD in the specialised field of psychedelics, and after the other two had refused to cooperate, Friedlander used Labrat's talents and his own stockpile of 80% of the world's precursor chemical supplies to create a hallucinogenic drug ten times more potent than psilocybin. Friedlander plans to use this drug in his psychedelic-assisted therapy business and become a pioneer, which will allow him to build a "temple of peace and sanity" in the jungles of South America.
As Labrat's mind is too far gone to be of any use, Friedlander makes an offer to the GTA Online Protagonist to come with him to South America instead. Seeing the protagonist will not cooperate, however, Friedlander quickly makes his escape after the lights in the room are cut out, leaving his guards behind to deal with the player, Luchadora and Labrat.
Some time later, Friedlander takes his new hallucinogen to the Parsons Rehabilitation Center for trials, where he and his mercenaries are cornered by the Fooliganz. As soon as the player, Dax and Luchadora arrive, they end up becoming test subjects for the psychedelic drug after falling into a trap, and Friedlander escapes during their trip.
Not long after, Dax captures and tortures one of Friedlander's mercenaries for information. The mercenary reveals that Friedlander is on a Cargo Plane at Los Santos International Airport , preparing to relocate his new product to South America. The player and Luchadora manage to intercept the Cargo Plane mid-flight, by crashing a Velum 5-Seater into the cargo bay, and fight their way past Friedlander's mercenaries to the plane's cockpit, where Friedlander is nowhere to be found. Friedlander emerges from a wooden crate he was hiding in and bails out of the plane with a parachute , escaping once again but abandoning his product. The Fooliganz subsequently seize control of the Cargo Plane and land it at the Sandy Shores Airfield , allowing them to take Friedlander's product to The Freakshop.
Sometime upon completion of the Last Dose mission strand, Dax calls the player to reveal that Friedlander's Virtue was found abandoned in the basement of the FriedMind HQ. As a reward for all their help, Dax decides to gift the car to the GTA Online Protagonist.
Dr. Friedlander is portrayed as an over-the-top version of a Hollywood psychotherapist. On his official website, he is said to be a media personality, secular Buddhist, and keen model boat enthusiast. He charges exorbitant rates for sessions (as seen in an email where he raises his rates by a "reasonable" 75%) and does not appear to care much about his patients and their problems. During Michael's therapy sessions, he is seen looking at his watch waiting for the session time to expire. He appears unconcerned about Michael's behavior as the latter confesses that he is able to kill without remorse. He makes several Bleeter bleets further reinforcing his apparent disdain for his patients.
Friedlander appears to be primarily driven by greed. This is made evident by his exorbitant rates and his attempts to profit as much as he can from Michael, such as charging him four times his usual rate for a family session and using Michael's story to launch his radio program and TV show, without Michael's consent. Friedlander's greed is further reinforced during the events of Grand Theft Auto Online ; while attempting to convince the protagonist to join him in South America, Friedlander unabashedly insists that "[they'll] be rich!", revealing one of his main motivations.
Dr. Friedlander is likely based upon Dr. Sidney Freedman from M*A*S*H . The two are similar in name, appearance, and mannerisms (though Friedlander appears to care far less about his patients). This is one of two known M*A*S*H references in Grand Theft Auto V ; the other being a quote by Jack Howitzer .
He operates www.dr-friedlander.com on the Internet in GTA V .
The home page outlining his services and a list of "Typical Conditions" he can treat.
A biographical section outlining his education and history.
A section detailing his past published history and appearances, as well as announcing his book SOCIOPATH - Inside the Mind of America's Most Deluded Criminals .
A timed word-find puzzle requiring the participant to write down as many words of empowerment as they can on a piece of paper, followed by a recommendation to seek help from Dr. Friedlander.
A group of short patient testimonials from:
Los Santos Meteor article that appears after Abandonment Issues. The article appears regardless of whether or not Dr. Friedlander is killed. (Non-canon)
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Cris Formage may refer to:
The United Liberty Paper contact (real name Bernard ), mostly referred to as Agent ULP , is a main character in Grand Theft Auto IV , a minor character in Grand Theft Auto V , and a main character in Grand Theft Auto Online .
He was originally voiced by the late Milton James in GTA IV and GTA V , and later Jeff Steitzer in GTA Online .
The United Liberty Paper Contact, is a senior agent working for the International Affairs Agency (IAA), joining them at some point prior to 2008 , under the front of the United Liberty Paper. He mentions a past military career in the U.S. Army. He has a history of working with drug dealers on the West Coast of America and has historical ties to Russians going back to the late 1980s and early 1990s when they started emigrating to America on Israeli passports. By his own admission he was "the first in (to Russia) in '91 and the first out in '11". He also possibly has a history of working operations during the Yugoslav wars as he speaks a sentence in Serbian to Niko.
The Contact blackmails Niko to work with the U.L. Paper after Niko finds out that his girlfriend, Michelle , was an agent assigned to monitor him. The Contact then gives Niko several tasks that usually include killing people that are "supposedly" linked to a powerful terrorist group. He also has him cover up some of U.L. Paper's activities, such as by killing a man who knew of the Organization, killing another man who funded terrorist plots and stealing a helicopter from the terrorist group to kill yet another man who funded the group's activities.
During the course of the mission line for The Contact, he tells Niko that, in repayment for his cooperation, he will find the man that Niko came to America to find. He ends up keeping that promise towards the end of the game when he has Darko Brevic delivered to Francis International Airport for Niko to deal with him . After this, he informs Niko that he's on his own and wishes him the best. If Niko kills Darko, The Contact sends Niko an email stating that he hopes he got what he wanted in the end and informs Niko that he has let go of all the negativity and what happened with Darko, try new things and move on.
If Niko spares Darko, The Contact sends Niko an email congratulating him on doing the right thing, telling him to move on with his life and for him to take care of himself, bidding him farewell.
If Niko responds positively to either email, he'll thank The Contact for his help and wishes him luck on running the world and concludes by saying it doesn't seem to be going good.
The contact (credited as United Paper Man ) makes his first appearance in Grand Theft Auto V at the end of the mission Monkey Business , where he, along with two soldiers , discovers FIB agent Steve Haines , who shot himself in the leg so that Michael De Santa and Dave Norton could get away with the chemical agent they had stolen.
He appears again later in the mission The Wrap Up . Here, he shows up to the stand off between De Santa, Norton, Haines, and Agent Sanchez , alongside several IAA agents. Then, corrupt FIB agents show up, compromising the situation even further, and then Merryweather Security shows up as well. After the opening cutscene is over, a three way shootout commences on the roof. During the fire fight, the contact will arm himself with an unmodified pistol , and can be shot, either by Michael, FIB agents or Merryweather operatives. Ultimately, however, the contact canonically survives the incident.
In 2017 , the contact makes an appearance in Act 2 of The Doomsday Heist , in which he was kidnapped by the Russians and is being held captive at a foundry in East Los Santos. The player and their crew members are required to extract him from the foundry and bring him to a secure location, where he will be looked after by Avon Hertz 's security team.
Later in Act 3 , the player and their crew have to help Agent ULP return to the IAA. The players need to escort him in his Havok from Procopio Beach to the IAA hideout, using Ramp Buggies and a Chernobog to fight off Cliffford Mercenaries in Valkyries and Dubsta 6x6s . Upon completion, Phoenicia Rackman expresses her relief on the job well done, and identifies Agent ULP by the name "Bernard", telling him to stay safe after the event, to which Lester reacts with a question, "Bernard?".
In the summer of 2022 , half a decade after the events of The Doomsday Heist, Agent ULP hires the GTA Online Protagonist as a sworn-in IAA special agent for Operation Paper Trail to investigate the local petrochemical magnates, the Duggan Crime Family , who he suspects are behind the sudden increase of gasoline prices in San Andreas . Eventually, his suspicions are confirmed to be true by the IAA investigation, and in addition, they find out that remains of Cliffford 's code were acquired by the Duggan Family, who used the AI to manipulate the gas prices for their personal profit.
After recovering Cliffford's hardware from the Duggans, Agent ULP sends the protagonist to the Mile High Club , where Mason Duggan has set up a deal with corrupt FIB agents to purchase more drives containing Cliffford's code from their collection of seized assets. The protagonist busts the deal , chases and kills Mason, and secures the drives, delivering them to the IAA.
In their final assignment as a special agent, the GTA Online Protagonist is granted access to a top-secret agency-controlled site, the abandoned silo on Mount Chiliad formerly owned by the late Avon Hertz, where they are tasked with obliterating any remaining traces of Cliffford's code in the servers. Additionally, U.L.P instructs them to safe a copy of Clifford's code on their phone and deliver it to the IAA. After the protagonist completes this task, Agent ULP contacts them one final time to tell them that they are being put on "indefinite hold"; in other words, the protagonist's career as an IAA agent is terminated due to them having outlived their usefulness. He also reveals that the agency intends to keep the gas prices as they are for now, and officially cuts ties with the protagonist after paying them for their work.
Quite sardonic and not without his patriotism, the ULP contact justifies his and the organization's actions by saying that foreign terrorist groups and governments that conflict with America are ready to commit even more heinous actions that could bring harm to the American population (which Niko finds to be true while working against said terrorist groups). However, he doesn't deny that a lot of his actions are not for procuring public safety but rather to satisfy the government's sometimes greedy requests. In the opening cutscene of his first mission , it is revealed that he speaks some Serbian , the language of Niko's home country, as he says, "Just like the old country .", to which Niko replies, "Just like it".
As of 2017, he has a habit of saying "Goddammit" repetitively.
† denotes deceased • italics denotes a status determined by the player's choice.
Merryweather Security Consulting is a private military company and security contractor who appears as one of the main groups of antagonists in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Merryweather Security is a mercenary group led by Don Percival and dedicated to various military operations. According to their website , Merryweather is shown to be operating around the world, including the United States , Asia, Africa, Europe , South America, and the Middle East.
Merryweather appears to have several divisions, which are determined by the uniform and equipment they carry:
There exists a courier service announced [ 1 ] by Merryweather around the events of the mission Friend Request . The service transports art, artifacts, and perishables for museums and collectors. A train belonging to such is attacked by Michael De Santa and Trevor Philips and derailed .
As for their employees, Merryweather appears to primarily recruit ex- Military operators, ensuring well-skilled mercenaries. They are portrayed as incredibly aggressive and devoid of morals and ethics, happily committing wanton abuse against civilians they deem as a threat, Floyd being one notable example.
Merryweather is a parody of Academi , formerly known as Blackwater and Xe Services, a private military company infamous for alleged human rights violations during the Iraq War . Like Academi, Merryweather had changed its name following an incident that resulted in negative public relations. The styling of the name is also derived from Academi's former Blackwater logo.
Sometime before the game's start, Merryweather is cleared by the American government to begin operating on U.S. soil, both in service of the government and of other organizations in the private sector. However, it begins experiencing setbacks and problems almost immediately after their clearance.
During the story of Grand Theft Auto Online , Lester instructs the player to steal a Titan plane , two Buzzard Attack Choppers , a secretly-developed electromagnetic weapon , three containers full of weapons , and a large shipment of a base chemical for plastic explosives from Merryweather, to be used for his other, undisclosed projects. Lester also sends the player to steal over-the-counter stock transaction documentation and cargo guarded by Merryweather on numerous occasions. Underground crime lord Martin Madrazo has also hired the player to steal a van loaded with a painting from a Merryweather convoy , protect and escort his high-value contact from Merryweather bounty hunters , steal bricks of cocaine from Merryweather's naval base and shoot down a Merryweather air team with P-996 LAZERs . Trevor and Ron also hire the player to destroy Merryweather outposts and steal a shipment of diamonds from Merryweather .
They are also involved in numerous Gang Attacks around Los Santos, but unlike other gangs, defeating Merryweather in 5 separate gang attacks in one freemode session won't incur a bounty response or text message from their leadership.
On the finale of The Prison Break Heist , a few Merryweather mercenaries guarding a Buzzard Attack Chopper were killed off by a crew member in the Demolitions role instructed by Agent 14 to use to protect the Velum 5-Seater from the military's P-996 LAZERs in Blaine County and the rest of the crew and Maxim Rashkovsky from the police during their escape, and then fly back to the city with the whole crew to complete their mission.
During the events of the Humane Raid Heist, Agent 14 informs the crew that Humane Labs and Research , which used to be Maxim Rashkovsky and Dima Popov 's pharma company, was leased to a shadow company a few years ago, run in part by Don Percival. According to his intel, the lab is being used to develop nerve agents, presumably to be used by Merryweather.
From there, the crew is instructed to steal their armored LAPVs in Davis Quartz and take a gunship helicopter from their headquarters . The crew also manages to kill a Merryweather group stealthily to place the EMP in the lab , to be later triggered in the heist finale , only to kill more Merryweather mercenaries to get the data and escape in their stolen gunship (which was later destroyed to get rid of any evidence).
The crew would later encounter Merryweather in the Pacific Standard setup , where they have to steal a truck containing the thermal charges , evading any of their reinforcements on the way.
Merryweather is seen again during Special Cargo missions where Organizations steal numerous crates of supplies and weaponry particularly through convoys of helicopters and hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage caused to pursuing units .
During the Special Vehicle Work mission End of Transmission , Merryweather was hired by a SecuroServ client's business partner to get a dark ops transmitter located at the Palmer-Taylor Power Station . However, the client has hired the crew for the same objective, which ultimately managed to defeat Merryweather using a SecuroServ Armored Boxville .
Later, during the events of Grand Theft Auto V , Merryweather suffers many problematic setbacks at the hands of the game's main protagonists, particularly those of Trevor Philips . During the game, Merryweather has one of the experimental weapons they were guarding for the U.S. government stolen ; one of their planes, which was carrying millions of dollars in weaponry, hijacked and taken down ; one of their courier trains, carrying millions of dollars worth of priceless artifacts, derailed ; dozens of their men killed at a massive shootout in the Kortz Center , dozens of their men killed after an unsuccessful house invasion , dozens of their men killed while unsuccessfully attempting to stop a heist at the Union Depository Building and dozens of their men killed in a foundry while attempting to kill Franklin Clinton, Michael De Santa and Trevor Philips , and major shareholder/chief board member Devin Weston kidnapped, stuffed into a car , and rolled off a cliff.
By the end of the main storyline, Merryweather's reputation is in shambles after so many catastrophic failures, causing several of their regular clients to drop them from their payroll, including the U.S. government. After losing the government contract, Merryweather loses clearance to operate on American soil and is forced to shut down several operations they'd started in the country, costing them millions of dollars. Don Percival also buys out the majority of Weston's 11% stock in the company after his death.
In GTA V , the player can visit their official website, Merryweathersecurity.com. They can also buy their stocks in the Lcn-exchange.com website.
Despite all the negative setbacks suffered in the past, Merryweather continues to maintain operations in the State of San Andreas . Despite GTA V 's endings stating that Merryweather has lost its license to operate in the United States, they can still be found at the Los Santos Naval Port , and continue to have a major presence in San Andreas in Grand Theft Auto Online post- 2017 . This may be the result of corruption and bribery from Merryweather to continue operations on American soil, or Merryweather may continue unauthorized operations there regardless. Alternatively, this may simply be an developer oversight.
After the events of the San Andreas Mercenaries update, Merryweather finally pushed to their original fate, as the US government officially ends their relationship. However, this again seemingly makes no impact on Merryweather's presence in Los Santos, as the organization makes several appearances as enemies in later GTA Online updates, notably The Chop Shop and Agents of Sabotage . As a result, more trouble befalls them at the hands of the player, Organizations , and Motorcycle Clubs .
Merryweather again takes a prominent role, where they are seen in most of the Steal Supplies missions. The Organizations and Motorcycle Clubs have to steal much of their equipment, so they will be broken down in Bunkers and sold off for profit. They may show off again during Sell Supplies missions, where they will attempt to take out the groups for gaining profit with their stolen equipment. They sometimes raid the players' bunkers for their supplies to reclaim their stolen equipment and load it up in their Valkyrie, only to end with their guards dead and Valkyrie stolen by the players recovering their supplies .
Merryweather also takes a prominent role on most of the Mobile Operations led by Agent 14, where again they suffer various setbacks, as most of their supplies were destroyed , their salvage team on a downed freighter were killed , failed to destroy a target truck , got their signal jammers destroyed and failed to protect an important agent , and lastly, failed to secure superbikes with important data .
Merryweather is seen again during Air Freight Cargo missions. Organizations and Motorcycle Clubs continuously thwart their plans by destroying signal jammers , eliminating a bunch of guards on patrol at Humane Labs , or by destroying numerous Merryweather Cargo Planes and P-996 LAZERs in aerial dogfights.
Merryweather makes yet another appearance at the end of 2017 in The Doomsday Heist , conducting training and storing high-grade military vehicles such as the Avenger and Chernobog . Many of the latter are stolen at the behest of (and later for stopping) Avon Hertz .
They are first encountered during The Data Breaches , assaulting the Satellite Relay Station . It is revealed at the end of the mission they were evidently paid off by Bogdan's Crew .
In Act III, they are shown committing more illegal activities, kidnapping Agent 14 and ransoming him off to Avon and then later the International Affairs Agency .
In the middle of 2018 , Merryweather makes a few minor appearances during the Sell Goods missions where they will attempt to intercept Organizations and Motorcycle Clubs attempting to sell from their nightclubs .
Merryweather appears frequently during the preparation missions of The Diamond Casino Heist , where the player typically has no alternative but to steal items from them to use during the heist.
Lester Crest points out that Merryweather frequently receives shipments of unmarked weapons and shipments of heavily armored vehicles , the latter being field tested for performance , has possession of high-grade military body armor or covert operations suits complete with night vision and rappelling gear , or seeks hostile acquisition of high-grade plastic explosives owned by an oceanic salvage crew .
Merryweather appears frequently during the preparation missions of The Cayo Perico Heist , where the player can choose to steal items or vehicles from them to use during the heist.
It is possible for the player to acquire an approach method from Merryweather by boarding one of their submarines to steal its sonar deflector , stealing a strategic bomber from their hangar at Fort Zancudo , or stealing a prototype stealth helicopter or an attack boat from their headquarters.
One of the Unmarked Weapon preparations also has the player follow a Merryweather Valkyrie from their headquarters to a group of Merryweather operatives and an Avenger. The player must kill the operatives, steal the weapons from the Avenger, then parachute out of the Avenger as it lifts off.
In July 2021 , Merryweather makes multiple appearances in the Los Santos Tuners update, specifically in The Data Contract and The E.C.U Job .
During the events of The Data Contract, a hacker contacts KDJ to steal some valuable hard drives from Don Percival's bunker . The player first tails a Merryweather Skylift leaving the Palmer-Taylor Power Station making a delivery to the bunker. Once at the base, the players take a photo of the bunker entrance before sending it to Sessanta , who will then tell the player to hijack a Barrage from Merryweather guards leaving the bunker as it will contain a transponder which will allow for ease of access into the bunker.
To defend the hacker while he uploads the hard drives, the player will need to steal as many armaments from Merryweather scattered around Los Santos that they can use to fight back .
During the finale , using the equipment salvaged from the previous planning works, the player breaks into the Merryweather bunker and engages in a shootout with multiple operatives while stealing the hard drives. Upon exiting the bunker, the player drives to Elysian Island where Avi is holed up. Upon arriving, the player protects Avi as he uploads the hard drives from waves of Merryweather. Upon all the operatives being taken out, Avi and the player will part ways.
Merryweather will once more become a target during The E.C.U Job, as KDJ has the player steal an engine control unit from a Merryweather Freight Train .
First, the player must board a Merryweather guarded cargo ship at the Port of Los Santos to steal a container manifest and a cutting saw to be used during the heist.
Following this, the player will need to go to the location of the Merryweather freight train at either Palmer-Taylor Power Station or Davis Quartz in order to survey it for any vulnerabilities while staying clear of the guards, taking photos of the brake cylinders. Afterwards, the player will be instructed to look for the train schedule located inside a control tower which is heavily guarded by Merryweather operatives.
Upon completing all of the planning works, the player arrives at the train tracks where the freight train is scheduled to be headed through before destroying the brake cylinders to halt the train in its tracks. The player will then need to board the train, steal the engine control units while fighting off Merryweather, and evade them before delivering it to KDJ.
By December 2021, Merryweather's stock was still available on the stock market, but it was at an all-time low, along with the company's reputation. A stock insider comes up with a plan to artificially inflate their newly-bought shares in the company to make themselves money.
The insider contracts the F. Clinton and Partner agency to take care of a group of drug dealers that are selling bad product across Los Santos and making headlines . After the dealers are dealt with in a professional manner, agency co-founder Franklin Clinton spams Snapmatic with viral posts claiming he witnessed Merryweather taking down the drug dealers, which increases the company's reputation and thus their stock price. The agency is subsequently paid through the money made from the inflated shares by the insider.
Merryweather also planned to commission a new surveillance camera system in Los Santos and the F. Clinton and Partner agency are enlisted to destroy the equipment .
In October 2022 , during the events of The Criminal Enterprises update for Grand Theft Auto Online , UAP sightings were reported by local Blaine County residents, as seen in a Los Santos Meteor newspaper issue. It was eventually revealed to be UAVs (drones) being tested by Merryweather Security during a Los Santos Angels operation in 2023 .
In December 2022, Merryweather forces responded to a break-in at Humane Labs by criminals hired by the Fooliganz to steal precursor chemicals for an illegal acid ring . The fighting moved out of the Lab and to a derailed Humane Labs train near the Palmer-Taylor Power Station , where Merryweather failed to stop them from stealing even more chemicals and a state of the art Brickade 6x6 . They also have been hired by pharmaceutical companies to protect their shipments, only for their convoys to be destroyed along with their depot by the player at the Fooliganz's behest
As of 2023 , private military organizations have regained prominence in San Andreas, and Merryweather seizes the opportunity to enhance their public image. They actively organize large-scale recruitment campaigns, secure government contracts, and engage in illicit activities on the side. In response to this, Charlie Reed unites a diverse group comprising former military personnel, outcasts, mercenaries, and traditional criminals. Together, they form the Los Santos Angels , with Charlie selecting the GTA Online Protagonist as their Team Leader. Charlie declares that their main goal is Project Overthrow , which aims to eliminate Merryweather.
During the mission Shock & Awe , Charlie reveals that the Los Santos Angels have been contracted by the US government to address the consequences of Merryweather's significant failures. Following the GTA Online Protagonist's successful capture of Avi Schwartzman from Merryweather forces, Charlie also says, "Uncle Sam no longer sees Merryweather as a viable business partner." In order for the government to maintain plausible deniability, the Angels' objective is to recover the research and development materials the United States had outsourced to Merryweather. Once the classified cargo is retrieved from Merryweather's naval base, it is promptly transported to Fort Zancudo.
Once the player has completed the final mission, Charlie will call them with good news. The player is informed by Charlie that the divorce papers between Merryweather and the United States are finalized. A decade after Congress approved their operations on American soil, they are no longer contracted by the government.
Despite their fate and losing their contract with the US, Merryweather is shown to still be active in San Andreas and Los Santos as of December 2023. During The Duggan Robbery , Jamal informs the Protagonist that Merryweather is developing a bypass module , which is required to shut off the Arena War immobilizer and steal the target vehicle.
During The Cargo Ship Robbery , the Skylift is required to lift the container . Jamal informs the Protagonist that Merryweather has one and has to fight through them to steal it .
At the start of The McTony Robbery , in order to steal a vehicle from Tony McTony 's Kosatka , Jamal informs the Protagonist that Tony McTony's Kosatka is the same tech level as Merryweather Security's, so Jamal suggests going to Merryweather's naval headquarters on Elysian Island and scope out their submarine and take photographs of their Kosatka's helicopter bay, blueprints, and portable sonar jamming equipment in a case. Several mercenaries are guarding their Kosatka and patrolling their naval base during the mission.
In March 2024 , an unnamed militia is a potential robbery target for equipment and a getaway vehicle for the Cluckin' Bell factory raid . While no overt connections to Merryweather are made, the militia reuse the same members and vehicles as Merryweather.
In December 2024, former FIB agent Jodi Marshall and Pavel had the GTA Online Protagonist steal military gear and an experimental Tula from Merryweather Security as part of the planning for The Brute Force File and The Black Box File , respectively.
In March 2025 , Merryweather Security sometimes appear as gunrunning competitors of Oscar Guzman when the player goes to steal a shipment of weapons on Elysian Island.
Despite being adversaries, Merryweather offers multiple services to the GTA Online protagonist. Some of these services are also available as a CEO in the Interaction Menu , by navigating to the "CEO Abilities" section, albeit in the enhanced and Expanded & Enhanced editions only. The other way to acquire those services is by calling Merryweather.
V denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto V O denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto Online
The Federal Investigation Bureau (FIB) is a law enforcement agency in the Grand Theft Auto series, appearing in all of the HD Universe games.
The FIB is based on the real-life Federal Bureau of Investigation . It is suggested that, just like the real-life FBI, the FIB has the role of an internal intelligence agency and a federal criminal investigative body. As seen in Grand Theft Auto V , they also do domestic surveillance and counterterrorism. They may also be involved in other affairs, given the fact some of the UFOs that appear high above San Andreas after 100% Completion is attained will display the initials "FIB" on their upper hull when approached. According to Lester Crest , the FIB has also framed innocent taxi drivers for terrorism, tortured civil rights campaigners, and ruined "the best bits of the internet".
The FIB replaces the FBI from the 3D Universe games, which didn't use a fictional name for the agency. However, the FIB also makes an appearance in the mobile releases of 3D Universe games by Grove Street Games , although this change takes effect on the ped models; the corresponding vehicles still retain the "FBI" acronym in their names. This is not considered a canon change; in-game dialogue still correctly refers to the agency as the FBI.
With the wanted level system in Grand Theft Auto IV changed, FIB agents appear at four stars, unlike their 3D Universe counterparts, who chase the player at five stars. At four stars, small groups of the FIB agents will arrive in FIB Buffalo sedans to assist the LCPD . Their attacks will become more frequent at five and six stars.
Similarly to NOOSE TRU officers, FIB agents are equipped with body armor , allowing them to withstand more gunfire before going down. Their appearances may vary from every FIB NPC and they do not use any protective gear during pursuits, aside from the aforementioned body armor.
The agents employed by the FIB are often late-middle-aged Caucasian men, unlike the LCPD and NOOSE TRU, who employ young to middle-aged Caucasian, African-American and Hispanic officers. These agents wear different types of uniforms; some wear random clothes with a navy blue jacket with the FIB logo, while others wear black suit pants with a white collared shirt, a black sweater vest and a gold badge around their neck. All FIB Agents carry their FIB badges on the neck. FIB agents are expert drivers and doggedly follow the player.
In certain missions in both The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony , the FIB Agents employed are of African-American, Caucasian and Asian descent and wear different apparel, such as suits and ties, overcoats, blue FIB track coats and others who wear a tactical vest with the letters "FIB" printed in yellow on the front and the back.
In The Ballad of Gay Tony , the FIB closed a website for gold-buying. The website was goldforlife.biz (only accessible in TBoGT ), and due to complications between the FIB and the online store, the FIB shuttered the website, making the store unavailable for a 'temporary', undisclosed amount of time.
In Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , after gaining a four-star wanted level , the FIB will be dispatched to the area to assist the LCPD in killing the player.
They will drive black FIB Ranchers and carries Micro SMGs on foot (same weapon as the NOOSE TRU officers). The FIB Agents attack the player similarly to NOOSE TRU officers. Although hard to see, they seem to wear a similar clothing from that of the GTA IV equivalents, wearing grey/blueish jackets with brown pants. In some cutscenes , they are also depicted with blue caps with the letters "FIB" in white, as well as blue jackets.
The FIB returns in Grand Theft Auto V , playing a major role in the game storyline. Unlike previous games, the FIB will not pursue the player during regular police chases, being replaced by NOOSE TRU units. They are, however, more prominent in missions. The FIB is a prominent antagonistic faction in the game, along with Merryweather Security .
There appears to be different divisions which uses different outfits and behavior:
The FIB employs Gruppe Sechs guards similarly to the NOOSE.
In Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive Edition and the mobile versions of GTA III and GTA Liberty City Stories , the original FBI logo from the original 3D Universe trilogy titles are edited and rearranged as "FIB", a law enforcement agency which only exists in the HD Universe timeline of the series. This is an anachronistic error by Grove Street Games and not considered a canon change.
In-game dialogue still correctly refers to the agency as being the FBI.
The International Affairs Agency (IAA) is an intelligence agency featured in Grand Theft Auto IV (as the U.L. Paper ), The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The agency appears to be based on both the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency .
The IAA makes its first appearance in Grand Theft Auto IV , using the name of " United Liberty Paper Merchants " name as cover. The agency's name is never explicitly revealed; however, interior props found inside the United Liberty Paper contact 's office with the real-life CIA logo, alongside the character's cutscene model file name " cscia ", indirectly reveals which agency he and Karen Daniels are from.
In Episodes from Liberty City , men-in-black pedestrian models identified as "CIA" agents in the game files are introduced. These characters, however, are used for other unrelated law enforcement organizations (including NOOSE and FIB ). The character models are only seen as actual "CIA" agents during The Ballad of Gay Tony introductory mission cutscene in I Luv LC , featuring agent Aleks Thornton .
The agency was later given a proper in-universe name in Grand Theft Auto V , where it is confirmed that the United Liberty Paper is a front for the IAA, with both the United Liberty Paper contact and Karen Daniels being identified as IAA agents.
According to Steve Haines , the IAA is apparently heavily corrupted and abducts public funding for their own benefits - the IAA's moral flexibility is further confirmed by Karen at the end of The Humane Labs Raid , where she comments about how the IAA can get anyone to do their dirty work by paying them.
In 2008 , Karen Daniels is dispatched to watch over Niko Bellic upon his arrival in America , under the fake name of Michelle. The two have a date and things seem to be going well between them. Unbeknownst to Bellic, Karen was using him as a way for the IAA to find known criminals located in Liberty City . After Bellic obtains stolen cocaine for drug dealer Elizabeta Torres , Karen/Michelle exposes her real identity to Niko and an accomplice of his, Jacob Hughes . Karen orders Niko to hand over the cocaine, whilst also telling him that her superiors are interested in utilising Niko's abilities in their own operations.
A little while after this, Karen calls Niko and asks him to meet her at the United Liberty Paper building located in the city. This is where Niko is introduced to Bernard , codenamed Agent ULP. Bernard blackmails Bellic into doing several off-the-book jobs for the agency, under threat of leaking his criminal file to "those clowns in the FIB". These jobs include taking out a known government conspirator , eliminating a terrorist financer , and stealing a helicopter to aid in bringing down a known businessman that also financed terrorist acts . After the completion of all these jobs, Bernard agrees to help Niko locate the man he has been searching for.
In the meantime, Bernard introduces Niko to Jon Gravelli , the head of the Gambetti Crime Family . Gravelli also has Niko complete several tasks of his own. Meanwhile, the IAA locates and abducts Darko Brevic in Bucharest , Romania . When Darko gets smuggled into Liberty City, Bernard informs Niko that "he has his man" before cutting all ties with him. Niko then confronts Darko over his betrayal to his military unit before deciding his fate.
Around 2013 , during the events of the Heists update, Don Percival has scientists develop a nerve agent inside Humane Labs and Research . The IAA formulate a plan to extract the current data about the device to prevent its use by Percival or his private military, Merryweather .
By using the ethernet and getting in contact with a user named " Mr. Crest ", the Agency is put in touch with the GTA Online Protagonist and their associates. An agent known as Agent 14 visits the planner's house to discuss a job: breaking Maxim Rashkovsky , one of the founders of Humane Labs, out of Bolingbroke Penitentiary . After several different preparations , the GTA Online Protagonist successfully escorts Rashkovsky out the prison and out of the country. With Maxim freed, he was able to give the IAA details about the laboratory for them to plan a raid.
Agent 14 and the protagonists planning the Humane Labs raid
Sometime later, Agent 14 approaches the GTA Online Protagonist again to inform the crew about another heist: raiding Humane Labs to steal the nerve agent data located on the building's computer terminals. After multiple more job preparations , the heist is pulled off. The GTA Online Protagonist and their associates raid the Humane Labs and Research building and manage to steal the nerve agent data. Agent 14 expresses his gladness at the fact that the crew weren't lost on the job before telling them to meet another agent for the payment.
The crew meet Karen Daniels at the Land Act Reservoir , where she expresses her surprise that all the Agency had to do was pay the crew to get them to do their operations. Karen tells them that although the team was useful to the IAA, their usefulness has "run out". She hands them over a grenade to destroy the Valkyrie that was used in the raid, before leaving with an unnamed associate. With their main goal achieved, the IAA cut contact with the GTA Online Protagonist.
Later in 2013, the IAA begin to lose funding as terrorist activity had calmed down. This causes the IAA and the FIB to be involved in a bureaucratic fight over which agency will receive more government funding. The IAA kidnap Ferdinand Kerimov , a home theater technician who associated with an alleged terrorist, and fake his death to "remove him from the record". After a break-in at the Los Santos County Coroner Office orchestrated by the FIB that confirmed Kerimov was alive, the IAA move him to their headquarters for torture and interrogation.
Karen and another agent interrogating Mr. K
Michael De Santa , on Steve Haines ' orders, abducts Kerimov in the middle of a torture session , with the help of Trevor Philips and Franklin Clinton . Michael and Dave Norton use the knowledge gained from Trevor and Steve torturing Ferdinand to take out Tahir Javan , the alleged terrorist. Tahir's death being under the hands of the FIB gives them a funding advantage over the IAA.
Haines later gets Michael, Trevor, and Franklin to hijack an IAA funding truck containing corruption-related fundings from drugs. This further decreases the Agency's funding.
Whilst Michael and Trevor are in hiding in Sandy Shores from the Madrazo Cartel , Steve approaches them yet again with the claim that the Agency, ironically, has tasked Humane Labs and Research to develop a strong neurotoxin. When it is finished, the IAA would release the neurotoxin in a major metropolitan area and pass it off as a terrorist attack to hopefully re-instate their budget due to public demand to stop terrorism. After acquiring necessary funding via a bank robbery, the alleged plan is foiled by Steve, Dave, and Michael, in yet another infiltration of the facility . Said operation ends up with Haines captured, but the helicopter piloted by Trevor that is carrying the refrigeration unit with the neurotoxin manages to fly away.
With the events of The Humane Lab Raid that occurred a few months prior, it is unknown whether the neurotoxin was being developed by the IAA or potentially Merryweather again. But, considering the amount of IAA guards encountered whilst Michael, Steve, and Dave escaped the lab, it is likely that the IAA themselves were having the toxin created.
IAA agents during the standoff at the Kortz Center
An IAA team led by Bernard later manages to intercept Michael, Dave, Steve, and FIB associate Andreas Sanchez during a confrontation at the Kortz Center in Los Santos . The agents corner the four men and hold them at gunpoint, up until rogue FIB agents and Merryweather Security ambush the entire group. This leads to a four-way firefight, and most of the IAA agents are killed except for Bernard, who canonically survives the incident.
Following the shootout, Dave Norton manages to pin the blame for all prior events onto Sanchez. Because Sanchez is already dead, having been killed by Haines during the Kortz Center shootout, the IAA stop pursuing the FIB.
In 2017 , during the events of The Doomsday Heist update, the IAA is involved in stopping a plot by Avon Hertz and his AI neural network Cliffford to destroy the surface world with nuclear weapons. The event includes working with some rogue Russian agents and a group of operatives led by Agent 14.
In the summer of 2022 , during the events of The Criminal Enterprises , the IAA hires the GTA Online Protagonist as a special field agent to investigate a budding criminal conspiracy in Southern San Andreas. Through their investigation, the protagonist discovers the Duggan Crime Family to be behind the recent increase of gasoline prices in the state, as Mason Duggan has purchased Cliffford's backup drives from corrupt FIB agents and used the AI to manipulate the prices for the Duggans' personal profit. In the end, the protagonist kills Mason , recovers the drives, and delivers them to the IAA, after which the agency terminates their employment contract as the protagonist is no longer useful to them.
While the IAA do work to protect America, their methods in doing so can be highly pragmatic and morally gray, such as using extreme interrogation techniques and threats of forcing objects into their detainees' orifices.
The IAA are known to use criminals for off-the-book missions and will use blackmail, threats, or simple payment to motivate them. As stated above, Steve Haines claims they are corrupt and they have indeed proven to be morally flexible when needed, but it should be noted that Haines himself was highly corrupt, and his career was apparently threatened.
In an apparent contradiction to Haines' accusations that the IAA created a chemical weapon at the Humane Labs, an IAA agent known as Agent 14 would organize a similar raid on the Humane Labs himself, claiming that the nerve agent there is being developed by Merryweather . While either of them could potentially be lying, 14 would ultimately prove to be more trustworthy than Haines, as the IAA seems to retain assets rather than kill off loose ends, as Haines would try to do with those that he conscripted. Subsequent operations at the Humane Labs would lend further credence to Agent 14's claims as a gunrunning operation, a casino heist prep, and a security contract show that the lab is operated by Merryweather and not the IAA.
The IAA is also involved in the gunrunning business. Though this may also be off-the-books, they are known to use motorcycle gangs and organizations to do sales and resupplies, as well as stop unsanctioned sales. It is also known that there may be rogue agents within the agency, as seen in the mission Work Dispute .
In addition to their apparent rivalry with the FIB, the IAA seem to dislike Merryweather, as Agent 14 can be quoted as saying that while Merryweather may work government contracts, it doesn't even remotely make them the "good" guys, which the IAA seem to consider themselves. They also appear to have a far more openly hostile interaction with Merryweather compared to the FIB, as IAA agents have been kidnapped by the mercenaries while the IAA frequently attempts to stop Merryweather operations such as their weapon sales.
According to Mrs. Rackman, there seems to be a system in place that acts as an insurance against potential infighting, as checks won't cash if a number of agents are dead. Apparently it is to prevent agents from killing each other if they have a conflict with one another.
IAA agents can be seen wearing various tops, of different colors. They can wear either a tucked-in polo, a jacket, or a sweater. They sometimes may wear a lanyard around their necks with an ID on it, a badge and gun holster made for a Glock on their belts, a communication device on their right ear, sometimes a police-like tool belt, and a watch on their left wrist.
The Ballas are a street gang based in Los Santos in both the 3D Universe and the HD Universe . Ballas could refer to:
The Grove Street Families (a.k.a "Families" or "GSF", "The Grove", or "Groves") is a gang featured in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . It is the main protagonistic group in the game, as the game's protagonist ( Carl Johnson ) is among its leaders.
The Grove Street Families is an African-American street gang and one of the oldest street gangs in Los Santos , San Andreas . They are also the native gang of protagonist Carl Johnson . They are the sworn enemy of the Ballas , an intense and ongoing rivalry as part of the Ballas-Grove Street War . The Families also maintain rivalries with the two Mexican gangs in Los Santos – the Los Santos Vagos and the Varrios Los Aztecas . Their rivalry with the Varrios Los Aztecas is not nearly as intense as it is with the Ballas and Vagos. However, both gangs will still commonly fight. Kendl (sister of Grove Street Leader Sweet and CJ) ends up dating a high-ranking member of the Aztecas while CJ befriends him – much to Sweet's disapproval.
Most of their territory can be found in the poorer/run-down neighborhoods in the far east of the city, though they also have small pockets of territory elsewhere – including the rich area of Temple and the popular tourist destination of Santa Maria Beach . They are easily identifiable by their green gang color.
They are headed by Sean "Sweet" Johnson and Carl Johnson , as well as former lieutenants and OGs, Lance "Ryder" Wilson and Melvin "Big Smoke" Harris .
As far as street gangs in GTA San Andreas go, the GSF are depicted as more honorable than their rival gangs. Coming from a background of older traditions, they are against hard drugs being sold on their turf as opposed to the Ballas and Vagos. [ 2 ] [ 3 ] They are very stubborn and Sweet refuses to adapt to changes in the Los Santos criminal underworld. They are well known, however, for committing numerous other crimes and violent acts including gun running/arms-trafficking, gang-banging, gang warfare, murder, robbery, burglary/theft, gang-related homicide, vandalism, and street violence.
GSF members drive the Greenwood , Voodoo , and Savanna . Their favorite radio station is the Radio Los Santos . They also have three different skins that will walk and drive around their territories.
Initially, in the beginning of the game, Grove Street members are mostly unarmed, with some carrying pistols , and they will start carrying Tec-9s after the completion of Robbing Uncle Sam . If the player sprays over all tags in Los Santos, they will wield Desert Eagles , SMGs , and knives instead. They can occasionally be seen smoking marijuana and drinking malt liquor while talking and hanging around in groups. Green clothing is a dead give-away and members will often flash their gang handsigns. Upon spotting a Balla , Vago , or Azteca gang member , they will often engage in a violent confrontation (especially Ballas). Members of the families, like other pedestrians , will often comment on CJ's attire, physical looks, or his vehicle.
Their territory includes:
Carl can buy some GSF apparels in many clothing retailers.
Most Wanted members of Grove Street Families, seen on the San Andreas Local Business Advertiser's Guide (Official GTA San Andreas manual).
The Grove Street Families were formed in Ganton (initially in Grove Street) before spreading to the rest of Ganton and other neighborhoods. History before this time period (late 80s) is unknown, and much of what happened to the Families during the late 80s is also unknown. However, what is known is that the Families are one of the oldest gangs in Los Santos – this possibly means that they are older than the Ballas (who formed during the 1970s) – giving the possibility that the Families evolved from the 1960s, or possibly even earlier.
The Families also have a history of a traditional, intense, and bloody rivalry with the Ballas. Specifically when the gang war started is unknown, but the rivalry between the two gangs was in full swing as early as 1987 . The start and reason of their rivalry with the Los Santos Mexican gangs is unknown, though their rivalry with the Vagos has most likely developed due to their expansion and growth around their territory along with their heavy crack-cocaine influence. Despite being divided into different sets, the Families were much more united before the early 1990s.
While Sweet is adamantly anti-narcotic, Smoke believes that the GSF have fallen from power because of his refusal to sell drugs. [ 4 ] Their unwillingness to enter the drug trade has dragged the Grove Street Families out of prominence in the years leading up to the game's storyline. The fact that Sweet insists the gang shouldn't deal in narcotics, the deaths of OGs such as Tony , Big Devil , and Little Devil , and the abandonment of OGs such as Big Bear and B Dup has largely weakened them from their previous dominant position in Los Santos. Likewise, the splitting of the Grove Families into different enemy sets – the Temple Drive Families and the Seville Boulevard Families has massively increased violence from within the families and further weakened them. The fact that the Ballas are extremely successful at spreading crack cocaine into their territory to weaken the Families (also in-part due to Big Smoke's involvement) has led to the sorry state of the GSF upon CJ's return from Liberty City in 1992 .
Prior to 1992, the Families also controlled the southern portion of East Los Santos and Idlewood (although they lost Idlewood before 1987, as during the mission Cleaning the Hood , Carl seems to know it is Ballas turf). They likely also controlled Willowfield due to Emmet's presence there; specifically the Seville Boulevard Families.
During the beginning of the game, and upon Carl Johnson's return from Liberty City , the Grove Street Families are the smallest, least powerful, and least influential gang in Los Santos . A variety of problems has led to their demise – including the deaths of many high-ranking members/OGs ( Little Devil , Big Devil , Tony ) along with the death of Sweet's (leader of the Grove Street Families) family members ( Brian Johnson and Beverly Johnson ). On top of this, the Grove Street Families have split up into different warring sets (Temple Drive Families and the Seville Boulevard Families) – causing inter-hostilities.
Further, their refusal to enter the drugs trade (especially crack cocaine ) has put them at a severe disadvantage to the other gangs (such as the Ballas), who are able to make much profit from this. The GSF also face the major problem of crack-cocaine spread throughout their territory (largely due to the Ballas and Big Smoke). Crack-cocaine turns members into weak and hopeless addicts and influences high-ranking members with the money that can be made from the drugs trade (as is the case with B Dup ); thus, drawing them away from gang-banging.
The Ballas attempt to finish off the remaining OGs in a drive-by shooting as they are leaving the funeral of Beverly Johnson. However, they are only successful at destroying Big Smoke's car . The remaining OGs escape to Grove Street on bicycles while avoiding the Ballas car.
The Grove Street Families then attempt to decrease the influence of crack-cocaine in their territory by killing some Ballas members at a crack house in Idlewood. Sweet orders CJ and Ryder for the mission, and they successfully kill the Ballas inside the house. This gradually decreases the influence of crack-cocaine in GSF territory, and drug dealers become less prevalent on the streets in Ganton .
In retaliation for the events of the previous mission, the Kilo Tray Ballas attempt a drive-by on Grove Street . Luckily, Sweet, CJ, Ryder, and Big Smoke are able to catch them on the way to Grove Street while pulling out of a Cluckin' Bell drive-thru in Willowfield. A car chase follows, and the OGs are able to destroy the car and kill the Ballas.
The Grove Street Families then gain a substantial victory of the Ballas when CJ, Ryder, Sweet, and Big Smoke went into the Ballas' territories and killed more than a dozen of the Rollin' Heights Ballas and the Kilo Tray Ballas in a drive-by shooting .
Sweet then goes to his girlfriend's house in Playa del Seville, but unfortunately, he is caught by the Seville Boulevard Families (an enemy Grove set). CJ then killed every Seville Boulevard Families member who was attacking Sweet. Sweet states that there needs to be an end to "green-on-green" violence if the GSF are ever able to become strong again.
CJ and Ryder stole various weaponry and ammunition in Los Santos in the missions Home Invasion , Catalyst , and Robbing Uncle Sam . In doing so, the Grove Street Families become better equipped and start carrying Tec-9 submachine guns.
Sweet then gets word that a former unnamed member of the Grove Street Families (now a Balla) has been selling drugs, and is now in-hiding with the Ballas at Glen Park. Sweet orders CJ to kill him . CJ then kills the traitor and many other Ballas at Glen Park during a gang war. Following the gang war, the Grove Street Families gain the territory of Glen Park from the Ballas. At this point, the GSF are now much stronger and are on a more equal footing with the Ballas.
The Ballas, in retaliation for the previous attacks, attempt to start a gang war right on Grove Street . Luckily, a member of the Families is able to catch the Ballas on the way and warn Sweet and the OGs, who are then able to prepare. They block off Grove Street and prepare themselves. CJ, Sweet, and other members of the GSF are then able to successfully defend their territory.
The Ballas then hold a funeral for Little Weasel , a Ballas member whom CJ and Smoke previously killed in a drive-by shooting. Many Ballas OGs are attending the funeral (including Kane of the Front Yard Ballas ). CJ, Sweet, and members of the GSF are able to crash the funeral and kill many high-ranking Ballas members (including Kane).
In an attempt to fully bring the Grove Street Families back to their full power, a meeting is organized between the three different Family sets (Ganton, Playa de Seville, and Temple) at the Jefferson Motel . Sweet, CJ, Big Smoke, and Ryder attend the meeting, and Sweet is voted the representative for the Grove Street Families. However, the LSPD and S.W.A.T. raids and breaks-up the meeting, and a battle ensues inside the motel between Families gang members and S.W.A.T. officers. Luckily, CJ managed to rescue Sweet, and they are able to escape with the help of Big Smoke and Ryder.
In an attempt to fully finish the Ballas, a large gang war is organized between the Ballas and the Families under the Mulholland Intersection . However, Sweet is shot and injured, and the police manage to break up the gang war. Sweet is then arrested and sent to a prison hospital upstate, while CJ is captured by C.R.A.S.H. and warned to stay away from Big Smoke. At this point, both Ryder and Big Smoke have completely defected from the Grove Street Families and into the crack-cocaine business, aligning themselves with C.R.A.S.H. and the Ballas, as well as handing over the green Sabre involved in the murder of Carl's mother to C.R.A.S.H. officers.
This leaves the GSF with no leaders or OGs. They soon fall from power again and become subservient to the Ballas and Vagos. Remaining GSF members are either dead, imprisoned, addicted to drugs, go into hiding, left the gang, defect to the Ballas, or become employed by Big Smoke and his drug organization (as seen in the drug courier missions). The Ballas resume spreading crack-cocaine through their territory again to control them. Soon enough, the Ballas manage to control the entirety of what had been GSF territory – including Ganton and Grove Street, Playa del Seville, Temple, the Vinewood Cemetery, and Santa Maria Beach. They also recapture back Glen Park. The Families and their allies, the Varrios Los Aztecas (who begin to suffer the same fate), essentially become nearly defunct and inactive and the Ballas and Vagos control the streets of Los Santos. Carl is forced to continue working for C.R.A.S.H. away from the city in exile.
The Grove Street Families then have no more significance throughout the rest of the middle-game, apart for some who work with Big Smoke and Ryder while CJ becomes enveloped in a new lifestyle away from gang-banging and "hood life" while Sweet is incarcerated.
However, Sweet's release from prison, courtesy of Mike Toreno , [ 5 ] and CJ's second return to Los Santos with Sweet allows the gang to rise and reform again (now co-headed by Carl and Sweet Johnson) and regain most of their lost turf from the Ballas while destroying the crack-cocaine influence again during the missions Home Coming , Beat Down on B Dup , and Grove 4 Life . That same year, Big Smoke's Crack Palace is destroyed by Frank Tenpenny by shooting a generator during the final mission – greatly diminishing the crack-cocaine trade in Los Santos and further strengthening the position of the Families.
Depending on the player's actions, it is possible to take some or all of the Ballas' and Vagos' turf for the GSF as part of the gang warfare feature , causing the GSF to potentially become the largest and most powerful gang in Los Santos with no major threats anymore. If the player successfully takes over the entire turf in Los Santos , then their turfs will no longer come under attack and thanks to Carl's efforts in the neighboring cities of San Fierro and Las Venturas, have powerful allies in the Mountain Cloud Boys Triad gang from San Fierro, numerous businesses Carl started generating revenue from, including the Triads' Four Dragons Casino after robbing the three Liberty City Italian Mafiosi Wiseguys Mafia Families (Leone Family Sindacco Family Forelli Family)-owned Caligula's Casino in Casino Heist, and much more.
In Grand Theft Auto V , it is mentioned that a street gang named " The Families " originally had a set known as the " Grove Street Families ", which was named after a street in Davis , rather than the one in Ganton from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . The gang set existed in the 1990s and disbanded at some point before 2013.
However, as confirmed by Rockstar Games several times, the timeline of each Grand Theft Auto universe is designed to be completely separate to each other so that no physically appearing characters or storylines would overlap, therefore the events of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (set in the 3D Universe ) have never happened in the Grand Theft Auto V 's timeline (set in the HD Universe ), the characters from GTA San Andreas have never existed in GTA V 's canon and, according to former VP of Creativity for Rockstar Games Dan Houser , previous universe characters are treated as "mythical characters from a bygone era", except in-game radio station personalities and celebrities. [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
An easter egg in Grand Theft Auto IV , the game that started the HD Universe canon, suggests that Carl Johnson, along with the other 3D Universe protagonists, are dead. However, this is simply to commemorate the game being the beginning of a new era and it is not considered canon. Rockstar Games have stated in a Q&A on Rockstar Newswire that this was just "a little joke to our fans" . [ 8 ]
There are three distinct sets of the Grove Street Families:
The sets get their name from their territory. For example, the Grove Street Families get their name from their formation in Grove Street, Ganton. The Seville Boulevard Families get their name from their territory – Playa del Seville, and the Temple Drive Families get their name from their main turf – Temple. All sets are part of the "Family" banner, and all wear green. The differences are based on different territories/neighborhoods, and possibly a different approach to the drugs trade. It is known the Grove Street Families are heavily against drug trafficking, but it is possible that the Seville Boulevard and Temple Drive Families are involved with narcotics due to them splitting from the Grove Street Families, though this is never mentioned in the game. Either way, they eventually reunite as allied sets with the Grove Street Families resuming the position of the most dominant, active, and powerful set, meaning that any narcotics business the other family sets were involved with would have ended.
Historically, all sets were originally one with the Grove Street Families, but split up from the GSF during the five years of Carl's absence. Earlier in the game, they are not on good terms with each other, [ 9 ] primarily because of Grove Street's opposition to drug trafficking, which is one reason for why the gang has weakened, but as stated, they are later allied and reunited again.
Interestingly, the Family-on-Family violence is only referenced in the games storyline. If the player actually walks into Playa del Seville or Temple, the families there will react exactly the same as they would in Ganton and Grove Street. CJ can even recruit members in these areas. The only actual hostilties between family sets occurs during the mission Sweet's Girl , in which the Seville Boulevard Families react with hostility to CJ. It is unknown why the different family sets do not react with hostility outside of this mission or within the game's lore.
The Los Santos Vagos are a Mexican street gang operating out of Los Santos .
The Triads are members of a criminal organization originating from China . They can be described as the Chinese Mafia. Triad gangs have appeared in several Grand Theft Auto games.
Las Venturas :
The Leone Crime Family is an Italian - American Mafia criminal organization in the 3D Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series, originating from Sicily (referred to by Salvatore Leone as "the old country") whose main base of operations is in Liberty City .
The Leones are based on the Corleone Family from The Godfather movie; this is also supported by their involvement in the gambling industry. They are the secondary antagonists in Grand Theft Auto III , a minor group of enemies in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto Advance , and a group of allies in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , as the game's protagonist , Toni Cipriani , is a high ranking member in the family.
The Leone family, headed by Salvatore Leone, was active in Las Venturas , San Andreas , circa 1992 , where they held a stake in Caligula's Casino with the Sindacco and Forelli families, in an attempt to unite the organizations into one Mafia family. The casino was later robbed in a heist organised by former ally Carl Johnson with the assistance of Zero and the Triads .
At some point between 1992 and 1998, the Leones abandoned their investments in Las Venturas and returned to Liberty City.
By 1998, the Leones had become engaged in a three-way gang war with the Sindacco and Forelli families in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . The hostilities lead to Salvatore being arrested , the assassination of Forelli-controlled Mayor Roger C. Hole , the death of Sindacco family Don Paulie Sindacco and the bombing and destruction of Fort Staunton . The Leones also manage to weaken the Sicilian Mafia , led by Uncle Leone and Massimo Torini , making them the only Mafia family with significant power in the city.
The Leone family also regains ownership of Paulie's Revue Bar in the city's Red Light District , renaming it Luigi's Sex Club 7 . They also gain new territories in the Red Light District and parts of both Hepburn Heights and Chinatown . However, these events lead to a weakening of the Leone family, with the Diablos and Triads moving into Portland . Hostilities with the Yakuza also remain, as Toni Cipriani murders the Yakuza leader, Kazuki Kasen . Having failed to install Donald Love as Mayor of Liberty City, the Leones begin to control new Mayor Miles O'Donovan after rescuing him from the Sicilian Mafia.
The Leones appear in Grand Theft Auto Advance , ambiguously referred to as "The Mafia".
As seen during the events of the game, they still have full control of the Portland Harbor and still use the docks for smuggling in the year 2000 . Two small-time associates of the Mafia, Vinnie and Mike , are "errand boys" for the Mafia, receiving orders from Mafia members at Momma's Restaurante . The two other families are absent and are never mentioned, as by this point, the Sindaccos are wiped out from Liberty City and the Forellis are severely weakened.
In the early missions, Mike (under orders of Vinnie) is sent by the Mafia to collect money from the Southside Hoods who don't want to pay them. At first reluctant, Mike does so and becomes an enemy of the Hoods.
Later in the storyline, Yakuza co-leader Asuka Kasen employs Mike to extract revenge on the Mafia using a Katana , a Kasen family heirloom implied to be the same one taken from her late brother Kazuki. She has Mike kidnap at least fifteen Leone Family gang members, with the intention of trafficking them to Asia for use as servants. The Mafia eventually attempt to ambush Asuka in Wichita Gardens during the mission Assault Joint , but she flees the scene in time. Mike kills the Mafia hitmen shortly before defeating King Courtney and the Uptown Yardies , and leaving Liberty City.
By 2001 the Leone family have lost some power in the city, although they remain one of the strongest crime syndicates in the city. Most of the territory they had gained in Chinatown is lost to the Triads whilst the Diablos have taken control of Hepburn Heights, as predicted by Toni Cipriani in 1998. This leads to shootouts between the Leones and the Triads around the Red Light District and Chinatown. The Colombian Cartel have also been undermining the Leone family, selling SPANK from the factory on freighter in Portland Harbor and through noodle stands. This sparks major hostilities in and around Trenton, the business place of Salvatore's son Joey , and also around Portland Harbor. The Leone Family first launch a full-scale war against the Triads. This leads to the death of three Triad warlords and the destruction of the Triads' Fish Factory . The Cartel too are weakened with the destruction of their freighter in Portland Harbor. Whilst neither conflict with the Triads or Cartel is resolved, both appear to be going in the Leone's favour.
However, Salvatore's paranoia sets in when his wife, Maria Latore , inadvertently claims she is having an affair with Leone associate Claude . Salvatore rigs a car with a bomb in an attempt to kill Claude, but Maria manages to warn Claude of this plot. The two meet at a small jetty with the co-leader of the Yakuza, Asuka Kasen , who has Claude kill Salvatore to prove that he has severed all ties with the Leone Family. Following this, the Leones will shoot at Claude on sight if he is spotted in their territory. It is unknown who becomes Leone Don following Salvatore's death.
In Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , Leone henchmen wear black suits, some with sunglasses. In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , the mobsters (presumed to be the Leone Family) dress in either brown leather jackets with gray pants, light blue shirts with chains or in black jogging suits.
The official gang car of the Leone family is the Mafia Sentinel , a modified jet black (gray in GTA III ) version of the Sentinel which is supercharged only in GTA Liberty City Stories . However, there are also uniquely jet black versions of other cars either used by the Leone family or located near their property in both GTA III and GTA Liberty City Stories . These include a Rumpo used by the Leones in the original PS2 version of Under Surveillance , a Banshee owned by Salvatore Leone in The Trouble With Triads , a Pony used by Toni Cipriani in Taking the Peace , a Kuruma used by former Capo Vincenzo Cilli and parked outside his house, and a PCJ-600 parked outside Salvatore Leone's mansion.
Their favorite radio station is Double Clef FM . This radio station is also favored by the city's other Mafia families (and the Leones' biggest enemies), the Forellis and the Sindaccos. In GTA III , they might sometimes listen to Flashback FM .
The Mafia are very dangerous once hostile, capable of making quick work of vehicles if the player drives within range of their shotguns.
A denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto Advance
The Forelli Crime Family is an Italian - American Mafia family based in Liberty City that appears in Grand Theft Auto III (as the Forelli Brothers ), the main antagonists in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , as well as the secondary antagonists in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories alongside the Sindacco Crime Family and the Liberty City Triads . They also make minor appearances in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
The Forelli Crime Family is an Italian-American Mafia of unknown origin. They operate at Marco Forelli 's Italian restaurant as a front for several criminal businesses (including drug running as of 1986 ).
Acting under orders from Sonny Forelli , the Don of the organization, Forelli Family associate Tommy Vercetti was sent to kill a key mobster in Harwood , Liberty City , in 1971 . However, the conflict escalated, being part of a setup by Sonny, and when Tommy arrived in Harwood he was confronted by eleven hitmen. Tommy not only survived the ambush but killed all eleven men (earning the nickname " The Harwood Butcher " in the process) before being arrested. Sonny's connections meant that Tommy was spared the death penalty and was instead sentenced to fifteen years in prison.
In 1984 , Sonny Forelli's cousin Giorgio Forelli attempts to kill famous singer Phil Collins in Vice City due to his manager, Barry Mickelthwaite , owing Giorgio Forelli $3 million. Victor Vance rescues Phil and Barry, killing Giorgio's hitmen in the process, before Barry decides to pay Giorgio the money he is owed.
By 1986 , the Forelli Family was the most powerful Mafia family in Liberty City. The Forellis decided to expand "down south" to Florida by establishing relations with local Vice City drug cartels. Tommy Vercetti, fresh out of prison, and crooked lawyer Ken Rosenberg were selected by Sonny to conduct a deal with Lance and Victor Vance . However, Ricardo Diaz , the city's top drug baron, had found out about the deal through Gonzalez .
Angered by the fact that the deal was organized through Juan Cortez rather than him, Diaz hires three goons to ambush the deal, which results in the deaths of Harry , Lee and Victor. Following this, Tommy splits from the Forellis, taking over the drug trade in Vice City. Angered, Sonny comes to Vice City personally to claim Tommy's profits, which Sonny sees as his by right, and is killed in the conflict. After Sonny's death, Marco Forelli became the family's new Don.
In 1992 , the Caligula's Palace casino in Las Venturas , San Andreas , was split between the Forelli, Sindacco, and Leone families. The Families could not decide between themselves who should run the casino. Therefore, former Forelli lawyer Ken Rosenberg was put forward as a neutral party. Rosenberg would act as a mediator between the families, under threat of death should any war ignite.
While Johnny Sindacco was at the hospital after being traumatized by Carl Johnson , Marco Forelli decided to take the opportunity to kill Johnny by sending his goons to hijack his ambulance . Rosenberg becomes aware of the hit and sends Carl to retrieve Johnny's ambulance before a war is ignited between the families. However, Johnny later dies of a heart attack after seeing Carl again, and Salvatore Leone flies to Las Venturas to reclaim the money that he invested in the casino from Rosenberg. Marco later sends Forelli hitmen to kill Salvatore, who learns of the hit and sends Carl to kill the hitmen before they arrive in Las Venturas. The hit leads Salvatore to strike back by sending Carl to Liberty City , to murder Marco at Marco's Bistro .
As of 1998 , the Forellis deal with the death of Mayor Roger C. Hole , who was working for Franco Forelli , the leader of the Forellis following Marco's demise. Franco soon finds another representative, Miles O'Donovan , to run against Donald Love , who was representing the Leone Family, in the race to become Liberty City's mayor. O'Donovan wins the race after Love's connections to the Leones are revealed .
Later on, a war is sparked between the Forellis and the Sindaccos in Fort Staunton , secretly caused by the Sicilian Mob , after the Sindaccos begin invading Forelli territory on Staunton Island . Toni Cipriani is caught up in the conflict, as Salvatore Leone takes advantage of the war to foil Massimo Torini 's plans to take over the city. The war weakens both families as up-and-coming gangs like the Uptown Yardies and the Yakuza take over their former territories. The families eventually try to broker a truce , only for Salvatore to use Paulie Sindacco 's car to kill the Forellis attending the peace meeting. As the war rages on, the Forellis lose their territory in Shoreside Vale , after Toni Cipriani and the Southside Hoods take over the last turf the Forellis maintain a presence in. The war continues until Paulie Sindacco is killed by Toni while trying to flee Liberty City.
The Forellis later target the Yakuza, after Kazuki Kasen took over most of their territory on Staunton Island and began stocking up on powerful weapons, such as a tank . The Forellis catch Kazuki's wife Toshiko Kasen attending the Fort Staunton Opera House with Toni Cipriani and attempt to kill her (not knowing that Toshiko is opposed to her husband's plots). The Forellis are later completely weakened after their main base of operations, Fort Staunton, is destroyed by underground explosives in the old subway line running through southern Staunton Island. Whether Franco was killed in the explosion is unknown, but the family was left devastated by the attack.
By 2001, the weakened Forelli Family is known as the Forelli Brothers , and they have been seemingly reduced to a small-time street gang in Liberty City due to the events of 1998.
A high-ranking member of the gang, Mike Forelli , is killed in a car explosion by Claude , who rigged his car with an engine bomb on orders from Joey Leone . Joey soon after orders Claude to dispose of the corpse of a high-ranking Forelli member lying in a Manana at Greasy Joe's . After evading the Forellis, Claude disposes of the car at Harwood Autocrusher and Junkyard .
In GTA Liberty City Stories , Forelli henchmen don blue/dark red shirts with light blue/white jackets over and carry pistols. In GTA III , they are dressed like the Leones as seen in one of Joey Leone's missions, while the dead mobster in the Manana looks like a Leone too, except that he has no gloves. In GTA Vice City , the Forellis are seen wearing light blue or brown Hawaiian shirts. In GTA San Andreas , the mobsters (presumed to be the Forelli's) either dress in brown jackets, light green shirts with black pants or black jogging suits. In GTA Vice City Stories , the Forelli hitmen seen in a couple of missions wear dark colored shirts with black jackets over, identical to the Mendez Cartel .
A denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto Advance
VCS denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories
Staunton Island
Las Venturas :
The Sindacco Crime Family is an Italian - American Mafia family based in Liberty City and Las Venturas , and the secondary group of antagonists in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
In 1992 (the setting of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ), after Sonny Forelli 's death in 1986, the Sindaccos thought they "ran things", according to Salvatore Leone . Capitalizing on the Forelli Crime Family 's weakened influence, the Sindaccos attempted to expand their business interests in Las Venturas by establishing Caligula's Casino , but this required an investment from the other mob families in Liberty City : the Forellis and the Leones .
While the Forellis were easily convinced to invest in the casino, Salvatore Leone was hesitant to lend $5 million to the Sindaccos. Both outfits argued over who should run the casino, and so Ken Rosenberg , a former lawyer and Forelli associate, was ultimately chosen to act as a middleman. While all three families would own equal stakes in the casino, Rosenberg would manage it and try to maintain peace between the families under threat of death.
In Las Venturas, the Sindacco family was represented by Johnny Sindacco , who was in charge of day-to-day operations while Paulie was expanding territory in Liberty City. During the events of GTA San Andreas , Johnny is captured after trying to sabotage the rival Triads -run casino, the Four Dragons Casino . He is then interrogated by being tied onto a car driven by Carl Johnson , until he reveals which family he works for.
The psychological and physical trauma from the incident leads to Johnny going into a coma. After recovering, he encounters Carl a second time, who is accompanying Rosenberg to a meeting with the Sindaccos at their abattoir . The shock leads Johnny to suffer a fatal heart attack, and Carl is forced to protect Rosenberg as they escape from the abattoir while pursued by Sindacco mobsters.
By 1998, Paulie Sindacco decided to expand further throughout Liberty City, moving into Leone Family territory in Chinatown and the Red Light District . This begins a war between the Sindaccos and Leones for control of Portland , during which JD O'Toole , a Sindacco associate running Paulie's Revue Bar in the Red Light District, is persuaded to defect to the Leones and become their inside-man. O'Toole supplies Leone mobster Toni Cipriani with intel about various Sindacco operations, allowing Toni to eliminate them and weaken Sindacco influence in Portland. This culminates in the Red Light District and Paulie's Revue Bar (renamed Sex Club 7 by Salvatore Leone) being taken over by the Leone Family as the Sindaccos are pushed out of Portland.
Paulie "The Invisible Don" Sindacco .
After their defeat by the Leone Family in the first gang war of 1998, the Sindaccos are reduced to only Torrington on Staunton Island . As a result, they turn their attention away from the Leone Family and begin moving into Forelli Family territory in hopes of taking it over. This begins the second gang war of 1998, this time between the Sindaccos and the Forellis, which leaves both families weakened. Franco Forelli and Paulie Sindacco later attempt to establish a truce, but the peace talks are sabotaged by Toni Cipriani, on Salvatore Leone's orders, who remotely takes control of Paulie's car and uses it to run over dozens of Forelli Family members.
As the war between the Sindaccos and the Forellis continues, Paulie Sindacco uncovers Salvatore Leone's involvement in sabotaging the peace talks and is able to pull the strings of Mayor Miles O'Donovan to have Salvatore arrested . Once Salvatore discovers it was Paulie who was responsible for his arrest, he tasks Toni to kill the Sindacco Don as the latter tries to leave Liberty City on his boat . Toni succeeds in murdering Paulie, wiping out what little presence the Sindacco Family had in the city.
The fate of the Sindacco family remains unknown, as their whereabouts after Paulie Sindacco's death is never disclosed. It is presumed that they settled permanently in Las Venturas and were the only one of the three mob families still out there after the events of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , with the Leones and Forellis having dropped out of Caligula's Casino. After the Dead Reckoning mission in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , with no turf or front companies left in Liberty City, the Sindaccos were forced to abandon the city and the Yakuza and Yardies claimed their territory.
In Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , Sindacco members wear black shirts, black pants and brown jackets with/without sunglasses and carry pistols. In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , the mobsters dress in either brown leather jackets with grey pants and light blue shirts with chains, or in black jogging suits.
A denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto Advance
The Ancelotti Crime Family is the fifth-most powerful of the Mafia families in Liberty City that appears in Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City .
Despite being the most heavily featured and most plot-involved of the five families (appearing in more missions than the other four families combined), the Ancelotti Crime Family is the weakest of the Five Families. Rocco Pelosi , a made man, makes an appearance in Grand Theft Auto V , but he does not directly mention the Ancelotti family other than telling Michael De Santa he is "connected" as the latter goes to kill him.
The organization was formed in the 1900s by the Italian Ancelotti family. The family's criminal empire is based in Alderney City and Algonquin , mainly around the Little Italy area.
Years before the events of GTA IV , the Ancelottis got a seat in The Commission . The family, however, is the weakest out of the five families that build up the Commission.
Because of the family's status as the weakest in the Commission, they hired the Albanian Mob for extra muscle and would even later do business with the Russian Mafiya .
Around the 1970s, the Ancelottis started a war with the Gambetti Crime Family . In 1972 , one of the Gambettis' central members, Jon Gravelli , almost killed the leader of the Ancelottis, but spared him. The family also started a war with the Messina Crime Family . The Ancelottis seem to be in a good relationship with the Pavano Crime Family , the family's relationship with the Lupisella Crime Family is unknown though a Liberty Tree article states that they went to war at some point.
In 1978 , the Don of the Ancelottis died or was killed. His nephew, Giovanni Ancelotti , became the family's new Don . Around that time, the Gambettis also got a new Don, Jon Gravelli.
Around the 1990s, a new crime family, the Pegorino Crime Family , wanted to be a part of the Commission, however, the Ancelottis and other crime families were against the idea and refused to give a seat to the Pegorinos. The Pegorinos started a war with the Ancelottis, as they are the weakest members in The Commission.
Sometime prior to the events of The Ballad of Gay Tony , the famous club owner, Tony Prince , became a friend of Gracie Ancelotti , Giovanni's daughter, and borrowed money from Giovanni. Tony was left in debt with Giovanni, who threatened Tony multiple times by using his wife's relatives, Rocco Pelosi and Vince , who work respectively as a soldier and enforcer for the family.
By 2008 , the Ancelottis are still members of The Commission, and they are still in a war against the Gambettis, the Messinas, and the Pegorinos.
The Pegorinos hire the Irish Mob as extra muscle, and use them as hitmen against the Ancelottis.
The leader of the Irish Mob, Gerald and Patrick McReary hire Niko Bellic as a hitman to kill high ranking Ancelotti members. At first, Packie, Niko, Michael Keane , and Gordon Sargent attack an Ancelotti front and steal a bag of money from the place. The Ancelottis attempt to stop them, but many members there are killed by the small group.
Next, in order to create tension between the Ancelottis and their Albanian muscle, Gerald "Gerry" sends Niko to kill Anthony Spoleto , known as "Tony Black", the Ancelottis long-time capo . Niko puts a bomb at the buttom of Tony's car, and when Tony reaches a meeting place, the bomb goes off and kills Tony and the rest of the members. Then soon after, Gerry kills an Albanian biker, that was meant to meet with Frankie Garone , another capo of the Ancelottis. Gerry has Niko dress up as the Albanian, and after a chase, Frank is killed, effectively sabotaging the Ancelotti-Albanian partnership and sparking a gang war between them.
Meanwhile, soldato Rocco Pelosi hires Luis Fernando Lopez and Tony Prince, as they are in debt to the family. He tells them to come to a golf field , and tells them that they need to get information from a Messina associate about a few enemies of the Ancelottis inside the Messinas. After learning about the people, Luis is sent to kill two targets.
Niko kidnaps Gracie Ancelotti, Giovanni's daughter, and holds her for ransom, until the Pegorinos and the Irish Mob can get the diamonds back. However, the deal is interrupted by Ray Bulgarin and Gracie escapes with Luis and Tony, while the diamonds are lost after a shootout.
Later, Phil Bell , an associate of the Pegorinos, sends Niko Bellic to kill Giovanni's right-hand man , Charles Matteo . Niko arrives to Matteo's hideout , and kills him as he is trying to escape by the means of a Maverick .
Giovanni, angry at Luis and Tony, sends Rocco and Vince to tell Luis that he and Ray Bulgarin have come to an agreement that one of them must die, and they think that Tony should die. At Tony's club , Luis decides not to kill him, and instead, kills Vince, though he let Rocco live due to him being a made man.
Rocco eventually decides to leave the city after failing to collect Tony and Luis' debt and having them dealt with. Moreover, with all the family's high-ranking members being dead by this point, most of which led to a gang war with their former Albanian muscle, and all their major business partnerships with the Russians having been wiped out, the Ancelottis are severely weakened by the end of the story.
The Ancelotti family may be based on the Colombo Crime Family , considered to be the weakest Mafia family in New York , even though the Colombos are based in Brooklyn and don't have a heavy influence in New Jersey . Like the Colombo family, the Ancelottis are one of the smaller families of New York City.
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Gambetti Crime Family are a mob featured in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Gambettis are the strongest and most powerful of the Liberty City Cosa Nostra families in The Commission .
The Gambettis were led by Sonny Cangelosi until his death in 1978 , when he was succeeded by his nephew Jon Gravelli , who led the Gambettis until his own death in 2008 . They are based in Broker , Dukes , and Algonquin .
Gravelli claims they have controlled many lucrative rackets, including window cleaning services and bus lines, since 1958.
During the events of GTA IV , the Gambetti crime family came into conflict with the Korean Mob , Ancelotti Crime Family , and the Rascalov family , formerly known as Faustin family, led by Dimitri Rascalov . Through the help of the United Liberty Paper contact , Niko Bellic becomes a hired gun for the family to help them get rid of their problems with all the other crime families. Once Niko is done, Jon Gravelli shows his gratitude by bringing Darko Brevic into the country.
The Gambetti Family are also mentioned in GTA V during a random event in which the player must rescue Sammy Bottino's daughter from being buried alive on Paleto Bay . Rescuing her opens up a task to drive her to get picked up by a man named Beppe in Vinewood hills . After identifying herself as Sammy's daughter she asks her rescuer if he has ever heard of the Gambetti Family. He will say that he hasn't which will lead her to explain that her father was Don Gravelli's right hand man but had been arrested in 2011 after four years on the run to avoid a murder charge and subsequently became a snitch, giving information about the family to the authorities in exchange for a more lenient sentence served in a five star cell and say that she believes that this is the reason for the hicks targeting her. It is unknown what effect Sammy's actions had on the family, given his esteemed position however it is likely that he would have enough information to take them down by putting a lot of high-ranking members in prison for their crimes.
The Gambetti family is based on the Gambino Crime Family , widely regarded as one of the most powerful and respected mafia families of New York City, second only to the Genovese Crime Family . They help Construction Unions for business as well as the Messina Family , but having a dislike of the Ancelotti Crime Family due to their connection to the Russian Mob.
The head of the Gambetti Crime Family , Jon Gravelli , and his bodyguard.
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Lupisella Crime Family is the fourth-most powerful Mafia family of Liberty City and part of The Commission who is mentioned in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Ballad of Gay Tony . The family is said to operate in the borough of Bohan .
The Lupisella Crime Family was one of the five original Italian crime syndicates that were formed in Liberty City in the early 20th century, a period during which the Lupisellas founded a union with the Gambettis , Pavanos , Messinas and Ancelottis , called The Commission . Years later, the Lupisellas would be considered the fourth strongest, or alternatively the second weakest family, behind only the Ancelottis.
The family's roots are mostly unknown, although by the 1950's the family was headed by Vincent Lupisella , who fought and killed his twin brother in struggle for the family's leadership, which indicates there was at least one leader before Vincent himself, combined with the fact that Vincent was only in his teens when the five families made a truce. During his reign, the Lupiselles were believed to control many major rackets in the city.
Eventually, Vincent decided to retire from his position, possibly because of his Alzheimers, and was succeeded by his nephew Mark . Despite leaving the family, many people still believe Vincent to be in charge, which indicates that Mark has only recently been appointed Don. Due to his low IQ and violent nature, Mark received the nickname "Loopy".
The Lupisellas also had a hitman named Sonny Honorato ; Honorato has served as the crime family's main hitman for quite some time, despite his old age, however by 2008 he is said to be deceased. A notable associate along with Honorato was Moe Schwartz , who, unlike Honorato, wasn't a full member of the family because of his Jewish ancestry. He worked as an accountant for the family, making it the only Liberty City Crime syndicate that the Federal Government has been unable to charge with tax irregularities.
The Lupisella family could be based on the Lucchese crime family , which is one of the Five Families in New York City and is based in Lower West Manhattan (Algonquin) and the Southeast Bronx (Bohan).
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Messina Crime Family is the third most-powerful of the Mafia families based in Liberty City that appears in Grand Theft Auto IV , Episodes from Liberty City and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Messina syndicate is based in Algonquin and Dukes , but also controls Little Italy alongside the other families. The family is believed to be led by Harvey Noto , who was able to establish himself at the top of the organization after a long and bloody power struggle. Mark Volpe is a Capo whilst Fredo Volpe , another Capo and brother of Mark, has been a police informant since 1998. Harry Hall is the Underboss / Consigliere of the Messina family.
In 2008 , the Messina Family prevented Yusuf Amir from continuing constructing by the labor union. However, Playboy X saw a potential business relationship with Amir, and he therefore hired Niko Bellic to take down all union workers at Amir's construction site .
Sometime later in the same year, Rocco Pelosi of the Ancelotti Crime Family kidnapped a Union Official and had Luis Lopez torture him by hitting him with golfballs. The union official revealed that the head of the LTA was working for the Messina's. He later revealed more information to Rocco, and he ordered Lopez' boss "Gay" Tony Prince to blow up all of the LTA officials with ties to the Messina family with Sticky Bombs . Lopez himself took care of the job, resulting in a construction crane, LTA train and a private jet being blown up.
Harvey Noto, the boss of the family owns the upper class Majestic Hotel in Algonquin. Hary Hall runs a high class prostitution ring in the hotel. The Jewish Mob hired a few rooms in the hotel, hinting the fact that they may be allies with the Messina family, but they are never seen together.
The LCPD believed that they would disband the Messina family with the wiretap evidence collected by Fredo Volpe when they made arrests at the start of 2009 , but this did not happen, and the syndicate is still active as of September that year. Fredo is still implied to be a rat by that time.
In 2009 , Rudy D'Avanzo tricked the Triad member Huang Lee to believe that his rival Jimmy Capra was an undercover police informant (in fact he was a Messina Made Man) and was revealing information about the Triads to the LCPD . Rudy told Huang that he had bugged Capra's car, and he ordered Huang to steal Capra's car from a Messina-owned parking lot in North Bohan .
They later went to a meeting with Capra, where lots of Messina gangsters were killed, except Capra. They have a connection with the Jaoming Family . But after the events of GTA Chinatown Wars it is most likely their friendship has ended.
Their dealers sell Ecstasy and buy Coke. They can be spotted in Little Italy, with black clothing. They attack the player with Micro SMGs and are very tough when fighting on the streets. They are not hostile to the player unless he attacks them. In the GTA Chinatown Wars drug dealing minigame they have two dealers named: Ricci and Vicini , who like to buy Coke and sell many Ecstasy bags at a low price. They are described as the Mob, which could possibly be the Messina Crime Family. When doing many deals with the dealers of the Mob, it will most likely attract police presence.
The Messinas are the gang with the most cars in GTA Chinatown Wars , having a full count of 3 vehicles: grey Turismos , light and dark grey Cognoscentis , and dark gang Burritos .
They are possibly based on the Bonanno crime family in New York City which is one of the Five Families. They share a similar history of bloody infighting and each received help from another family in the commission: The Messina's from the Gambetti's and the Bonanno's from the Gambetti's counterparts, the Gambinos.
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Pavano Crime Family is the second-most powerful of the Mafia families on the Liberty City Commission .
The Pavano's are primarily based in Algonquin . The family is said to be controlled by 60 year old Mary Valvona , along with her 40-year-old ex-lover Arthur Zapulla who is the family's official consigliere. Mary Valvona and Zapulla are suspects in the murder of her former husband and boss in 1990. Joe Corrola , until his death in 2008, was in charge of the family's heroin distribution ring. Mario Venturella is the longest lasting lovers of Mary and is an Algonquin based cat-burglar. Vito Menotti , a former Pavano hitman turned states against them in 2008.
Boss Jimmy Pegorino of the Pegorino crime family looked at the Pavano family as a way of getting a seat on the Commission, so he organized a sit down with them at an old refinery, where he took hired gun Niko Bellic along to watch over the meet with a sniper rifle. Niko was recommended to Pegorino by associate Phil Bell . The sit down was a set up and the Pavanos attempted to whack Jimmy Pegorino, who was then saved by Niko. After this failed hit, the Pegorinos and the Pavanos went "to the mattresses", and the Pavano crime family later suffered for their actions when Pegorino hired Bellic again to wipe out a Pavano crew that was meeting at Auto Eroticar in Alderney City .
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Lost Motorcycle Club is an outlaw motorcycle club in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series operating primarily out of Acter , Alderney State in 2008 , but later nationally (including Los Santos and Blaine County , San Andreas ) in 2013 and onward. As of 2013, they are active on both the east and west coasts, as well as the Midwest.
The vice president (later president) of the Alderney chapter, Johnny Klebitz , is the protagonist in The Lost and Damned , a supporting character in Grand Theft Auto IV and The Ballad of Gay Tony , and a minor character in Grand Theft Auto V .
According to The Lost website, The Lost began in 1964 with eight U.S. Marines who met during the Vietnam War in Hanoi , North Vietnam . After the war ended, they had a continued thirst for drugs and violence. Because of this, they started the club and named it 'The Lost' in honour of all their friends who had been killed in the war.
At the beginning of The Lost and Damned , the protagonist Johnny Klebitz is the acting president in the absence of Billy Grey , who was incarcerated for drug charges. The clubhouse is located in Acter , but neighbouring Berchem is also considered Lost MC turf. Prominent members of the Liberty chapter include the chapter's president Billy Grey, vice president Johnny Klebitz, treasurer Jim Fitzgerald , secretary Brian Jeremy , road captain Clay Simons , sergeant-at-arms Terry Thorpe , and enforcer Jason Michaels . Other noteworthy members are Angus Martin and Dave Grossman , as well as old ladies Leila Sharpe and Ashley Butler .
The Lost MC also has a presence in Broker , Liberty City , although they are apparently subordinate to the Liberty chapter leadership in Acter.
In 2008 , Jason is killed by Niko Bellic for dating Anna Faustin , Mikhail Faustin 's daughter. After Billy is released , he tells the club members that Jason was killed by a Pole/Serb, but later changes the story and claims that Jason was murdered by the rival motorcycle club, the Angels of Death , beginning a war between the two gangs. The Lost manage to steal a large amount of heroin from the Angels of Death and attempt to sell it, but Billy sets up an ambush for Johnny and Jim, who escape while Billy is arrested again.
Johnny once again becomes the Lost's de facto president, which causes the Liberty chapter to split into two different factions, beginning The Lost Civil War . One of the factions, led by Brian , believe that the other faction, led by Johnny, has sold Billy out. Eventually, Johnny's faction wipes out Brian's. Johnny then begins working for Pegorino Crime Family capo Ray Boccino , and steals expensive diamonds from Gay Tony for him. He later tries to sell them to the Jewish Mob but is ambushed at the deal by Tony's business partner, Luis Fernando Lopez , who takes back the diamonds. Johnny manages to escape with the money during the chaos and decides to keep it, causing Boccino to kidnap Jim. Johnny saves him, though Jim is later killed by Niko Bellic on Boccino's orders.
When Johnny and the remaining Lost members learn that Billy plans to testify against them, they storm the Alderney State Correctional Facility , where Billy was being held, and kill him. Afterwards, they find their clubhouse trashed by Boccino's men, so they burn it down to put it out of its misery. The only surviving members of original Lost club still affiliated with them are Johnny, Clay, Terry, Angus, and Ashley.
The Liberty chapter manages to somewhat rebuild itself by 2009 . Huang Lee is contacted by Lester Leroc , a private investigator hired by the Triads leader Hsin Jaoming . Hsin orders Lester to go undercover in the Angels of Death to find a traitor among the Triads' ranks. As Lester doesn't know how to ride a motorcycle, he asks Huang to pretend to be him and pass the AOD's initiation test. As part of the test, Huang kills many Lost MC members hanging around the Angels of Death's turf at Meadows Park in Dukes .
By 2013 , some members of the Liberty chapter moved west towards the rural lands of Blaine County ; these members included Johnny, Clay, Terry, and Ashley. They create a new chapter and manage to establish a club hideout in Stab City , known as The Range , and acquire a safehouse/front in Grapeseed , along with an airstrip that they use to smuggle drugs and weapons throughout the state.
Another chapter happens to be active in the city of Los Santos as well, mostly seen around the East Vinewood area, where they patrol in their Gang Burritos and operate a clubhouse . Some members can be seen further south in the city, all the way down to East Los Santos , as indicated by a random event. Some Gang Attacks also show that The Lost are in other parts of the city, as well. It is possible that the Los Santos chapter may have been formed in 2004 when Johnny and several key members visited the city. This is supported by the kidnapped girl in the Random Event - Snatched , who states that she has been with the chapter for nearly ten years.
The Lost's presence grew throughout Blaine County with Johnny as president; however, drug use became an issue within the club. Johnny became addicted to methamphetamine and Ashley, Johnny's girlfriend, also continued her addiction, supplementing payment to her dealers, such as Trevor Philips , with sex, much to Johnny's grievance. Because of Johnny's addiction and depression over Ashley, his popularity in the club began to falter as he weakened as a leader; to the point where Billy Grey was becoming a martyr to several members of the club.
The Lost's primary businesses in Blaine County became the illegal distribution of firearms and drugs, causing tension between them and Trevor's business, Trevor Philips Enterprises . Trevor and his associate, Ron Jakowski , later instruct the GTA Online Protagonist to steal drugs from the Lost. Additionally, the Lost make enemies with the Madrazo Cartel and The Families , who also hire the Online Protagonist to disrupt their business.
Eventually, after having sex with Ashley again , Trevor is confronted by Johnny. Trevor pretends to "console" him, but then kills him in a fit of rage and drives to Stab City, killing the Lost members there, including Terry and Clay, as Trevor decides to finally become the sole firearm and drug distributor in the region. Trevor has the option to kill Ashley after he kills Johnny, but even if he does, the radio will later say that she died during a heroin orgy in a condo .
To enact revenge, the surviving members of The Lost ransack Trevor's Trailer . Trevor's response is to kill all the Lost members at the Sandy Shores Airfield and take it for himself . Later on, a new chapter moves into Stab City, promising to find the one who killed all their old members. Before they have the chance to, however, Trevor sneaks into their hideout and blows up many of their trailers, before killing the new members there. Some time later, Trevor wakes up drunk on an island off the coast of the Palomino Highlands , surrounded by dead Lost MC members, whom he presumably killed.
Despite all these incidents, The Lost still maintain a presence throughout Los Santos and Blaine County, though they are significantly weakened. If they run into Trevor, they will attack him on sight. After completion of the main storyline, The Lost MC's Los Santos chapter can still be encountered in GTA V at:
By 2019 , the Lost established a clubhouse in Paleto Bay. While buying meth in Sandy Shores, Tao Cheng is kidnapped by the Lost and held at the Derelict Motel for three days. The GTA Online Protagonist is hired by Tao's translator and his associate, Agatha Baker , to rescue him. The protagonist kills the Lost at the motel and rescues Tao, who is high on drugs and happy to see the player. Later on, to acquire weapons for a heist at The Diamond Casino & Resort , the GTA Online Protagonist can attack the Paleto Bay clubhouse and steal two cases of unmarked weapons .
In 2021 , at the request of Trevor's former associate Chef , several meth labs owned by the Lost are destroyed by the GTA Online Protagonist, who also steals a fuel tanker from Stab City. Later that year, members of the Lost feature as enemies in a number of Security Contracts for F. Clinton and Partner .
By December 2022 , the Fooliganz are at war with the Lost because they have stolen their bikes and meth. As a result, the Lost launch an attack on the Fooliganz in an attempt to wipe them out, only to be defeated. Later, while gathering some party supplies , the Lost MC attack the GTA Online Protagonist, one of the people who fought against the Lost when they tried to kill the Fooliganz, and cause the party supplies to explode. The protagonist escapes death and goes to their East Vinewood Clubhouse to steal some weed and gather intel that will help them rob the gang in the future. The protagonist later steals a shipment of meth from the Lost that Labrat , a fellow Fooligan, is planning on using to create something better.
In early 2023 , when Labrat is kidnapped by Isiah Friedlander's Goons , the Fooliganz suspect several gangs for allegedly kidnapping him, including the Lost.
In the summer of 2024 , three members of the Lost — Angel Kenney , Serenity Pierce and Rylee Rose — serve as bounty targets that can be tracked down and either captured or killed by the player.
In late 2025 , the GTA Online Protagonist forcefully evicts several Lost members who have been squatting in the Buen Vino Road Mansion ever since its previous owner, Devin Weston , was killed in 2013. The protagonist is given the choice to remove the bikers either lethally or non-lethally, which in turn allows the property to be renovated and put up for sale by Prix Luxury .
These are all members of The Lost that will help Johnny in Gang Wars . They are all part of The Lost MC in 2008 and can be killed in the same year.
These are other members of The Lost active in 2013 . Several can be killed in the same year. Most of them are, however, mentioned in dialogues. These members include:
Notorious outlaw motorcycle gang The Lost have taken up residence in the Alamo Sea and are now terrorizing the impoverished desert community. Steve Petoria is on the scene. For years, the Lost motorcycle gang were involved in a non-stop war with The Angels of Death, raging across several states. Then came 2008's bloody civil war , that seemed to wipe them out. Now it appears they are back, and worse than ever. The gang is believed to be heavily involved in illegal arms dealing and the manufacture and distribution of Crystal Methamphetamine.
The Lost are based on the Outlaws Motorcycle Club , as referenced by The Lost's bitter rivalry with the Angels of Death who are in turn based on the Hells Angels. This rivalry parallels the real-life feud between the Outlaws and the Hells Angels. More proof of this is that The Lost MC's motto, "The Almighty Forgives, The Lost Don't", is clearly based on the Outlaws MC motto, "God Forgives, Outlaws Don't."
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
GTA Chinatown Wars :
GTA Chinatown Wars :
GTA Chinatown Wars :
The Angels of Death Motorcycle Club ( A.O.D. ), also known to law enforcement agencies as Angels of Death Outlaw Motorcycle Gang (OMG) [ 1 ] , is an outlaw motorcycle club featured in Grand Theft Auto IV , The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , and as the main antagonistic gang in The Lost and Damned .
The Angels of Death MC is an outlaw motorcycle club operating in Algonquin , Liberty City where they frequently hang out at their clubhouse located in North Holland . They receive heroin from the Triads and deal cocaine with the Spanish Lords , while also competing against their rivals, The Lost MC , in the city's meth trade. Similar to the relationship between the Albanian Mob and the Ancelottis , the Angels of Death act as extra muscle for the Triads .
Unlike The Lost MC, who in 2008 only have chapters in Liberty City and Alderney , the Angels of Death have numerous chapters including ones in the UK , Scandinavia, Canada and Australia as well as one in nearly every American state. The Angels of Death also have a theme park in the South [ 2 ] and sell branded merchandise such as bed linen, books, party sets, diapers and even dildos .
According to their official in-game website, angelsofdeathonline.com , the Angels of Death started in San Andreas in 1949 as a small riding club, later becoming a gang for "people dissatisfied with a non-segregated society". Despite officially denying it on their website, it is inferred there and by other characters that the Angels of Death are a white supremacist biker gang.
Known members include leader Lester Arnold , road captain Joseph Johnson , lieutenant Albert Lawson and another unnamed lieutenant .
Their favorite radio stations are Liberty City Hardcore , Liberty Rock Radio 97.8 and Anvil .
The Angels of Death are identifiable by their distinctive back patch, featuring their signature "Winged Skull" with three rockers; a top rocker with the club name, a bottom rocker of the city (e.g. Liberty City, Los Santos), and an "MC" rocker placed just right of the skull. The gang's membership comprises of white males, often middle-aged or older. The Angels of Death dress like stereotypical bikers, wearing decorated leather or denim cuts, Perfecto-style leather jackets, red flannel shirts, gang T-shirts, bandannas, jeans or leather pants, and motorcycle boots. Common imagery on their clothing includes gang symbols, skulls, and Iron Crosses, a nod to both their biker lifestyle and white supremacist ideals. The Lost and Damned expands the appearances, including younger male members, and introducing old ladies, who often dress in a gothic style.
In Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , the two Angels of Death dealers share the same appearance: a bald white male with a long nose and neck tattoos wearing a black leather jacket.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , they are operating around Beechwood City , and can be seen around the Burger Shot and basketball court there. They can also be found in BOABO .
In GTA IV 's multiplayer Mafiya Work mode, Kenny Petrovic reveals that the leader of the AoD organization (Lester Arnold) has a bike which he calls "Sexy Charlie", and then orders it to be destroyed.
In The Lost and Damned , Angels of Death members do not spawn in Beechwood City or BOABO and only spawn around their clubhouse in North Holland. The mission Liberty City Choppers suggests there is a chapter present in Tudor ; however, it is not seen outside of this mission. The AoD bikers can also be found at their main supplier Hsin Jaoming 's Linen Lounge nightclub in North Holland at certain times.
In The Lost and Damned 's multiplayer , the player can enter the Angels of Death Clubhouse .
In The Ballad of Gay Tony , Angels of Death members do not spawn in Beechwood City but they do in BOABO. They also spawn in North Holland, near their clubhouse and Northwood , near Luis' safehouse where they can be seen patrolling the streets and mingling with the residents, despite the fact that their turf does not extend to these areas.
The Angels of Death play no role in the storyline.
In Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , Hsin Jaoming lists the Angels of Death as one potential suspect group for the sabotage of the Triads in 2009 . He hires Lester Leroc to team up with Huang Lee to investigate.
Lester attempts to infiltrate into the gang in order to obtain intel; however, the drugs and biking as part of the admission test is overwhelming for him, thus Huang assists by taking over on the biking stunts, attacking The Lost MC members and selling drugs. However, after having sex with Meredith , the Angels of Death leader's girlfriend, he learns that the gang was not involved in the Triads' sabotage.
The gang moved to Willis in Dukes, taking over the Yardies' territory and leaving BOABO free of gang crime in 2009. They set up their new hideout at the Community cinema.
During a random event with either Franklin or Michael , a member of The Lost MC who killed a LSSD deputy tells one of them that the Angels of Death are "finished", claiming they have no more chapters anywhere in the United States.
Although no members of the club or clubhouses are found in Grand Theft Auto Online , the Bikers update allows players to create their own Angels of Death chapter, as one of the clubhouse logos in the game is the Angels of Death emblem. The player is also able to purchase AoD clothing in any clothing store in the game; three Angels of Death T-shirts are purchasable with two reading " Liberty " and one reading " Los Santos ".
The wars between the Angels of Death and The Lost MC are mentioned by Malc in GTA Online . He says "their wars" are like the wars in Los Santos (referencing The Families and Ballas rivalry).
Multiplayer
Multiplayer
The areas where the Angels of Death appear throughout Liberty City and Alderney.
They act and behave like civilians, only armed and aggressive.
Full on gang members, arch enemies, will have more weaponry.
They act and behave like civilians, only armed and aggressive.
The Angels of Death appear to be based on the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club , particularly from their name, color of choice (red), and date and location of founding (both originated from the west coast of the United States in the late 1940s). According to a special Weazel News report, the Angels of Death claim that they are "just a social club," a claim also made by the Hells Angels. Both the Hells Angels and the Angels of Death have had books written about them by their leaders. The Hells Angels have previously been accused of racial segregation due to the predominantly white membership, an accusation they have denied. The Angels of Death logo appears to be influenced by the Outlaws Motorcycle Club 's "Charlie" emblem.
TLAD denotes introduced in The Lost and Damned TBOGT denotes introduced in The Ballad of Gay Tony CW denotes introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
The Varrios Los Aztecas are a Mexican street gang operating out of Los Santos .
The San Fierro Rifa (or Rifa) is a Mexican gang in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , operating in San Fierro . It is led by T-Bone Mendez .
The Rifa had a strong dislike towards other Mexican gangs in Los Santos , until they joined the narcotics business with Big Smoke and linked up with the Los Santos Vagos .
The Rifa and Vagos often deal with each other in narcotics as seen in the mission Wrong Side of the Tracks . They are also on unfriendly terms with the other San Fierro gangs – the Chinese San Fierro Triads and the Vietnamese Da Nang Boys , though confrontations of these gangs are rare, as their territories are far away from each other. Moreover, the focus of the Rifa is also not based on a gang war with the other San Fierro gangs, but on the narcotics business.
They are the least threatening and violent on the streets: when the player (or any other gang) attacks them, they usually run. Nearby Rifa will question Carl on his gang-banging status. If the player chooses to respond positively – the Rifa will sometimes (but not always) attack as opposed to the Los Santos gangs who will almost always attack. They are never armed with any weapons on the streets, but will draw a pistol if they are provoked with melee weapons , by answering positively or when crashing into their cars (although sometimes they will ram back instead). In general, the Rifa are completely neutral to CJ (except for missions), even after Mendez's death.
Rifa members nearly have the same turquoise color bandannas that Varrios Los Aztecas wear (the Rifa colors are slightly more vibrant), but are not to be mistaken as a northern set of the gang, as they do not like each other. Also, Rifa members are easily recognizable because of their baggy slacks. They have three different skins that will drive and patrol around their territories:
The San Fierro Rifa gang members are seen driving Stallions , Sabres , and Blades and listen to the radio station K-JAH West .
The San Fierro Rifa is based on the real life gang, the Norteños . In reality, however, the Nortenos use red as their dominant color, but like the Rifa, they are the primary Mexican-American criminal group in San Francisco , which San Fierro is based on.
The gang established drug trade relations with Big Smoke, the Ballas , Los Santos Vagos and Russian Mafia after Big Smoke's betrayal .
Despite the death of their leader during the events of the game, the gang remains in existence in their turfs throughout San Fierro, although following the destruction of the Loco Syndicate and their crack lab , it is unlikely they are involved in the drugs trade any further, as there is nobody else to supply them.
They make their final appearance in End of the Line where they were hired by Big Smoke for protection purposes of his crack empire in collaboration with the Ballas, Los Santos Vagos, and Russian Mafia. Ultimately, the Rifas, alongside the other gangs, are defeated.
The Da Nang Boys (Vietnamese: Chàng Trai Đà Nẵng ) (named after the Vietnamese region and city of Da Nang ) is a Vietnamese gang in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas based in San Fierro , San Andreas preparing a full move to the United States of America .
The gang is extremely violent, with major interests in protection, narcotics and human trafficking. While the Da Nang Boys are portrayed as a major Vietnamese gang in the city, two other gangs, the Shining Razors and the Butterfly Children , were mentioned in the game and in the official GTA San Andreas website, and are said to be active in Easter Basin . Their turf is mainly in Easter Basin and their main front is their ship anchored out in San Fierro Bay . They also have turf in Esplanade North .
The Da Nang Boys have three different members that walk and drive around their area; the first guy wears a gray army T-shirt, blue jeans, yellow shoes, a shaved head and tattoos. The second guy wears a black do-rag, a black Prolaps T-shirt, olive pants, black shoes, and has a black wristband on his right arm. The last guy wears sunglasses, gold and black robes, black pants and black shoes. They wield weapons such as Pistols and Micro SMGs . As for their gang cars, they are seen driving around in Tampas , Mananas and Buccaneers , and their favorite radio stations seem to be Bounce FM and SF-UR , as evidenced when the player jacks one of their gang vehicles. Outside of missions , they are always neutral to CJ.
The Da Nang Boys are known to cause trouble for the drug-dealing organization, the Loco Syndicate . In one instance, they kidnapped the syndicate's head, Mike Toreno . Eventually, though, Carl Johnson and T-Bone Mendez rescue Toreno and bring him back safely to the Pleasure Domes in Battery Point . In another instance, Carl is instructed to guard a drug shipment van which is on the way to the yay factory in Doherty . In doing so, Carl manages to destroy four Da Nang Boys-caused roadblocks, which would have prevented the shipment from arriving at the factory.
The Da Nang Boys are also at war with the local San Fierro Triads and were responsible for the massacre of the Blood Feather Triad, a subsect of the Triads. They have also targeted the Triads' leaders, namely Ran Fa Li and Wu Zi Mu , in one instance attempting an assassination . With the help of Carl, however, the Triads responded with numerous attacks and schemes, such as an amphibious and an aerial attack on the Da Nang Boys' freight ships . Though the aerial attack proved to be unsuccessful, Carl manages to infiltrate the cargo ship, and frees some refugees held captive by the Da Nang Boys. He also managed to kill many members of the gang, including their leader, The Snakehead , thus weakening the gang severely and reducing them to a petty street-gang.
Kendl Johnson is a main character in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
She is voiced by Yolanda Whittaker .
Kendl is CJ and Sweet's younger sister, and the older sister of the late Brian Johnson. Their mother is Beverly Johnson (who dies just before the game begins). She is also Cesar Vialpando 's girlfriend, and therefore affiliated with both Cesar's Varrios Los Aztecas and the Grove Street Families .
After learning about Big Smoke and Ryder's betrayal, CJ requests that Cesar bring Kendl to safety by fleeing from Los Santos . Later in the storyline, Cesar pondered proposing to Kendl but the question of whether Kendl accepted or not remains unanswered.
Moving to the gas station/garage in Doherty , San Fierro , San Andreas alongside Carl, Cesar, and The Truth, she found the place could be reworked into something profitable, putting her despaired bother into an ease ( Claude gave him that place as the reward for the race instead of a pink slip). The renovation into a successful chop shop went well after The Truth enlisted a few acquaintances of his for the endeavor, though it was briefly interrupted by construction workers from the construction site next to the garage who harassed her, much to CJ's anger that he confronted them for it.
Kendl is depicted as intelligent and pragmatic which suggests that although her brothers turned to crime as a last resort to support themselves, Kendl could become successful within the bounds of the law which makes her the "brains" of CJ's business ventures. She possesses entrepreneurial talents, strong willpower, creativity, and a sense of leadership. In fact it was Kendl who came up with the idea of "Letting money work for you" and when CJ responded with, "I ain't going to no college man", she shot back that she will take care of it. She has little tolerance for whining or complaining or complacency which causes CJ and others to regard her as a bit bossy. This is exemplified in the mission Zeroing In , when she discovers everyone sitting around playing poker and chastises them questioning if that was how they would build their business.
Kaufman Cabs is a taxi firm appearing in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
It is located in Little Haiti , Vice City . The business operates a fleet of Kaufman Cab taxis, and employs long-serving employee Doris as a dispatcher and Ted as a taxi driver. Kaufman Cabs' main rivals are Vice City Cabs , who are a bigger firm with more taxis.
In GTA Vice City , the business can be bought by Tommy Vercetti for $ 40,000 ($20,000 in the mobile version). After completing the three missions for Kaufman Cabs, the asset will earn a maximum $5,000 between pick-ups.
In GTA Vice City Stories , Kaufman Cabs is closed and doesn't have a sign just like the other assets from GTA Vice City .
The firm takes its name from the late actor Andy Kaufman , who played a taxi mechanic in the Taxi TV series. The depot of Kaufman Cabs also has the basic layout of the Sunshine Cab Company from the same TV series.
Doris announces Tommy's ownership to the drivers, including Ted (in the red shirt).
The interior of Kaufman Cabs .
Exterior view of the building.
Alternate logo of Kaufman Cabs .
A Kaufman Cabs worker, Ted.
Kaufman Cabs in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Tommy walks to the small office in the small cab depot he purchased.
Tommy walks into the office and finds an old lady working there, who asks hims if he's their new owner.
The old woman asks Tommy which gang he is a part of.
The lady doesn't wait for Tommy's answer and proceeds to rant about how all owners start off by saying that things will change around the depot. She also rhetorically asks if he'll assault one of the drivers to establish his dominance.
She does however ask Tommy to go easy on one of the drivers, Ted, as she says he just got his hernia fixed.
Before Tommy can say anything, she tells Tommy to just wait up, while she tells the usual speech herself.
She says that she's been repeating the same speech for years now.
The lady gets on the microphone and tells the drivers that the depot is now under new management again.
She stops her speech and asks Tommy which gang he is a part of.
Tommy tells her that he's actually not a part of any organized gang.
Since Tommy is not in any gang, the woman just asks him what's his name.
Tommy introduces himself.
The lady tells the drivers that their new management is the Vercetti Gang , that will now make sure nobody messes with the depot's business, before getting off the microphone.
After getting off the microphone, the lady runs down the basics on how the depot is supposed to be ran to Tommy.
She also tells Tommy that if there's any problems from rival businesses, then Tommy will just have to take care of them.
After finishing running down the basics, she tells Tommy to just go and grab a cab from the depot whenever he feels like helping out.
The depot is now under Tommy's control.
Note how the staircase and the cab positions are almost exactly the same.
The misplaced texture.
Epsilon Program can refer to:
The City of Liberty , commonly known as Liberty City or simply Liberty and often abbreviated as L.C. , is a major city located in the State of Liberty that appears in Grand Theft Auto IV , Episodes from Liberty City , and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Grand Theft Auto IV marks Liberty City's fifth appearance in the series after the original Grand Theft Auto , Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto Advance and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , which came out in 1997 , 2001 , 2004 and 2005 respectively. Compared to the previous universe counterparts, the city has more detail and personality, with many places which are based on landmarks such as the Statue of Happiness , Star Junction , and the Rotterdam Tower .
This rendition of Liberty City has versions of four of the five boroughs of New York City , plus New Jersey . Brooklyn is Broker , Queens is Dukes , Manhattan is Algonquin , and The Bronx is Bohan . The state and city of New Jersey is Alderney , which is separate from Liberty City. The only borough not to be recreated in the game is Staten Island , which was cut during development. Although in the game, Liberty City appears to be an isolated set of islands, the rest of America is actually nearby. Rockstar Games stated that they avoided placing unreachable pieces of land in the distance to retain the city's "complete" feel.
Grand Theft Auto IV and its two episodes ( The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony ) use the same full rendition of the city. However, a small number of different locations are accessible in the different episodes. Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars uses the entire city apart from neighbouring Alderney State , although some locations are slightly altered in terms of height and elevation for the isometric 3D perspective of the game.
In Grand Theft Auto V , the films Meltdown and An American Divorce produced by Richards Majestic Productions are set in Liberty City.
Liberty City is divided into 56 individual and unique neighbourhoods which are spread across four boroughs within Liberty City and border the neighboring state of Alderney , including Alderney City . Whereas the 3D Universe version of Liberty City was partly located on the mainland, the GTA IV version is completely made up of islands.
Algonquin (Manhattan) Self-proclaimed center of everything A bustling commercial/business district full of amazing towering skyscrapers and a varied composition of cultures. Here holds various famous landmarks, such as Star Junction (Times Square), Middle Park (Central Park), and the Rotterdam Tower (Empire State Building). This part of Liberty City is the busiest, most crowded, and has more buildings, skyscrapers, and everything in between. It is the heart of Liberty City. There is a lot of nightlife and clubs. Clubs are Hercules , Maisonette 9 and Bahama Mamas .
Broker (Brooklyn) An ex-city on its own A distinct ex-city on its own, it maintains a distinct character apart from the rest of the city. Contains various pockets of housing projects. Some areas are distinct for high crime rate. Also contains a mix of trendy middle-class neighborhoods. Famous for its brownstones. This is the borough in which Niko Bellic initially arrives to Liberty City.
Dukes (Queens) Old, ethnically-diverse and affluent An old ethnically-diverse, predominantly-residential area, it is the location of the Francis International Airport and the baseball stadium that is home to the Liberty City Swingers , and an Irish pub, the Steinway Beer Garden . Dukes is primarily made up of affluent and ethnically diverse middle to upper-class residential neighborhoods that use traditional Irish, Victorian and Tudor architecture; though some neighborhoods follow the typical modern New York archetype. Also contains a minority of more working class areas.
Bohan (Bronx) Multi-cultural ghettos The birthplace of the culture of rap and hip-hop. Also famous for its Latino culture. Largely consists of expansive run down housing projects and is home to the St.Mary's Community Project led by Manny Escuela . Notorious for higher crime rates, gang violence and drug trafficking over the other boroughs. Bohan is the smallest island.
Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV, looking across to Algonquin from Happiness Island .
The earliest settlement that would eventually become Liberty City was established in 1609 , when the Dutch hired the English explorer Horatio Humboldt to find a new location for them to sell marijuana . Humboldt eventually sailed into the Humboldt River, which had coincidentally been named that way by the natives (according to Humboldt's account). The Dutch soon established a colony on the banks of the river and immigrants from all over Europe emigrated to the settlement find out what freedom was truly like in the colony of New Rotterdam, which promised convenience stores and public hangings, as well as the possibility of purchasing slaves thanks to a slave trade craze which swept the nascent colony ever since the first slave ship arrived. Within the span of a few years, the Dutch had become a minority in their own colony, and the East India Trading company hired Gloria Hole to return New Rotterdam to a "civilised" state. Eventually, the English took over New Rotterdam, which was based on a slender island named Algonquin after an old Indian word with the same pronunciation, after the settlers signed a petition to be ruled by the English instead of the Dutch.
The small colony soon expanded with the rising level of immigration, establishing settlements on three neighboring islands. The first consisted of both Broker, named after the King of England's bastard son who was conceived by a milk maid and the other Dukes, after the term Duky because the people living there smelled like excrement. Alderney was named after an American settler called Phillip D'Alderney, the only man who could bear living in the swampy industrial island. The smallest island was named Bohan after a Dutch word that meant "Dutch word". The British and the Americans fought in what was to be known as the American Revolution for freedom from British taxes, and after receiving a statue of a transvestite eating ice cream from the French, the Americans won and removed the Union Jack and melting the statue of King George into chains, toilet seats and gold teeth. The capitol of the young nation was soon changed to Washington D.C. and all of Liberty City's politicians moved there. The next century saw the massive immigration of the Irish into Liberty City, displacing African-Americans as the primary source of labor. The tensions between the North and South over slavery boiled over into a civil war, with riots breaking out in the city. After the end of the war, the Liberty City Subway was constructed. At the beginning of the 20th century, the city's overcrowding, impressiveness, and grandiose, along with the invention of the automobile, allowed it to take its modern form.
The 21st century would host some challenges for Liberty City. A few years prior to 2008, it is implied that a terrorist attack hit the city, leaving its residents paranoid of terrorism for years to come (an analogy to the September 11 attacks ). In the summer of 2008, a dirty bomb threat forces the closure of bridges linking Algonquin to the eastern boroughs and the neighboring state of Alderney. Experts estimate that these anti-terrorism measures force local businesses to lose "millions of dollars a day." This economic impact on Liberty City creates intense public pressure for Mayor Julio Ochoa to lighten his policies. Not long after the media picks up on the story, Ochoa finally caves to pressure and reopens all bridges.
Five years later, it is stated in two internet news articles in Grand Theft Auto V and by Twin Shadow on Radio Mirror Park that Liberty City was devastated by a massive storm. During the aftermath, Weazel News ' John Rios reports that gas and electric "monopolies" will provide relief to victims, but the Liberty City region's grid is expected to be down for over a month. Globe Oil and other petroleum companies start a fund for victims called, "Warming hearts, not warming oceans." It is a campaign to debunk climate change and replace vehicles damaged in the storm. Despite the companies' best efforts, hundreds of thousands were left without homes and vehicles. The devastating impacts enriched the automobile industry. This is an obvious reference to Hurricane Sandy which hit New York and New Jersey in 2012.
Before the autumn of 2013, it is revealed there was a sit-in protest outside The Exchange in Algonquin. At least one protestor , likely alongside many others, were incarcerated as a result. This is a clear reference to the Occupy Wall Street protest movement that began in 2011.
A view from the north of Algonquin at sunrise. Middle Park can be seen in the middle, and the Algonquin skyline in the background. Bohan , Dukes , and Broker can also be seen on the left, while the State of Alderney can be seen towards the right.
As of 2008, the mayor of Liberty City is Julio Ochoa while the deputy mayor is Bryce Dawkins . Thomas Stubbs III is Liberty City's congressman. The time setting is approximately late summer-early fall 2008 in GTA IV and autumn 2009 in GTA Chinatown Wars .
The area of the city is compressed in size (as seen with the Rotterdam Tower's proximity to the Broker Bridge in the final shot), and the various landmarks are placed much closer to each other than in real life. The entire map is smaller than that of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , but is immensely more detailed. This made Liberty City in GTA IV the most lifelike city to feature in any Grand Theft Auto game at the time of release. From the massive buildings and large mass of traffic on every block of Algonquin, to residential areas of Bohan, Rockstar has successfully compromised quantity for quality, although the lack of pedestrians in normally crowded places such as Star Junction (based on Times Square) has drawn criticism.
Actual New York City in comparison to Liberty City. Note that Staten Island in the bottom left is absent in Liberty City.
In GTA IV , the scaling of Liberty City as compared to New York City has a number of differences in the building heights, road distances, and landmark positions. Liberty City is also known as a shrunk version of New York City with almost everything cramped together.
Ground Zero (World Trade Center site) has been excluded from the GTA IV 's Liberty City in a way that as though it does not even exist in the real life New York City while having the site replaced with the merger of buildings surrounding the Ground Zero. Liberty City is an incredibly diverse city and so are its neighbourhoods and residents. Such examples of diverse neighbourhoods include the large Russian, Italian-American, Latino, and African-American populations found in various neighborhoods across the city. Liberty City's residents are known for their sarcastic attitude. The demonym of a Liberty City inhabitant is "Libertonian".
A panorama of Liberty City
The Humboldt River
Liberty City has a unique geography. Firstly, it is an island city that is surrounded by water. Consisting of four different boroughs ( Broker , Dukes , Bohan , and Algonquin ) that are all separated by water and connected by bridge; with the exception of Broker and Dukes, which are connected by land. Smaller islands also exist around the main boroughs; including Happiness Island , Colony Island , and Charge Island . Liberty City's housing architecture and style is a direct amalgam off of the style used in New York City. Brownstone rowhouses, terraced townhouses , low-rise apartments and urban tenements are commonplace; especially in the boroughs of Broker and Dukes . Some of the more affluent neighborhoods; particularly in Dukes , have a higher concentration of larger single-family homes of Tudor Revival , Irish , or Victorian style. The borough of Algonquin hosts many modern landmarks and skyscrapers, in fact, Liberty City boasts some of the tallest Skyscrapers in the United States , with the most impressive being the Rotterdam Tower . Various points of natural parkland can also be found throughout Liberty City, the largest of which being Middle Park in Algonquin .
Due to the size and population demand of Liberty City, housing projects, towers, and urban complexes are also commonplace throughout the various boroughs. They are, however, often stereotyped as being low-income while breeding high-crime rates, despite some housing projects in Liberty City being more affluent and having a lower crime-rate. Housing projects in Liberty City include:
Northern Gardens Projects in Bohan
Parks of Liberty City include:
Overview of Middle Park towards the southwest.
It's no secret that various areas in Liberty City suffer from high crime rates; most likely brought about by the large number of gangs and criminal organizations in Liberty as well as a large underground black market in various areas - in particular the drugs trade, each fighting for control of the city and will use any means possible. The Commission is an Italian-American Mafia association made up of the Five Families, which are the Ancelotti Crime Family , the Pavano Family , Gambetti Family , the Messina Family , and the Lupisella Family . Another mafia family called the Pegorino Family also exist but are not part of the Commission and primarily operate in the state of Alderney as opposed to Liberty City. Aside from the Italian mafia families, there are other major crime organizations such as the McReary Crime Family , Russian Mafia , Korean Mob , and the Triads .
Aside from these major big-time criminal organisations, there are, of course, many small-time local ethnic street gangs in Liberty City as well, such as the Albanian Mob , Jamaican Hillside Posse , motorcycle gangs ( The Lost MC and the Angels of Death ) and various pockets of African American gangs (such as the North Holland Hustlers ) as well as various Hispanic gangs such as the Northwood Dominican Drug Dealers and the Spanish Lords .
Many of the gangs fight over the drugs trade and other businesses in Liberty City for money and power. However, after word gets out about smuggled diamonds; some of the major criminal organizations battle for possession of the diamonds too; including the Pegorino Crime Family and The Lost Motorcycle Club.
Aside from the gang violence and drug trafficking, other crimes and social problems such as prostitution, car theft, arms trafficking, economic deprivation/poverty and a little history of corruption in the LCPD also plague certain districts and neighborhoods. During 2008, Liberty City mayor Julio Ochoa took a tough stance against gun crime by introducing gun control laws; limiting the availability of firearms. He did so primarily by shutting down Ammu-Nation stores across Liberty City. However, this campaign has proved to be generally ineffective as the sale of firearms in Liberty City appears to be booming as an underground black market; with criminal organisations, drug lords, and gangs typically being heavily armed. Regardless, Ammu-Nation started a new online delivery service in Liberty City in 2009.
By 2009, the Triads have become the most notorious crime organization of Liberty City, after the three Triad family bosses started a war between each other in order to replace the Triad leader Hsin Jaoming , who was seeking to appoint a replacement and retire. Around this time, the Irish American Killers control the Steinway and Meadows Park turf, formerly owned by the McReary Family. It is assumed that they are the same Irish crime syndicate, although renamed after most of the McReary family members vanished, as they share the same territories. A North Korean street gang called Midtown Gangsters would later take over the Albanian Mob's former territories in eastern Bohan, after the latter gang was taken down by Kenny Petrovic's Russian Mafia.
Statistically, parts of Broker and especially Bohan are notorious for their higher crime rates, gang violence and drug trafficking market in the city. Most of the crime occurs in the deprived and run-down neighbourhoods as well as the large projects/housing complexes around Liberty City. Bohan deserves a special mention as they often outperform the other boroughs in terms of crime rate with Broker often coming in second. The many projects and housing complexes around northern Algonquin also appear to be plagued by a high crime rate. Dukes appears to be the safest borough in Liberty City due to its heavy middle/upper-class influence but still contains a minority of areas with a higher crime rate.
Crime-for-crime, some of the most dangerous and/or deprived areas with the highest crime rate in Liberty City include:
Much of Liberty City's catering scene comprises fast-food chains and snack vendors. Two of the most dominant fast-food chains within the city are the Burger Shot and Cluckin' Bell franchises. Their restaurants can be found in several locations across the city. Hot dog vendors can also be found in many locations, as well as a few hamburger vendors and mixed nuts vendors around Liberty City, particularly around Middle Park .
Liberty City, being one of the largest cities in GTA's America, is home to many major league sports franchises. The Liberty Swingers (based on the New York Yankees , New York Mets , and Brooklyn Dodgers ) are the baseball team. There is one American football team, the Liberty City Wrath (based on the New York Giants and the New York Jets ). There are two basketball teams, the Liberty City Penetrators (based on the New York Knicks ), and the Liberty City Warriors (who share a name with the Golden State Warriors ), as well as a women's basketball team, the Liberty City Salamanders . The hockey team is the Liberty City Rampage (who have a logo that's similar to an older Washington Capitals logo, albeit recolored). There are also four soccer teams: the Red Mist FC (based on the New York Red Bulls ), the Liberty City Cocks (based on the now defunct New York Cosmos ), the Liberty City Beavers and Superstroika (that have a logo with similar colors to the logo of the Russian team CSKA Moscow ).
The main form of transport throughout Liberty City is by road, there's a fleet of taxis throughout the city, making it easier to transport through the city fast. There is a prominent freeway in each borough, with two in Algonquin and another stretching from Broker to Dukes. A bridge connects each island to Algonquin , with two from Algonquin to Broker and another from Dukes to Bohan .
There is also an extensive subway system, connecting the many areas of Broker, Dukes, Algonquin, and Bohan with two main routes. One serves inner Algonquin and Bohan, the other serves outer Algonquin and Broker/Dukes. The subway reaches everywhere in Liberty City, except for Alderney , as it is not a part of Liberty State.
Every street in the new Liberty City has a name, increasing the realism (in past games, only a few rare street names were used for locations such as Grove Street in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . The 3D Universe version of Liberty City had some street names as evidenced on the GTA III website, but none are directly referenced in any game). All the streets on each island have a meaning, for example, most streets in Broker are named after famous cowboys; streets in Dukes are named after patriotic events, and streets in Algonquin are named after minerals, chemical elements, and U.S. State Capitals.
Subway lines
Helicopters can be flown either by the player or by an NPC pilot when participating in Helitours or by using Brucie 's special ability. Liberty City has an airport in Dukes named Francis International that receives planes from around the world. The aircraft cannot be used by the player in the game. Boats can also be used to travel between the islands.
Algonquin-Dukes Expressway
Broker Bridge
Booth Tunnel
Panorama of Vespucci University in GTA IV .
A few high schools that are based in Liberty City can be seen on the in-game website Hornyhighschoolreunions.com
Vespucci University is located in Varsity Heights , Algonquin and appears to be based on Columbia University .
Liberty City State University is mentioned in Seymour Cockburn 's biography printed on the back of his novels, where he is a lecturer.
Police Headquarters in Algonquin
Northern Gardens Fire Station in Bohan.
Schottler Medical Center in Broker
When asked why Rockstar Games decided to reuse Liberty City, Dan Houser , Vice President of the company said: "New York City is an environment we felt had never been done to the level we were envisioning it in a video game. From looking at all of the locations, this was the one that really stood out to us, and really had that impact. It has."
"The texture of the Algonquin streets, which are filled with crater-like potholes and occasional glimpses of the brick used in a world gone by, are greatly varied in design and something you can't tear your eye from. The visual makeup of the city was something we could capture real well and really understand the minute aspects of its personality. Trying to put that into a video game is something that we think is unique to the video game medium. It was a way that we could capture some aspects of the experience of living there that you couldn't put into a film, you couldn't put into a TV show, and you couldn't put into a book."
"A big part of New York life is walking around the streets and meeting lunatics. That's something that we definitely tried to put into the game. We are trying to give it that life and difference between the neighborhoods and the difference between the kinds of people. We are trying to capture that Capital of the World aspect of New York."
"It's not the full city, it's an approximation thereof. We make a city that feels like the real thing, but is perfectly tuned for gameplay in the broadest sense. The world is not designed to be a video game. We are trying to make a video game that feels like the world, but still plays like a video game. The design of the city and the missions that unfold within it are designed hand-in-hand and complement each other perfectly. Everything in this world is here for a reason, where it is directly tied to gameplay or simply there to create atmosphere."
The depiction of Liberty City in the official website of GTA IV has been retouched to picture the entire city, or at least its landmass, as being larger than it is in-game. Broker is seen extended further to the right, or east, and lights that stretch to the horizon are visible in this extended area, as well as behind Dukes and Algonquin. The same modification can be seen to a more limited extent to the left or west of Alderney.
The playable area in GTA IV was originally going to be the entirety of Liberty State, as well as a larger portion of Alderney and a state based off Connecticut ; rather than just the Liberty City metropolitan area, it would have featured other cities based off of Buffalo and Syracuse , as well as landmasses such as mountains and countryside around the currently featured islands, but time limitations caused Rockstar to instead resort to just focusing on the city.
An unnamed Staten Island-inspired borough was also originally planned as the fifth borough of Liberty City, before being cut early in development.
Despite both episodes being set at the same time as Grand Theft Auto IV , certain areas of Liberty City are redesigned for specific missions in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony .
All of the gangs still control their respective territories throughout The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony .
Throughout Kenny Petrovic's story mission strand, some changes happen to the gang control in the city, which have full impact one year later, as seen during the events of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
New Locations:
Updated Locations:
Technical Changes:
Basic map of Liberty City and Alderney , 2008 .
Liberty City Area Street Map.
Liberty City Subway Map.
Map of Liberty City with relevant locations marked for the Episodes from Liberty City expansion pack.
The map of Liberty City , as seen in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Satellite view of Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A map showing all the gang-controlled territories of Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A map showing all the areas of Liberty City and Alderney.
The four boroughs of Liberty City .
We're a long way from the '80s, but Vice City is still the sun and fun capital of America.
The City of Vice , commonly known as Vice City or simply Vice and often abbreviated as V.C. , is a major city due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI , located in Leonida .
The city also serves as the county seat of Vice-Dale County .
Vice City is a coastal metropolis located in the southeastern portion of the State of Leonida in Vice-Dale County . The city was previously referenced multiple times throughout the HD Universe .
It is the most populous and densely populated city in the State of Leonida, regarded as the sun-and-fun capital of the United States of America , and is well-known for its vibrant atmosphere from the 1980s and its history as a narcotrafficking and money-laundering hub for various transnational criminal organizations. PortViceCity , the city's namesake seaport, is also considered the cruise ship capital of the world.
Vice City, much like its prior iterations, is directly based on Miami , Florida , albeit as a modern 21st-century rendition, in contrast to the 1980s and 1990s depictions of Vice City in the 3D and 2D Universe , respectively.
The city's mainland rests on the shores of a south Leonida bay , which contains several natural and artificial barrier islands that separate it from the neighboring city of Vice Beach , itself considered part of the Vice City metropolitan area.
Vice City is influenced by a diverse population from all around the world. [ 2 ] The city itself is infamous for the drug wars of the 1980s, natural disasters due to its subtropical weather conditions, and its decently-sized skyline of glimmering skyscrapers and condominiums. The city's culture of excess in the 1980s came to define the decade, as people aimed to replicate a "Vice City lifestyle" through indulgence in cocaine, neon lights, and flashy trends. [ 3 ]
Vice City's organized crime was predominantly fueled by the illegal trafficking of cocaine ever since the 1980s to the present day. During the late 2000s, major traffickers have smuggled in cocaine to Russian mobsters in Liberty City , particularly the now defunct Rascalov Mafiya . One of Dimitri Rascalov 's men, Andriy Maximov , has been arrested after being caught with a boatload of cocaine brought from Vice City. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] Smugglers commonly use speedboats and narcosubs to get the drugs in and out of Leonida. [ 6 ]
Like other metropolitan areas in the United States, crime in Vice City is localized to specific poorer neighborhoods and immigrant population towns such as La Perle and Little Cuba .
It is implied that Liberty City-based mobsters operate in Vice City and/or its surroundings, including the formerly appointed Gambetti Crime Family lead successor Sammy Bottino , who was wanted for murder by the Vice-Dale Police Department circa 2007. [ 7 ]
Methamphetamine became popular in Vice City circa 2008, which has reportedly "destroyed the lives and businesses of cocaine dealers" in the city. [ 8 ] [ 9 ] At some point circa 2019 , a weed-based drug named " Zombie " induced users into committing cannibalism. [ 10 ]
In the mid-2020s, the government of Vice City appears to now operate "neighborhood enhancement teams" that partake in community revitalization efforts to enhance safety, with one office located at the Rockridge Community Resource Center in the neighborhood of Rockridge .
Vice City is the home of at least three professional sports teams:
Vice City is home to at least two sports stadiums:
As mentioned in Grand Theft Auto Online , there are rapid transit systems serving Vice-Dale County, one of which is identified as the Vice City Metro Mule .
In an interview with Adam Rosenberg from Digital Trends on December 13, 2012, [ 11 ] about the 10th anniversary of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and its cultural impact, former Rockstar North President Leslie Benzies was asked if there is "Any chance that Vice City might return in a future GTA?" , to which he answered:
The official map of Vice City, like the rest of Leonida, has yet to be officially revealed.
The State of San Andreas , also known as the San Andreas Republic , is a state located in the southwestern United States of America ; the southern half of the state is featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . San Andreas is closely based on real-life California . When compared to its 3D Universe predecessor , San Andreas is much more accurate in terms of geography and size.
San Andreas is a large, populous state. Its diverse climate makes it unique, ranging from grassy plains to arid deserts to forests and mountain ranges. The forests of San Andreas are dominated by the mighty Redwood trees, standing tall over the ground. San Andreas is located on the West Coast of the United States and is the birthplace of several new pop culture trends, including celebrity fallouts. The state sits on the coast of the Pacific Ocean .
San Andreas is nicknamed "The Golden State", just like California. The state's two letter abbreviation is " SA " according to various sources, such as an in-game website beseecher.net . Its residents are referred to as "San Andreans" during a Weazel News radio report. [ 3 ] In Grand Theft Auto Online , the AI assistant Haviland also uses the term "San Andrean" when citing statistics about the state's billionaire residents.
The area of southern San Andreas accessible in Grand Theft Auto V consists of two counties: urban Los Santos County and mostly rural Blaine County . Other locations such as San Fierro do not appear but are mentioned numerous times. Red County and Flint County were also previously mentioned in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The entirety of Southern San Andreas, with a Shamal flying over.
San Andreas is unique in that it is the first setting in the Grand Theft Auto series not to have any part of the map restricted at the start of the game, with the exception of certain specific locations, such as the city airport , the Humane Labs and Research chemical laboratories, the military base , and the state prison . This means that even at the very beginning of the story, players can explore and discover the world to their hearts' content. However, some locations, such as Sandy Shores , do not play a role in the storyline until a certain point in the game.
San Andreas' motto is, "We won't be broken hypocrites forever," as stated in a San Andreas Tourism Board commercial; according to the same advertisement, San Andreas has the most polluted air in the world.
By the summer of 2022 , San Andreas is considered "the most violent state in the country". [ 4 ] Nearly two years later, the LS Tourist Board launches a wildlife photography initiative to challenge San Andreas' placement in "the bottom ranks of America's Safest States." [ 5 ]
Little is known about the history of San Andreas. Throughout the story, snippets of the state's history are mentioned in dialogue. San Andreas used to be a territory of Mexico in the 1800s, which explains the large Mexican population and some Spanish geographic names. The city of Los Santos , however, was founded in 1781 , which was when the Spanish Empire was still in control. Old Mexican bloodlines like Manuel 's resided there for over 200 years and consider themselves more American than Americans themselves. Blaine County was established in 1823 .
Judging from the state flag, it is likely that the American settlers came to San Andreas and defeated Mexico, thus establishing the San Andreas Republic. Los Santos County was established in 1889 , several decades after the founding of Blaine County. In the 20th century, San Andreas became the center of culture in America and gave birth to the famous Vinewood film culture, resulting in classics like Vinewood Zombie . In Grand Theft Auto IV , it is stated that Los Santos experienced riots before 2008 , paralleling the Los Angeles riots . [ 6 ] In 2021 , San Andreas legalized recreational cannabis, though there had long been stores before that in 2013 that sold medical marijuana purportedly to only those with prescriptions.
The beaver is the official state animal of San Andreas. The beaver can be seen on the state flag, the logo of the Los Santos County Sheriff , and on the seal of the city of Los Santos .
The entire state, like its real-life counterpart, is geographically diverse, with nearly every biome. The metropolis of Los Santos is located at the very south of the state, separated from the Grand Senora Desert by the Vinewood Hills , where the famous Vinewood Sign is located. The Alamo Sea , a salty lake based on real-life Salton Sea, along with the aforementioned desert and the towns of Sandy Shores and Grapeseed is in a wide basin surrounded by the massive Mount Chiliad , the highest point of the state, in the north, Mount Josiah to the west, the San Chianski Mountain Range and Mount Gordo to the east, and the Vinewood Hills to the south. Across Mount Chiliad, the town of Paleto Bay and its surrounding forest is connected to the rest of the state by the Great Ocean Highway , Mount Chiliad Tunnel and Braddock Pass between Mount Chiliad and Mount Gordo. The Fort Zancudo U.S. Army Base is located at the foot of Mount Josiah, beside the Zancudo River , one of two natural outlets of the Alamo Sea, the other being Cassidy Creek , which cuts through Raton Canyon . Natural beaches border the west of the island, stretching from the Los Santos district of Vespucci to Paleto Bay, while the east coast has high cliffs and mountains.
The aviation infrastructure of Southern San Andreas includes Los Santos International Airport (LSIA), Fort Zancudo (for military use), the Sandy Shores Airfield (owned by one of the protagonists Trevor Philips), and McKenzie Field in Grapeseed (used for air trafficking operations). The Port of Los Santos is a major seaport where cargo ships can be found.
As depicted in Grand Theft Auto Online , every year around the holiday season , Southern San Andreas gets covered in snow for a week or two – a phenomenon that is rare for its real-life counterpart.
The city of Los Santos is very diverse in population, from the large African-American community in South Los Santos , the Hispanic population in East Los Santos and the celebrity millionaires in Rockford Hills and Richman . Rednecks inhabit Sandy Shores , while Grapeseed is the state's center of agriculture. It is also said that hipsters can be found in Chumash and the LS district of Mirror Park . The Chiliad Mountain State Wilderness is a common hunting ground and the home of the Altruist Camp .
San Andreas has four known counties: Los Santos County, Blaine County, Red County and Flint County. However, the latter two do not appear in the game.
Los Santos County is the southernmost county in the state, and also the most developed in the south state. It consists of the cities of Los Santos , Del Perro , Rockford Hills and Davis , along with a large variety of highlands, beaches, and interconnected highways . The town of Chumash is located in the western side of the county along with a large beach. It is bordered by Blaine County to the north by Route 68 . Los Santos County is the urban area of Southern San Andreas.
Blaine County is the second-southernmost county in the state, and also the northernmost in the south state. Blaine County is mostly known for its wildlife, including a large desert, highlands, a sea, and forests. There are three towns in the county: Sandy Shores , Grapeseed , and Paleto Bay . One of the most visited landmarks in the county is Mount Chiliad . Blaine County is the rural area of Southern San Andreas.
Throughout the series, some names of counties are mentioned and referenced, but other than that, they have yet to physically appear in the HD Universe of the series.
Red County is mentioned in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Flint County is mentioned on homecremation.com in Grand Theft Auto IV , and during the mission Short Trip - Fire It Up in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Located in either San Andreas or a Nevada-inspired state , Bone County is mentioned in The Brute Force File mission strand in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Welcome to Los Santos
The city of Los Santos is based on Los Angeles , California . The city is the main setting of the events of Grand Theft Auto V and initial home of two of the protagonists.
The city of San Fierro is based on San Francisco , California . The city was mentioned by Lester Crest during The Doomsday Heist and Zachary on Kult FM .
The state features four known towns:
Sandy Shores.
Sandy Shores is the most notable due to this being the home of one of the protagonists, Trevor Philips . The town is located in the center of the Grand Senora Desert , bordering the Alamo Sea to the north.
Chumash is a town mostly based on Malibu, California . It is supposedly populated by hipsters, as stated by Dave Norton . There are many beachfront homes and some docks. It is bordered by the Great Ocean Highway .
Paleto Bay.
Paleto Bay is the northernmost town in southern San Andreas. Paleto Bay is known for being a visited landmark for people who like BASE jumping from Mount Chiliad . Paleto Bay is a good rest stop for truckers on the Great Ocean Highway due to it holding various services such as a bank and a gas station .
Grapeseed is a town located at the northeast end of the Alamo Sea . The town is primarily an agricultural one and contains several farms. It is the second smallest town in the state, just ahead of Sandy Shores.
Dignity Village, a large homeless encampment.
This is a list of communities that usually have no local government or services and are generally unrecognized as official territories.
San Andreas has a rich and diverse variety of ecosystems ranging from mountains to canyons. These include locations throughout San Andreas that are typically unsettled by humans and populated by different animals .
A view of Raton Canyon.
San Andreas is home to many different species of animals . From dogs to seagulls , San Andreas has it all. Animals are not present in the older versions of Grand Theft Auto Online , however. They were later added to the Enhanced and Expanded version of the game.
A shark swimming with a scuba diver in the background
The famous Route 68.
San Andreas has a complex highway system that contains many elaborate routes, interstates, and freeways. The system reaches all throughout the state and is the most developed highway system in the Grand Theft Auto series to date. San Andreas Highway Patrol officers can be found on the highways north of Los Santos .
There are numerous references to the State of San Andreas in Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City . These include characters mentioning locations, TV shows, and radio; however, stock footage of the 3D Universe rendition of San Andreas is used to represent these locations due to the lack of fully developed HD Universe's San Andreas locations at that moment.
Locations from San Andreas in the HD Universe have been pre-established in GTA IV before their appearance in GTA V , such as the University of San Andreas, Los Santos .
As seen by character dialogues and Internet sites, the city names Los Santos (including Vinewood ), Red County , Flint County , San Fierro , and Las Venturas are still used, confirming that these locations exist in some different form in the HD Universe, although not located in the southern portion of the state seen in Grand Theft Auto V .
The Rotterdam Tower 's ground level lobby in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
In-game map of the State of San Andreas in 2013, as seen in Grand Theft Auto V .
In-game map of the State of San Andreas in the present day, as seen in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A comparison of the two renderings of the State of San Andreas.
The official seal for the City of Los Santos .
Alternative seal of Los Santos.
City flag of Los Santos .
The City of Los Santos , commonly known as Los Santos and often abbreviated as L.S. , is a major city featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , located in the southern region of the State of San Andreas .
The city serves as the county seat of Los Santos County , the most developed and populated county in the southern part of San Andreas.
Los Santos can be described as a larger, more diverse and detailed counterpart of its previous universe depiction . Los Santos has become synonymous with the film industry thanks to the classic Vinewood motion pictures, attracting filmmakers and actors from all over the world. Also, it is established that Los Santos experienced riots before 2008 , paralleling the Los Angeles riots . [ 2 ] The city was first mentioned in the HD Universe in Grand Theft Auto IV and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Like its real-life counterpart, Los Santos is a huge and sprawling metropolis with various different cultures, ranging from the prestigious film-making industry of Vinewood to the suburban hood life of Strawberry , just to name a few. Like Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV , the time and date of the city in Grand Theft Auto V is the same as the year the game was released ( 2013 ), while in Grand Theft Auto Online (set in real-life timing), the city keeps evolving and new locations are introduced with each update .
Los Santos is based on Los Angeles , California and its greater metropolitan area. Like its previous appearance, " Los Santos " is Spanish and translates to " The Saints ", a play on " The Angels ", which is the translation of " Los Angeles ".
Los Santos is divided into 40 districts and neighborhoods, some of which were incorporated communities that merged into the city.
Downtown Los Santos ( Downtown Los Angeles )
Downtown is the financial center of Los Santos and its most urbanized area, with the presence of the tallest high-rises in the city, including the huge Maze Bank Tower , the FIB and IAA buildings, the Union Depository and the Mile High Club , still under construction. The district is divided into the neighborhoods of Pillbox Hill , Mission Row , Textile City and Legion Square .
South Los Santos ( South Los Angeles )
An economically depressed, predominantly African-American area of the city, characterized by street gangs and low-income housing projects. South Los Santos is divided into the neighborhoods of Strawberry , Rancho , Chamberlain Hills and Banning , and also contains the incorporated city of Davis .
East Los Santos ( East Los Angeles )
A large district with a high concentration of Latino residents and a strong gang presence, in particular the Los Santos Vagos and the Marabunta Grande . Although the district is primarily industrial, it has been experiencing gentrification over the last years. East Los Santos is split into the neighborhoods of La Mesa , Cypress Flats , El Burro Heights and Murrieta Heights .
Rockford Hills ( Beverly Hills )
Predominantly a shopping and residential area, Rockford Hills is an affluent incorporated city that merged into Los Santos. The iconic Portola Drive is a major tourist attraction in the city. The district also contains the smaller neighbourhood of Burton in the southeast.
Vinewood ( Hollywood )
A large and affluent district, famous for being the home of the entertainment industry and for its theaters and nightclubs. Vinewood is divided into the neighborhoods of Alta , Hawick , Downtown Vinewood , West Vinewood , East Vinewood and Mirror Park .
Vinewood Hills ( Hollywood Hills )
Notable for its views of Los Santos, the iconic Vinewood Sign and its expensive homes and celebrity inhabitants.
Richman ( Bel Air , Holmby Hills )
A rich, high-class neighborhood known for its large luxury mansions. The Los Santos Golf Club is located here, making it an exclusive recreation area.
Morningwood ( Westwood )
A quiet and wealthy commercial and residential neighborhood, known for its historic theaters.
Little Seoul ( Koreatown , Wilshire )
Located in Central Los Santos, Little Seoul is a middle class district with an ethnically diverse population, home to Korean and Asian immigrants.
Del Perro ( Santa Monica )
A laidback, trendy beachfront community widely known for its beach and the world famous Pleasure Pier .
Vespucci ( Venice )
A residential, commercial and recreational beachfront neighborhood known for its canals, beaches and a world-famous front walk . Vespucci is split into the neighborhoods of Vespucci Beach , Vespucci Canals and Puerto Del Sol .
La Puerta ( San Pedro )
A community with strong roots in the fishing and longshoring industry, La Puerta is primarily industrial and sparsely populated. The district is the home of the Maze Bank Arena .
Los Santos International Airport ( Los Angeles International Airport )
One of the busiest airports in the world. The LSIA district is also the location of the airport's nearby warehouses, hotels and restaurants.
Port of Los Santos ( Port of Los Angeles )
The major seaport for the city of Los Santos and the busiest port in America. It is split into two areas: Elysian Island , the location of Pier 400 , the Naval Port , shipyards and various warehouses, and Terminal , a maritime container terminal.
Pacific Bluffs ( Pacific Palisades )
Home to the world-famous Kortz Center museum, Pacific Bluffs is the entrance gate to western Los Santos. Like neighboring Richman, it is predominantly a high-class residential district with a low population density.
A view of Los Santos.
Los Santos is not as renowned as Liberty City for its cityscape, but many important companies as well as government agencies FIB and IAA are headquartered here. Most of the city's high rises are located in Downtown LS , and the rest are scattered throughout the nearby districts of Little Seoul and Rockford Hills .
Los Santos, especially the northern side of the city, is praised for its high quality hotels. There are many famous hotel chains such as the one owned by the affluent Von Crastenburg Family .
Aside from houses, there are also large apartment buildings for people to live in. These buildings are typically high-end and go up to thousands of dollars in price, except the low-rise housing projects of South Los Santos .
Maze Bank Arena.
Los Santos is not only famous for its film culture, but also its sports. There are many famous sports teams in Los Santos that have fans arguing about them on Lifeinvader .
Before the Internet age, people went to the various theatres of Los Santos to see movies. These theatres have been used since the 20th century and are what made the Vinewood film industry famous. There are also art museums and galleries located throughout LS.
Each of the incorporated cities within the Los Santos metropolitan area has a representative city hall, while the center of the government of the city is located in Alta :
There are also many tourist traps in LS. These landmarks are what gave LS a glamorous image.
Traffic on the Freeway at night.
Los Santos has one of the busiest airports in the world, along with one of the busiest seaports in the world. In the LSX, people are traveling to and from Los Santos every day, although there is barely enough infrastructure to support all this activity. The port is used mostly for Chinese goods and suspicious cargo .
Los Santos is also known for its heavy traffic congestion and a large system of freeways, interstates, and highways that run throughout the city. Commuters can be seen here day and night.
Los Santos Transit logo.
Los Santos offers a wide range of transportation, including a connected major highway system, and several other smaller highways, with several exits and on-ramps around the city. The city also has its own rapid transit system named the Los Santos Transit . Buses can also be seen spawned in traffic all around the city. Like most cities, Los Santos traffic is monitored and controlled by the Los Santos Transport Traffic Control System which allows the city to control traffic lights and manipulate conditions and the flow of vehicles on the streets and highways.
The Los Santos International Airport is located in the south eastern part of Los Santos and is the only airport in the city. The airport is a major gateway to and from several locations throughout America.
Los Santos is home to some schools and other educational institutions. The most famous one is the University of San Andreas, Los Santos , where the most privileged students attend for good careers. There is also the Los Santos Elementary for children to know the basic learning skills necessary to succeed. Sue Murry used to teach here. In the incorporated city of Davis , there is the Davis High School .
Los Santos boasts a wide variety of hospitals and medical centres. There are more high-end and affluent ones such as Mount Zonah Medical Center , while there are many cheaper ones such as St. Fiacre Hospital .
Los Santos public utility services include:
The Los Santos Police Department (LSPD) is the law enforcement agency that serves the city of Los Santos. They are based on the real life Los Angeles Police Department . Their motto is "Obey & Survive", which is inscripted on their squad cars and also reflects on their corrupt nature. Unlike the LCPD in 2008 , the LSPD uses newer Vapid Police Cruisers and also uses the interceptor , as opposed to the Merit -based Police Patrol , as well as the newer Police Maverick as their main squad and helicopter units, respectively. The LSPD is accused of corruption and racism, much like its predecessor and the LAPD in real life.
The National Office of Security Enforcement also has a presence in the city of Los Santos, as one of its branches is located in the Los Santos International Airport area, while its main headquarters are located in the Palomino Highlands , northeast of the city. When there is dangerous criminal activity, NOOSE is deployed to the scene.
Although not seen in-game, Los Santos operates a criminal justice system. In a Weazel News radio segment, a court known as the Los Santos Superior Court is mentioned. It can be assumed that the Los Santos Superior Court is reminiscent of its real-life equivalent .
Los Santos is also known to be a one of the major hubs of drug trafficking and a large stronghold for organized crime and the wider criminal underground in the United States specifically and North America as a whole. Some of the neighbourhoods in Los Santos suffer from high crime rates, specifically the southern part of the city. Since the 1990s, Los Santos is primarily affected from the drug trades between many gangs in the city. These drugs include crack, meth, and marijuana as well as a new drug called "Toilet Cleaner".
Besides the drug smuggling, the city suffers from violence, murder, and gang fighting in the southern part of the city (mainly Chamberlain Hills , Davis , and Strawberry ). Most of these crimes are caused by the two long time rival African-American street gangs, The Families and the Ballas , alongside Mexican-American street gangs like the Los Santos Vagos and Varrios Los Aztecas to a large extent. They are involved in arms-trafficking as well, bringing in illegal weaponry such as Assault Rifles and SMGs .
Other than small-time street gangs, there are also influential and organized crime groups in the city. The Marabunta Grande , a powerful Salvadorian crime syndicate, are expanding their operations to Los Santos. They have fierce rivalries with other gangs all across San Andreas that are involved in the narcotics trade.
Not only is there high criminal activity, but there is also widespread corruption amongst city officials and even the police. The LSPD is known for their police brutality; there was even an instance where they shot and killed a dog . According to some sources, LSPD officers are also known for hiring prostitutes , which may explain the high presence of prostitution even in the affluent parts of the city.
When Rockstar Games started to conceptualize Grand Theft Auto V , they felt that they still had work to do in San Andreas. Dan Houser , the English Vice President of Rockstar Games along with his brother, Sam Houser , as well as the VP of Creativity, had given his idea on creating a new Los Santos this time around:
"Sam, my brother, more than anyone, but also the lead artist Aaron Garbut, were both really interested in the idea of doing a proper Los Angeles. We felt we hadn't done that with San Andreas - which were these very small, sketch like cities. Los Angeles and the surrounding countryside would be very interesting, giving us good themes to play on, and lots of good, different gameplay environments - something that allude to aspects of GTA IV and allude to some aspects of San Andreas, but still very fresh and different from the both of them."
Dan Houser also stated that, "The geography you could get outside Los Angeles is spectacular. The contrast between desert/rural Southern California, inland from L.A. and just a bit north, compared to L.A., gives you a great microcosm of red state/blue state theme - different vibes culturally as much as geographically. I think this would be good about this location."
When asked about what elements were Rockstar Games comfortable with leaving behind and what elements they wanted to preserve from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Rockstar Games' Aaron Garbut said that they wanted the new world of Los Santos to feel "very fresh" and that their reference for the world of Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV "wasn't the city from the earlier games." Aaron also stated that this version Los Santos is an, "entirely fresh game world waiting to be explored and experienced."
Once asked what is difference between Los Santos in GTA: San Andreas and in GTA V , Aaron stated that the focus of San Andreas was gang culture, while the focus of GTA V is about contemporary culture of L.A. as a whole, with the difference between the two is that GTA V is "so much broader."
Los Santos is heavily polluted, with smog common during the early hours of the morning. At night, the sky is commonly a dark yellow colour, especially when it is cloudy or raining. According to a radio advertisement, Los Santos was named "the most polluted city in the world" in 2013, ahead of Beijing. From 24-26 December 2013, Rockstar added snow to Grand Theft Auto Online . Snow covered the whole city and was visible from Blaine County . During this time, the days were shorter and the nights were darker, replicating a real-life winter. Snow reappears and covers the whole map for a few days every year, as part of each year's Festive Surprise event. With Los Santos not being known for snow, in universe, the appearance of it each year baffles reporters.
Street map of Los Santos .
Detailed street map of Los Santos .
A guide to Los Santos , held by tourists. Note that this map is different than the actual game map, and has a much more exaggerated view of the city.
Los Santos postcard.
Vinewood Hills.
Del Perro Pier.
Vespucci Canals.
Los Santos as seen in the enhanced version trailer.
Los Santos as seen in the PC version.
Los Santos at night.
Los Santos at night from Galileo Park .
Los Santos at night from the Vinewood Sign .
Los Santos at night from Richman .
Snow in Los Santos as part of the Festive Surprise (2014 release).
Snow above Los Santos in Grand Theft Auto Online during a switch-screen, as part of the Festive Surprise (2015 release).
Los Santos as depicted in Race and Chase arcade game in Grand Theft Auto Online .
San Fierro is a city based on San Francisco , California . It has two renditions:
Las Venturas is a city appearing in two different universes of the Grand Theft Auto series:
Blaine County's official seal.
Blaine County is a county featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , located in southern San Andreas . It is bordered by Los Santos County to the south.
Blaine County is a geologically diverse county, featuring a large desert region, dense forest and several mountains. Blaine County is the single largest rural area in the Grand Theft Auto series. Blaine County contains the towns of Grapeseed , Sandy Shores and Paleto Bay , as well as several other smaller settlements. Blaine County is separated from Los Santos County by Route 68 . Despite being a separate county, its policing remains under the jurisdiction of Los Santos, with Los Santos County Sheriff officers patrolling the county's highways.
West Coast Talk Radio is not available in Blaine County. If the player crosses the county line while listening to the station, the signal will be lost. Likewise, Blaine County Radio can only be listened to in Blaine County, and is not available in Los Santos County.
Occasionally, during the nighttime hours on Marina Drive, local civilians can be seen walking over the long sand dune lining the road. If you follow them, they will lead you to a distinctive group of locals inside an old flooded out, and dilapidated building smoking, talking, and listening to Radio Los Santos from a boombox.
Blaine County is an amalgamation of several Southern Californian counties adjacent to Los Angeles County. For example, the eastern desert and more rural areas near the Alamo Sea appear to most closely resemble western Imperial and mainly Riverside County , whereas the western and more northerly areas such as North Chumash and Paleto Bay draw inspiration from southwestern Ventura County .
Paleto Forest draws its resemblance from the San Bernardino National Forest . Many of the northernmost and southernmost areas such as Bolingbroke Penitentiary , draw inspiration from southwestern San Bernardino County . The area is also very mountainous compared to the adjacent Los Santos County .
The county’s geographic placement, being directly north of Los Santos County, is similar to that of Kern County , which directly borders Los Angeles County to the north.
Paleto Bay is a small town located in Blaine County , San Andreas that appears in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . It is situated northwest of the Paleto Forest , west of Procopio Beach and sits on the coastline of the Pacific Ocean and the northwestern foot of Mount Chiliad . It is mainly a residential area with some shops.
Paleto Bay is located on the lush northern coast of Blaine County , San Andreas. Sitting at the base of the massive Mount Chiliad , Paleto Bay is a coastal town, home to the Cluckin' Bell factory farm , used to process chicken for all of San Andreas to enjoy. The town also has a Los Santos County Sheriff's Department office, and the dense vegetation that grows around the area is a vast contrast of the dry and arid Sandy Shores . Paleto Bay is a good resting stop for truckers due to its large number of commodities and the fact that Route 1 runs right through the middle of the town. Lester Crest mentions in The Paleto Score that the body of water north of Paleto Bay is actually a river, not the Pacific Ocean .
According to a radio broadcast from Weazel News , the mayor (in 2013 ) of Paleto Bay is Roy Buckley . He recently commented on worker discrimination in rural businesses. Paleto Bay is the typical small town settlement found in rural areas across America. Paleto Bay is much more modernised than other towns in Blaine County, such as Sandy Shores . There are several chain stores that operate in Paleto Bay, like Herr Kutz Barber . In fact, the Cluckin' Bell fast food chain operates a large chicken processing plant in the southern end of Paleto Bay. It appears that Paleto Bay experiences far less crime than other areas in Blaine County. However, despite the friendly image portrayed, Paleto Bay is filled with corrupt local police who are known to cheat the local residents out of their money through the Blaine County Savings Bank . The local police didn't hesitate to rush to the bank when a robbery occurred.
Paleto Bay is a small rural settlement in San Andreas. In the south, there is a Go Loco Railroad railway station situated behind the Cluckin' Bell factory farm . However, it is revealed that Merryweather Security has control of the railway station as well, which was seen when one of their courier trains was derailed . On the western side of the town, the Paleto Forest serves as a place for hunters such as Cletus Ewing to hunt various different wildlife . The center of Paleto Bay is where all the shops and commerce are found. Recognizable chain stores such as 24/7 help provide the town revenue. The southern end of the town is dominated by the presence of a large railway station and factory, along with the hills leading to Mount Chiliad . The northern end of the town includes a small peninsula along with a few tiny islands. The eastern end of Paleto Bay is more dedicated to hard labor. A scrapyard , garage , and a small farm can be found. There's also a RON gas station .
Paleto Bay's coastal location with the Great Ocean Highway running through the middle of it, small town atmosphere, extreme adjacency to a coastal monolith (tall bluff on the southern peninsula/ Morro Rock with Mount Chiliad bearing visual resemblance), and a large national forest ( Paleto Forest / Los Padres National Forest ), and location relative to Los Santos bear similarity to the town of Morro Bay , with elements of Big Sur and Cambria , in the Central Coast region. Its location just north of Cassidy Creek Bridge (inspired by the real-life Bixby Creek Bridge) could also place it geographically around Monterey Bay. However, Paleto Bay contains other elements of inland southern Californian towns such as Gorman and Somis , and some buildings are directly influenced by their real-life counterparts in towns such as Lamont , Fillmore , and Piru .
The town also appears to resemble Trinidad, California (which also has a northeastern location on the state map), with some residential sections near cliffs and overlooking the ocean, a mountainous hill jutting out into the ocean along a beach, and the beach and coastal scenery in general.
A welcome sign near the Donkey Punch Family Farm indicates a population of 4,006–4,906. Legible numbers are 4, ? 06.
Sandy Shores is a small desert town located on the northern edge of the Grand Senora Desert in Blaine County , San Andreas that appears in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Sandy Shores is situated between the Senora National Park and the south coast of the Alamo Sea and overlooks Mount Chiliad . It has a dry, arid climate, and is home to many coyotes that often end up as roadkill. At some point in time, it had a population of 3,010, as seen on a welcome sign on the approach to the town. It is serviced by an airfield south of the town.
Formerly a picturesque holiday resort, Sandy Shores is a somewhat abandoned, poverty-stricken, desolate town with ubiquitous meth labs, trailer parks, drug addicts, gang activity, prostitutes and bigoted rednecks . There is evidence of its past as a holiday destination with the decaying remains of motels, drained swimming pools and trailers, and even a boarded-up marina building by the coast of the Alamo Sea. The town possibly turned into a neglected, run-down community due to the increasing toxicity of the Alamo Sea, caused by people dumping waste into the water and the large influx of methamphetamine production, turning its residents into addicts, and deterring potential tourists as a result. The town is also one of the most remote in the state, with Trevor Philips at one point mentioning that he can't even "get a pizza delivered to Sandy Shores."
On the eastern side of Panorama Drive , there are mostly trailers and small houses in which the local hillbillies dwell. Two streets continue east of the town site, over the levee to the Sandy Shores Beach Front Recreation Area , ending in dead-ends in the middle of vacant land on the waterfront.
On the western side of Panorama Drive, most buildings are abandoned or completely derelict, with several obviously vacated lots all the way along Marina Drive , some with signage still intact, but no trace of the buildings. There is also a meth lab owned by Trevor Philips Enterprises , located upstairs from an operating liquor store .
East Joshua Road marks the southern edge of the township, but the south side over the rail line, including much of the Senora National Park, is still considered part of the Sandy Shores area. This includes the Beam Me Up art installation, a trailer park area on unnamed dirt roads on the edge of the national park, and west of Panorama Drive, the Sandy Shores Airfield, actually located within the Grand Senora Desert.
Despite being such a derelict and neglected area, there are several major chain businesses located around Sandy Shores, including Ammu-Nation and 24/7 . There is also a radio tower in the center of the town.
Sandy Shores is based [ 1 ] on the towns around the Salton Sea in California , such as Desert Shores and Bombay Beach . Sandy Shores is also inspired by Niland , Joshua Tree and Antelope Valley , California, the first two being referenced as street names of the town.
It is possible that development names for Sandy Shores included "Seaton Sand", "Seaton Sands" or "Seaton Beach", as seen on a Seaton Sands Monster Trucks Festival poster when first entering the Yellow Jack Inn , as well as the name of the Auto Repair business in the town. Seton Sands is the name of a real-life beach in East Lothian , Scotland , situated just 14 miles southeast of the Scottish capital city of Edinburgh , where Rockstar North is based; the alliterative name may have also been intended to be a play on the Salton Sea region of California that can be seen on signs. [ 2 ]
Only one property is available for purchase in Grand Theft Auto Online from Dynasty 8 :
Two businesses are available from Maze Bank Foreclosures :
The wildlife in this region includes coyotes , deer , boars and many people have dogs and cats ( enhanced version only ).
An advertisement for property by "Salton Sea Real Estate".
Coat of Arms of Cayo Perico.
Cayo Perico (commonly referred to as just The Island or Paradise ) is a private island in the Caribbean , off the coast of Colombia , [ 1 ] that appears in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Cayo Perico Heist update.
Cayo Perico is considered one of the most secure private islands in the entire world, and the location of the remote island compound of the world's most notorious drug dealer, Juan Strickler (also known as El Rubio). [ 4 ] It also contains an untold fortune in art, gold and drug money, scattered across the island.
Cayo Perico is not only the nerve center of El Rubio's drug empire, but also plays host to his other great love: marathon beach dance parties , where everyone from jetsetters and heiresses to legendary music producers gather to rave until the sun comes up. [ 5 ]
The island first appeared in the "El Rubio Dossier" teaser released during the Los Santos Summer Special update, which contained views of three locations on the island, including a sprawling clifftop Spanish-style estate, a security tower and a farm.
A Primitive Shelter is situated in the southeastern area, implying an untold prehistory.
Various artifacts around the island give hints to its history, including a cemetery near the airstrip, several collapsed obelisks, one of which forms the center point of a circular graveyard of 13 plots and relics from the Spanish Empire such as conquistador armor.
At some point before 2020, Juan "El Rubio" Strickler , one of the world's biggest narcotraffickers, acquired the island and made it the center of his criminal empire, and renamed it "Cayo Perico" (which translates to "Cocaine Cay"). He established enormous marijuana farms and cocaine factories on the island and installed an airstrip and two docks to distribute his products. Strickler also established a solar farm on the island to hide his activities using his green advocacy as a front. To generate more income, he opened a beach party on his island to hard partygoers to sneak his products in. On the southernmost part of the island is a mansion where El Rubio hides a collection of gold and other expensive and rare items such as a limited-edition, diamond-encrusted bottle of Sinsimito Tequila, a ruby necklace, several bearer bonds, a large pink diamond, and a diamond-encrusted panther statue sitting on a large sapphire ball. Any guest or criminal who attempted to steal from El Rubio were either shot to death or fed to El Rubio's pet panther , littering the island with corpses. Pavel stated there were successful heists in the past, but those who were behind them did not live long to savor their victory because El Rubio identified them by their weapons, and their bodies were "sent to the panther's cage in very small boxes".
Although the name of the island is "Cayo Perico"—which translates to "Cocaine Cay" in Spanish (or lit. "Parakeet Cay")—Cayo Perico is not a cay in the topographic sense, and is actually a high island telling by its rocky topography and elevation. With the exception of a few beaches, Cayo Perico contains little sand, with most beaches on the island being covered by small rocks.
Cayo Perico's weather is always set to clear during heist intel or regular visits, therefore having no chance of rain or snow, although there is a very small chance that the weather can be set to a thunderstorm during the Cayo Perico Heist finale.
While there are no native fauna seen on land, the wildlife is heard in abundance, including frogs, birds and snakes. A black panther is kept in captivity in El Rubio's compound. A mutilated shark and a stranded whale can be seen, and there are whale skeletons in the water. The " Loch Santos Monster " inhabits the surrounding seas. Schools of tropical fish can also be seen in the water.
The island is littered with many historical artifacts and interesting objects, some of which are relevant to the heist and will be able to be sent to Pavel during intel gathering for The Cayo Perico Heist . Others are just noteworthy for existing.
The surrounding waters are home to many Wrecks as well as a large meteorite in the far northwest.
There are many skeletons and corpses, some in plain view, some hidden.
( Almost invisible with grass on ultra ).
Skull close-up .
Close-up of the egg .
Close-up of one of the wrapped corpses .
The island appears to be based on Norman's Cay (a.k.a. Cayo Norman), a small Bahamian island used by the Medellín Cartel as a transshipment base for smuggling cocaine into the United States and as a private party island, while the estates and welcome sign are based on Hacienda Nápoles , a luxurious estate built and owned by Colombian drug lord and Medellín Cartel leader Pablo Escobar . Cayo Perico's airfield also bears some resemblance with the real-life Norman's Cay Airport . The party and the musical guests are also likely an allusion to the infamous Fyre Festival , a fraudulent attempt to host a luxury music festival in Norman's Cay that ended in utter disaster.
The shape of the island appears to be based on Canouan , a small island belonging to Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , mirrored and rotated.
Perico is also a slang for "cocaine" in Mexico and Colombia , referencing the fact that the island has a cocaine farm.
Cayo Perico is first visited in late 2020 when the GTA Online Protagonist accompanies English Dave to a party hosted by Juan Strickler under the guise of a management member. The player then sneaks off to scope out the island, by hacking into a communication tower to gain access to Strickler's compound 's CCTV in order to find out where Martin Madrazo 's files are being kept. Afterwards, Pavel directs the player to scope out the North Dock and some secondary targets, before instructing them to continue scoping for infiltration, escape points, point of interests or return to Los Santos to prepare for the heist. Once all preparation works are done, the crew executes the heist, recover Madrazo's files and escapes.
Pavel later informs the player that they can return to Cayo Perico to pull off more heists once Strickler stocks up on more cash , gold, and other equipment to be robbed. The party was over, so the player must pose as smugglers in order to access the island again.
At any point during the heist setup, players can return to Cayo Perico to scope out additional information.
After completing the heist as host, players can return to Cayo Perico and attend the party in free roam. It's not possible to explore the island while the party's going on.
While the island does not make any appearance in The Contract update, it's mentioned that Pavel has visited Franklin Clinton 's Agency (offscreen) in 2021 , looking for the GTA Online Protagonist, and asking when the protagonist is going to take " another trip to the Caribbean ", confirming they are still occasionally robbing El Rubio's Compound to this date. Franklin may also ask if the GTA Online Protagonist has ever been in the Caribbean, possibly referring to Keinemusik Beach Party .
One of the party guests makes an appearance inside Record A Studios after the mission Studio Time . If the player visits Record A Studios after that mission and bumps into her, she'll recognize them as the person from "that island thing a while ago", referring to the Keinemusik Beach Party during the first playthrough of The Cayo Perico Heist.
In 2022 , as part of The Criminal Enterprises update, a Metal Detector can be found during a Random Event in Los Santos, next to a skeleton carrying a Cayo Perico treasure map. The Metal Detector can be used to locate daily Buried Stashes on Cayo Perico while re-scoping the heist .
The update also introduced the Cayo Perico Series , a series of races set in the island of Cayo Perico to be played by 1 to 8 players. The races are not related to the game's narrative whatsoever and are at present the only non-glitch way for a player to operate personal vehicles (at least those eligible for races) on or around Cayo Perico.
Cayo Perico, Juan Strickler and the heist are mentioned multiple times in the San Andreas Mercenaries update by returning heist crew members Charlie Reed , Rooster McCraw and Pernell Moss . Pernell says he's still spending his cut from the protagonist's previous heist, while Rooster suggests the protagonist keep robbing Strickler's compound.
The update also introduced the Assault on Cayo Perico adversary mode.
Mount Chiliad is one of three named mountains in Blaine County , San Andreas in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the others being Mount Josiah and Mount Gordo . Mount Chiliad is the tallest peak in the state.
Located far to the north, in the Chiliad Mountain State Wilderness , it serves as the tallest mountain in the game at 2774m [ 1 ] above sea level. Two small towns sit at its base. Grapeseed can be found to the southeast, and Paleto Bay to the northwest.
Chilliad had a role in the Los Santos Gold Rush in 1948 , a likely reason that places like Harmony , Sandy Shores and Grapeseed were created Chiliad is likely based on Mount San Jacinto ; however, it could also be based on Mount San Antonio and/or San Gorgonio Mountain .
The strange mural inside the tramway.
At the base and peak is an aerial tramway station to facilitate travel (however, the tramway is not available in GTA Online ). There is also a hiking trail marked on the map that runs down the east side of the mountain.
At the peak of the mountain is a small wooden observation deck. Two stationary telescopes can be found on the deck, which cost $ 1 each per use. In addition, two dirt bikes are parked at the peak of the mountain near the observation decks. There is also a derelict wooden ramp near the Gondola station that can be used to drive off the edge.
Inside the cable car station is a cryptic drawing on a wall that depicts what appears to be the mountain and various symbols. There appears to be two sealed doors leading to a cable car station room directly adjacent to the mysterious drawing. The meaning of this drawing relates to petroglyphs that can be found on the side of the mountain in relation to UFOs. Many players have noted that one part of the mural appears to depict a jetpack which is used to escape the launch facility during a GTA Online mission in the region. This same drawing can be seen on one of the murals inside of the Mount Chiliad Launch Facility , a secret facility that contains a lab and is capable of launching missiles, during the GTA Online mission. [ 2 ] The inclusion of this drawing on the mural suggests that the US government is somehow involved with the mystery of the UFOs. An egg is also visible which also has a related mission in GTA Online in Smuggler's Run , and can be found underwater in Cayo Perico .
The message "COME BACK WHEN YOUR STORY IS COMPLETE" is written on the back of the observation deck. Under the observation deck, there is a large red eye on the mountain itself, resembling the eye from the cable car station drawing. This is later revealed by the clues on the mountain to be related to the hidden UFO sighting. The same eye can also be seen at the Beam Me Up site in Sandy Shores , along with a drawing of a rain cloud. The mural leads to petroglyphs which can be found on the side of the mountain to unlock the mystery of the mural. These glyphs like the ones at the other sites are likely to inform the player that the weather must be stormy during night in order to see the UFO above the mountain after completing 100% of the story mode.
As revealed in The Doomsday Heist , the mountain is home to a secret US nuclear launch facility built within it in the 1960s that was left locked for decades until Avon Hertz and his AI Cliffford took it over to wipe out all of humanity. However, they were ultimately stopped in 2017 by the combined efforts of the IAA , Lester Crest and the GTA Online Protagonist . After the heist, it was likely resealed.
The model of UFO that appears.
Upon reaching 100% game completion and standing on the observation deck, a UFO with FIB markings will appear overhead. There are three conditions that must be met:
Once the UFO appears, it will stay there as long as the player is on the mountain peak. In addition, other UFOs can be sighted in other locations. It can also appear via save game modding at any time/weather. If approached too close by the player, it will disappear.
Overlook sign texture in Silent Probe Mountain .
The Maze Bank Tower is a skyscraper in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , located in Pillbox Hill , Los Santos , San Andreas .
The skyscraper and its adjoining plaza and gardens occupy an entire block in Pillbox Hill , demarcated by San Andreas Avenue , Vespucci Boulevard , Alta Street and Power Street . It is the tallest building in the State of San Andreas and one of the most recognizable buildings in Los Santos .
It is the main headquarters for Maze Bank , featuring large Maze Bank signage at the top of the building, which light up at night. At the base of the building, parking garage access is present on the south and east sides of the plaza base, while delivery entrances are found on the north and west sides, but none offer any access underground. The plaza itself can be accessed from stairs at the south-west corner, decorated with fountains and trees. The plaza is made up of a complex of gardens, fountains and steps which circle the building. It can also be accessed from the upper ramps of San Andreas Avenue which elevates to the building's main entrance, equipped with parking ramps leading to a garage door, but are only functional in GTA Online . A foot-bridge connects the plaza to the neighboring Schlongberg Sachs building. Maze Bank brick sculptures are positioned at the north-east corner as well as the south-east stairway entrance. The maze-themed graphics are dotted around the exterior, too. On top of the building is a helipad. Roof access is present but only accessible during certain missions and fully usable in the enhanced version of GTA Online as an Office .
According to the description of the deleted parachute jump "Figure of Eight" in Grand Theft Auto Online , the top of Maze Bank Tower is at an altitude of 1,050 ft, making it almost half the total height of Mount Chiliad . In Jock Cranley 's campaign video, it is claimed that the tower was built "prior to 1985 ".
The Maze Bank Tower may be considered the HD Universe counterpart of the similar-looking unnamed Los Santos Tower from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
Despite being a relatively prominent building among the Los Santos skyline, it makes fewer appearances compared to those of the Union Depository to the north and the IAA and FIB Headquarters to the east.
Between 14:00 and 00:00, a modified Jester , Massacro , Turismo R or Zentorno may be seen driving out of the south parking entrance onto Vespucci Boulevard in the enhanced version of the game. [ 3 ] A random car may also be seen driving out of the same spot between 07:00 and 11:00 in all versions of the game. [ 4 ] Between 13:00 and 18:00, a Stockade may be seen driving out of the west parking entrance onto Alta Street , [ 5 ] and between 05:00 and 13:00, a Stockade may be seen driving out of the north side delivery entrances onto San Andreas Avenue . [ 6 ] Between 07:00 and 15:00, a random car may be seen pulling up into a parking space on the west side of the building. [ 7 ] Between 07:00 and 11:00, a Taxi may be seen driving out of the lay-by main entrance at the north side of the building. [ 8 ] Throughout various hours of the day, pedestrians can be seen hanging out around the entrances to the building. Between 10:00 and 20:00, a Frogger may be seen flying around Pillbox Hill and sometimes taking off from the rooftop helipad. [ 9 ]
Large trucks such as Mules can sometimes be found parked outside the west delivery entrance or the south side of the complex, and various cars may spawn parked in the parking area on the west side along Alta Street .
It plays a major role in the enhanced version of GTA Online , where it serves as an Office for Organizations as part of the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update. It is purchasable on the Dynasty 8 Executive website for $4,000,000, and, as part of the Import/Export , can be expanded with an Office Garage , allowing access to the garage door located on the side of the ground floor.
The player can set up the SecuroServ network and begin Special Cargo , Vehicle Cargo and launch Special Vehicle Work . The office's helipad allows the player to quickly select an aircraft and immediately spawn mid-air above the helipad, or select a ground vehicle to be delivered outside, without the need to exit the building on foot.
The building is heavily based on the real-life U.S. Bank Tower in Los Angeles , the tallest building in the city until 2016 and the 81st tallest building in the world .
Vinewood may refer to:
Grove Street is a cul-de-sac street located in Los Santos . It is noticed to be present in two versions:
You may also be looking for:
The Ocean View Hotel is a location appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
Malibu Club is a nightclub appearing in two different universes of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Starfish Island. The largest mansion on the far side of the island is the Vercetti Estate .
Starfish Island in 1986 and 1984 .
Starfish Island is a large oval-shaped island at the center of Ocean Bay in Vice City , Florida , appearing in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Located between southern Vice City Beach and Vice City Mainland , Starfish Island is a wealthy district and gated community containing lavish mansions and large estates with swimming pools, large garages and parked speedboats. There are also two swimming pools, one in the shape of a Rockstar logo and one shaped like a bikini-clad woman, on the island in the yards of two mansions.
The Patrol Invest Group provide protection for most of the island's residents while Diaz's Mansion (later called the Vercetti Estate) has its own gang for protection- Diaz's Gang , and later, the Vercetti Gang . VCPD officers, however, are sometimes seen chasing the Patrol Invest Group guards.
The island is home to drug baron Ricardo Diaz until 1986 , when he is killed in a large shoot-out involving Tommy Vercetti and Lance Vance , who take over the estate .
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , the island is unlocked after completing Guardian Angels , as Ricardo Diaz has invited Tommy to visit his mansion there.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the island is the only region other than the Vice City Mainland that is unlocked from the very start of the game.
Starfish Island's design is likely to be inspired by the many residential islands, both natural and artificial, that link Miami Beach and mainland Miami , including the Venetian Islands along the Venetian Causeway , and Palm Island , Hibiscus Island and Star Island adjoining the MacArthur Causeway .
Prawn Island is a small island in northern Ocean Bay in Vice City , Florida , appearing in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Located between Downtown and Vice Point , the island is a combination of both residential and industrial buildings, with the InterGlobal Films studios and several nondescript offices on the south side and several lavish mansions on the north. In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , it is the turf of the Streetwannabe's (formerly known as the Sharks). The name is play on the name for a crab, prawn, and pron, the alternative name for pornography, due to InterGlobal Films' role in the pornographic film industry.
During Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Prawn Island has several beautiful villas, but by the time of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City they have been abandoned, boarded up, and taken over by the Streetwannabe's. Prawn Island was the main base of the Mendez Cartel where their mansion was located, and was later abandoned upon the death of their leaders and fallen into the hands of the Streetwannabe's.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , the island is the only region other than Vice City Beach that is unlocked from the beginning of the game. While in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the island is locked until the completion of From Zero to Hero .
Prawn Island's design is likely inspired by Belle Isle in Miami Beach , but may also be inspired by the island municipalities of Bay Harbor Islands and North Bay Village in Miami-Dade County .
Little Haiti is a neighborhood in Vice City , Florida , that appears in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Little Haiti is noted to be more run-down than Little Havana , with the presence of poorly maintained buildings, low-wealth businesses and smaller homes. The Haitians gang's solvent factory , located at the west side of Little Haiti, was destroyed in a Cuban ambush , aided by Tommy Vercetti . A large printing press , which would be purchased by Tommy Vercetti later in the storyline for money counterfeiting, is located at the border between Little Haiti and Little Havana. Phil Cassidy's home and weapons armory is located on the northwest end of Little Haiti. Kaufman Cabs , a local taxi cab company, is also based in Little Haiti, located a block north of Auntie Poulet's Shack . An area within Little Haiti has its own zone name: Junk Yard , it consists of equipment and vehicles associated with junk yards in real life.
Little Haiti is based on the real-life neighborhood of Miami with the same name .
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories ( 1984 ), Little Haiti is under control of the Cholos street gang that at the time also controlled Little Havana. The Cholos were presumably to be wiped out after their weapon warehouse was destroyed by Victor Vance and the Cubans leaving Little Haiti open for the Haitians control which takes place two years later.
Little Havana is a neighborhood in Vice City , Florida in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . It is on the mainland , adjoining the districts of Vice Port , Escobar International Airport , Little Haiti and Starfish Island (the last of which is connected by a road bridge).
According to a MeTV broadcast, Little Havana was "long synonymous with gang presence" and was "a prime example of the problems of the American social policy for the last thirty years".
In 1984 , Little Havana is controlled by a Mexican gang known as the Cholos . According to MeTV, the gang rivalry in the area used to be low-key and primarily between the Cholos and the Trailer Park Mafia , but had recently became a three-way rivalry involving the Cubans , it is also reported by Phil Herrick that the Cubans and the Trailer Park Mafia were working together in order the drive the Cholos out. The Cubans appear to be feuding with the Cholos for control of Little Havana and at the same time, Trailer Park Mafia leader Marty Williams is fighting against the Cholos for control of the criminal activity in the area. The area comes under Cuban control when the Cholos' warehouse in Little Haiti is destroyed by the Cubans with the assistance of Victor Vance , effectively driving the Cholos from Vice City.
Little Havana is also the location of four empire building sites.
In 1986 , Little Havana is still controlled by the Cubans but their gang rivalry is now with the Haitians , with the Cubans defending their territory from the Haitians while simultaneously attempting to take over their territory in Little Haiti. Tommy Vercetti helps the Cubans in their rivalry against the Haitians but inadvertently fights against the Cubans for the Haitians after being drugged by Haitian leader Auntie Poulet . After severing ties with Poulet, Tommy helps the Cubans one final time by destroying the Haitians drug factory , strengthening the Cuban control of the area.
It is inspired by the real-life Little Havana in Miami , Florida, mainly inhabited by descendants of Cuban exiles/refugees who arrived in Florida after communist Fidel Castro took power in the aftermath of the Cuban Revolution in 1959.
Portland , also referred to as Portland Island [ 1 ] , is the easternmost borough in Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto Advance and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . It is the first island the player encounters in all the three 3D Universe games based in Liberty City.
Portland also makes a brief appearance in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas in The Introduction short film and the mission Saint Mark's Bistro .
While Portland is known as a primarily industrial portion of the city, focused on varied industries and shipping, a sizable residential and commercial population does reside in the island, as the majority of the island is occupied by several non-industrial districts. Much of the island's industrial population is concentrated towards Trenton at the south of the island, and is within a short driving distance to Portland Harbor and Atlantic Quays , which serves as seaports to the island and the city. Non-industrial properties tend to reside towards the north and west sides of the island. Portland also operates an elevated train service with three stations ( Rothwell Station in Hepburn Heights , Kurowski Station in Chinatown , and Baillie Station in Saint Mark's ).
The Saint Mark's district, located on a steep terrain north from Portland Harbor, is home to an Italian-American population, and is currently controlled by at least one Mafia family: the Leones . The Forelli Crime Family are also known to have influence in the area, especially in Marco's Bistro , a restaurant in the district. Chinatown, located northwest from the industrial districts, houses a Chinese-American population, with Chinese-owned commercial, industrial and residential property evident in the district. As for gang control in the district, Chinatown was once controlled by the Leones, until the Triads took over the area, with the help of the Sicilian Mafia , most especially Massimo Torini . As the Triads and Leone Family are enemies to each other, skirmishes between members from the Triad and the Leone Family occur frequently in areas bordering Chinatown and Saint Mark's.
Other districts of interest include the Red Light District , just west of Saint Mark's, which serves as a prime location for strip clubs and other adult businesses. For a time, it was controlled by the Sindacco Crime Family . However, they were kicked out of the city, and eventually, the Leones took over. Hepburn Heights , located north to the Red Light District, is home to several apartment projects. It was once a turf of the Leone Family; later on, however, the Hispanic street gang the Diablos would control the district. Harwood , located on the northern end of the island, is mostly underdeveloped, with only a few buildings (including the Head Radio broadcast station ), a junkyard , and the Porter Tunnel's Portland entrance/exit. Harwood is also infamous for the deaths of 11 men at the hands of Tommy Vercetti during the year 1971 , thus earning him the nickname "The Harwood Butcher".
The remaining districts of Portland are sparsely inhabited: Callahan Point (also known as Waterfront Promenade) is located under and around the foot of the Callahan Bridge , which links Portland and Staunton Island ; Portland Beach is an empty cliff-side beach located east of Saint's Mark; while consists of a tract of land and a stretch of road between Portland Harbor and Chinatown. Old platforms and train cars of a railway line are also found in eastern Harwood, as well as a railroad tunnel running under the Saint Mark's district, which directly links Harwood with Portland Harbor. Portland Rock , a small island housing a lighthouse, may also be seen east of Portland Beach.
The Portland Beach area was created to look like the beachy areas in and around New York, such as Coney Island and Fire Island , which are near the shores of Staten Island and Long Island , respectively. Chinatown, obviously enough, takes its inspiration from the Manhattan neighborhood of the same name . The Saint Mark's district takes it name from Little Italy in Manhattan. Trenton takes its inspiration from New Jersey's capital city and the Red Light District resembles Manhattan's 42nd Street of the 1980s.
The Callahan Bridge is a major bridge linking Portland to Staunton Island , and is one of two ways to cross the body of water dividing the two aforementioned boroughs. During the events of GTA Liberty City Stories , the bridge is under construction, but the player is still able to traverse the bridge, thanks to a ramp. After the events of GTA Liberty City Stories , the bridge was most likely completed, as the information pickup on the Portland end says that it would be completed May 1998 . It would still be used by 2000 , the setting of GTA Advance . However, by 2001 , a bomb destroyed a major part of the Callahan Bridge. It would take some time for it to be repaired and for it to be fully functional again.
The Porter Tunnel is the citywide tunnel system in Liberty City, with a segment linking Portland to Staunton Island. During the events of GTA III , the construction of the whole tunnel has been delayed several times, however, it would soon open segment-by-segment, starting with the section linking Portland to Staunton (after Last Requests ). The tunnel could also lead to Shoreside Vale , another borough of the city, with exits in Wichita Gardens and Francis International Airport . However, like the segment between Portland and Staunton Island, its opening would be delayed. The Portland entrance of the tunnel can be found at the northwestern edge of the district, in Harwood. Note, however, that there is completely no Porter Tunnel in GTA Advance , due to programming restrictions.
However, during the events of GTA Liberty City Stories , no segment of the Porter Tunnel existed linking Portland and Staunton Island. In replace of the Porter Tunnel entrance in Harwood during GTA III , there would be a port for ferries , providing rides from Harwood to Rockford in Staunton Island. Mayor Miles O'Donovan promised that the ferries would last, however, by 2000, it would ultimately shut down, as no ferries can be seen during GTA Advance.
Also, a subway line also connects the whole city. A subway stop can be found on the border of the Red Light District and Chinatown. The player may ride the subway to other designated stops in Staunton Island and Shoreside Vale. Again, this feature is unavailable in GTA Advance due to programming restrictions.
A rainy afternoon in the industrial district of Portland, with the Portland El in the foreground, in Grand Theft Auto III .
It is mainly based on the Queens and Brooklyn bouroughs in New York City.
According to Rockstar's GTA III: The Game Design Document book, the industrial areas of Portland are based on the port area of Leith in Edinburgh , Scotland , the hometown and headquarters of Rockstar North .
Residential areas of Portland also includes some areas that appears to be based on Little Italy, Manhattan ( Saint Mark's ) and the Chinatown district from either Manhattan or Baltimore . [ 2 ]
Portland is made up of the following neighborhoods:
Atlantic Quays is an industrial neighborhood located on the southeast shore of Portland. It borders an unnamed body of water (probably the Atlantic Ocean) to the east, Portland Harbor and Trenton to the north and Callahan Point to the west. It is based on the Brooklyn neighborhood of DUMBO .
Callahan Point is an industrial district located on the southwest shore of Portland. It borders an unnamed body of water to the west and south, Atlantic Quays to the east and Chinatown and Trenton to the north. It is based on the Brooklyn neighborhood of DUMBO.
Chinatown is a residential district located on the western shore of Portland. It borders Callahan Point to the south, the Red Light District to the north, Portland View to the east and an unnamed body of water to the east. It is based on the Brooklyn Chinatown .
Harwood is an industrial district located on the northern shore of Portland. It is borders an unnamed body of water to the north and to the Saint Mark's and Hepburn Heights to the south.
Hepburn Heights is a residential district located on the western shore of Portland. The district is bordered by Harwood to the north, the Red Light District to the south, Saint Mark's to the east, and an unnamed body of water to the west. It is based on the neighborhoods of Brooklyn Heights , Queensbridge and Brownsville .
Portland Beach is a lifeless rocky beach and neighborhood located on the northeastern shore of Portland. It borders Harwood, Saint Mark's and Portland View (north-to-south) to the west, Portland Harbor to the south and an unnamed body of water to the north and east. It is based on the Long Island neighborhoods of Coney Island and Fire Island .
Portland Harbor is an industrial shipyard and a neighborhood located in the eastern shore of Portland. It borders Atlantic Quays to the south, Portland View and Trenton to the west and Portland Beach to the north. It is based on the Brooklyn Navy Yard .
Portland View is an industrial district located in the central part of Portland. It borders Saint Mark's to the north, Trenton to the south, Portland Harbor to the east and Chinatown to the west.
Red Light District is a red-light district on the western shore of Portland. It borders an unnamed body of water to the west, Hepburn Heights to the north, Saint Mark's to the east and Chinatown to the south. It is based on "The Block" in Baltimore and 42nd Street in Manhattan .
Saint Mark's is a residential district in northeastern Portland. It borders Harwood to the north, Portland View to the south, Portland Beach to the east, and Hepburn Heights and the Red Light District to the west. It is based on Little Italy .
Trenton is an industrial district located in Portland , Liberty City . It borders Portland View to the north, Atlantic Quays to the south, Portland Harbor to the east and Chinatown to the west. It is based on Red Hook .
The following people are currently residing or have resided in Portland:
Atlantic Quays .
Callahan Point .
Chinatown .
Hepburn Heights .
Portland Beach .
Portland Harbor .
Portland Rock .
Portland View .
Red Light District .
Saint Mark's .
Snowy Saint Mark's as depicted in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
The Ferry terminal in Harwood .
The Portland entrance/exit of the Porter Tunnel .
An early wireframe of Portland.
Portland from above on the official Grand Theft Auto III website.
Staunton Island is a borough in Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto Advance and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . It is the second island the player encounters in all the three 3D Universe games based in Liberty City.
Commerce is plentiful and weapons can be acquired from two different stores: one selling regular weapons available to many, and the other selling militia-style or army-type weapons available to only soldiers and Toni Cipriani .
Staunton Island is also, up until 1998 , the home of at least two Mafia families: the Sindaccos and the Forellis . Staunton Island has its very own Yakuza -owned casino , which cannot be entered.
Staunton Island consists of a high-rise downtown in the southern part, a high-rise Midtown in the Center and a much smaller skyline in the northern part or more of the Uptown. Staunton Island is home to eight districts.
South of the Callahan Bridge are the districts of Torrington and Bedford Point. Both are home to Staunton Island's massive skyscrapers and aimed at modelling on what is a mixture of Downtown and Midtown Manhattan today.
In the middle of Staunton Island is the districts of Belleville Park and Newport. A more moderate skyline compared to that of its roaring neighbors of Torrington and Bedford Point in Downtown, Midtown Staunton is home to several of Staunton's landmarks.
Composed of Aspatria, Rockford, Liberty Campus, and Fort Staunton, Staunton Island's more 'uptown-ish' area is comprised of mostly apartments.
While Staunton Island appears to be named after Staten Island , its Midtown and Downtown areas are mostly based on Manhattan , New York City , while the Uptown areas appears to be a mix of Bronx ( Liberty Memorial Coliseum ), Manhattan's Riverside Park ( Aspatria Waterfront Park ) and, according to Rockstar's Q&A, might have inspiration from other East Coast cities ( Philadelphia , Baltimore and/or Detroit ). [ 1 ]
East Monroe Avenue in Bedford Point .
Computer Generation of Staunton Island.
Staunton Island from above on the official Grand Theft Auto III website.
Shoreside Vale is a borough in Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto Advance and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . It is the third and last borough the player encounters in all the three 3D Universe games based in Liberty City.
Shoreside Vale is primarily residential, but also features the Francis International Airport to the south, a light commercial and industrial estate ( Pike Creek ) on the western edge, and the Cochrane Dam in the northwestern corner. Shoreside Vale is the only part of the city situated on the mainland and is considerably hillier than the other two boroughs, with a mountain range along the northern edge of the borough.
With steep elevation changes, a river dividing the main residential area from the industrial estate and the airport, and roads, bridges and tunnels criss-crossing each other at different elevations, Shoreside Vale is notoriously tricky to navigate. For this reason, Shoreside Vale is a very poor choice for the vehicle missions .
Shoreside Vale was internally named as the 'Suburban' area during development, and, according to beta maps, the southern part of Shoreside Vale was going to consist of roads and possibly more suburbs, until the airport was moved towards Shoreside Vale instead. It is mainly based on the various suburbs in Weschester County in Upstate New York, the Bronx, and parts of north-east New Jersey.
Cedar Grove is an upper-class residential neighborhood which takes its name directly from a New Jersey suburb. It is based on White Plains, New York and Cedar Grove New Jersey. It is controlled by the Colombian Cartel , and is home to some of the more wealthy residents of Liberty City. It consists of lavish mansions with swimming pools and fast sports cars on the drive-ways. Donald Love 's mansion (later taken over by Catalina and the Colombian Cartel) and one of Toni Cipriani 's safehouses in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories also lie within this area.
The tunnel that leads from one side of Cedar Grove to the other seems to have another road that leads to another part of Liberty City. The tunnel is unavailable to the player in GTA III , but in GTA Liberty City Stories the player is allowed to use it to get to points around Cedar Grove. There seems to be another road that leads to a northern part of Shoreside Vale, but is blocked off and cannot be driven on. The sign above the road reads " Upstate ". Rockstar stated there was never meant to be anything on the other side of the tunnel, but was used to give the player a feeling that Liberty City was larger than just the areas the player could explore [ 1 ] . In GTA III the player can fly a Dodo around the "upstate" part of Liberty City and will only find more hills. It could possibly be outside Liberty City since the maps of Shoreside Vale show it is part of the mainland.
Francis International Airport is Liberty City's airport is situated on the southern half of Shoreside Vale, just off the main road coming into the area. Other features in this district include a long-term parking lot, a fire station , a subway station and a police car parked. There is a lot of airplanes and helicopters around the airport, however, none of them are accessible, with exception of the Dodo.
Pike Creek is a light commercial and industrial district located in the western section of Shoreside Vale and is very similar to industrial areas on the outskirts of Yonkers, New York and Newark, New Jersey. It is home to the offices of several businesses, including Punk Noodles , Turtle Head Fishing Co. , AMCo. Petroleum Company , and Liberty Pharmaceuticals . Services include the local police station, the hospital , Pay 'n' Spray and 8-Ball's bomb shop . Pike Creek is Yakuza turf in 1998 , but is occupied by no gang in 2001 , the setting Grand Theft Auto III (although it does have Yakuza presence during one mission ).
Wichita Gardens is a low-wealth residential neighborhood, mainly composed of Section 8 housing projects, like common neighborhoods In Yonkers and The Bronx in which it is mostly based on. It was formerly controlled by the Forelli Crime Family , but it is now controlled by the Southside Hoods , thanks to Toni Cipriani's help . It is also home to one of Claude 's safehouses .
Overview of Shoreside Vale .
Cedar Grove .
Cochrane Dam .
Francis International Airport .
Pike Creek .
Wichita Gardens .
Shoreside Vale viewed from its hills.
These following people are residing or have resided the Shoreside Vale.
A map of Shoreside Vale in 1998 , the setting of Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
A map of Shoreside Vale in 2001 , the setting of Grand Theft Auto III .
Shoreside Vale from above on the official Grand Theft Auto III website.
Ganton is a neighborhood of Los Santos , San Andreas , that appears in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
The neighborhood is bordered by Idlewood to the west, East Los Santos to the north, Willowfield to the south and East Beach to the east.
Ganton is the main stronghold of the Grove Street Families , as Grove Street is located here, and is populated by many Grove Street Family gang members. These include Carl Johnson , Sweet Johnson and Lance "Ryder" Wilson . Former residents revealed at the beginning of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas include Beverly and Brian Johnson (both deceased) and Melvin "Big Smoke" Harris (who moved to Idlewood in 1989). The area is majority African-American.
Ganton has a very high crime rate, with prostitution, gang violence, car crime (especially carjackings ), poverty and drugs (especially crack-cocaine ) as the main issues. Upon nightfall many prostitutes , Grove Street gangbangers, and drug dealers will spawn.
Because of this, Police Mavericks (also known as "ghetto birds") regularly patrol the area, flashing searchlights on gang members and other criminals. These helicopters will not pursue Carl unless he has a 3-star wanted level or higher. Vehicles may occasionally travel onto Grove Street, either performing U-turns or parking in random driveways.
On the bridge going over Grove Street, if the player is driving fast enough, they can crash through a particular section of the wall and land onto the cul-de-sac below (this happened to Frank Tenpenny in the final mission of GTA San Andreas , " End of the Line ").
Ganton is structured as two different areas. The first area is highly residential, consisting of many small, single-family houses, a bar ( Ten Green Bottles ), and a long street from the Ganton/Idlewood border which runs and ends into Grove Street. There are two turns here, a small bridge which takes the player into East Los Santos and a small road that takes the player into the second half of Ganton.
The first area primarily consists of pedestrians (especially Grove Street itself). The second area is much busier, containing more traffic, and a long busy road which stretches from East Beach to Idlewood. The second area also contains housing projects known as the Southwest Ganton Projects , a southern road which takes the player into Willowfield , and a long, raised bridge which takes the player over Grove Street and into East Los Santos.
There is a higher level of gang violence at the Ganton/Idlewood border. The two neighbourhoods are separated by the Brown Streak Railroad . This is because Idlewood is Ballas territory while Ganton is Grove Street Families territory. It is not uncommon to see Grove Street/Ballas shootouts from across the train tracks.
Ganton is the main stronghold of the Grove Street Families, but begins to come under increasing pressure from Ballas gang members (especially through the crack cocaine epidemic), hoping to take the area for themselves. This is enforced by Big Smoke, Ryder and Mark "B-Dup" Wayne , who are secretly affiliated with the Ballas through a clandestine deal. Drugs have become a large problem in Ganton, mainly through Smoke and Ryder buying drugs from the Loco Syndicate ( Mike Toreno , T-Bone Mendez and Jizzy B. ).
Ganton eventually falls into the hands of the Ballas, after Carl Johnson is taken to Angel Pine by C.R.A.S.H. and Sweet Johnson is taken to a prison hospital during the mission The Green Sabre . The Grove Street Families disband with no leadership, although former gang members continue to wear the green colors. They more than likely continue to reside in Ganton, although they are not visible on the streets during Carl and Sweet's absence, instead, Ballas will start to form a presence on the streets. The former Grove Street gang members, under the influence of Big Smoke, cooperate with the Ballas and Los Santos Vagos .
Carl and Sweet ( released via Mike Toreno) later return to Ganton, which is in disarray due to the influx of drugs and Ballas. They reclaim Ganton for the Grove Street Families during the mission Home Coming (re-establishing the Grove Street Families as a major force in the Los Santos gang underworld, and use Ganton as a base for attacking other districts (such as Idlewood ). Ganton, along with the rest of Los Santos, is later plagued by riots following the acquittal of Frank Tenpenny , although Carl and Sweet manage to "lock down" Grove Street, and bring stability to Ganton as a whole. Ganton also serves as the location of Frank Tenpenny's death, when he dies from injuries sustained when the Fire Truck he is driving lands in Grove Street after crashing off the bridge going over the street.
The name is a play on real life city Compton, California , located within Los Angeles County. However, the housing projects areas where B-Dup formerly resided is more based on and partly resembles the Imperial Courts Housing Projects in Watts , Los Angeles. Likewise, the main road in Ganton primarily resembles Rosecrans Avenue in Compton. The name "Ganton" may come from a district in Edinburgh (the Scottish city where the Rockstar North HQ is located) named " Granton ".
Ganton is a stronghold for the Grove Street Families and it remains one of their few territories in eastern Los Santos after the gang's decline. Ganton is often attacked by the Ballas and the Vagos as the neighbourhood is completely surrounded by their territories.
In the mission Drive-Thru , Carl, Ryder, Smoke and Sweet were dining at a Cluckin' Bell in Willowfield , and spotted a Ballas' Voodoo heading to Grove Street, the four successfully gave chase to the invading Ballas and destroyed their car, killing the intruders.
Another attempt, depicted in the mission " House Party ", three huge swarms of Ballas tried to attack Grove Street during a house party hosted by Jeffrey Cross, AKA OG Loc. Going through all possible alleyways and bridges to take the Families by surprise. Later on, the GSF lost a fight against the Ballas resulting in Sweet's arrest and resulted in the GSF being completely disbanded in Los Santos , and Ganton falling into the Ballas control.
Near the end of the game, Sweet is released from prison and orders Carl to take him back to Grove Street, there, the two brothers in a cooperative effort eliminate all the Ballas in the Grove Street within Ganton, taking the neighborhood back as a GSF territory again .
The following vehicles may be seen around the district:
Idlewood is a neighborhood of Los Santos , San Andreas , that appears in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
North of the district are Glen Park and Jefferson , while to the south are Willowfield and El Corona . Districts west of Idlewood are Commerce and Little Mexico , while to the east are Ganton and East Los Santos .
Idlewood is an African-American neighborhood with a high crime-rate and, just like Ganton, is notorious for gang violence, drug-trafficking and prostitution. Idlewood primarily consists of single-family houses, housing projects, stores, a Pizza Stack restaurant, a gas station , a few warehouses and the Alhambra nightclub , the most visited and known place of interest in the area. Other places in the district include a tattoo parlor and Old Reece's barber shop . Although Idlewood can be classified as a low-income district, the west area appears to be middle-class, and bigger houses can be found there, and includes the Alhambra.
It appears to be inspired and named after the real-life incorporated city of Inglewood , California . However, the projects area of Idlewood (where the crack house is during the mission Cleaning the Hood ) bears resemblance to the Jordan Downs housing projects in Watts .
Idlewood, in 1992 , had become a stronghold for the Ballas gang, specifically the Front Yard set, but the district had previously been held by Grove Street Families . Sometimes Aztecas members can be seen walking their turf in the southern end of Idlewood as their territory shares a border with Idlewood (violence between them is common when this happens). Later on the game, in the mission Grove 4 Life , CJ and Sweet go to Idlewood and took at least two territories from there back. Carl Johnson can acquire Idlewood as GSF turf by starting a gang war , depending on the player's actions. After taking over the territory, there can be a lot of fighting between Varrios Los Aztecas and Grove Street Families in the area of Idlewood lying towards Unity Station.
In the mission Ryder , the player is introduced to restaurants and barbers by Ryder, shortly before an attempted robbery at the Pizza Stack restaurant as revenge for the restaurant employees painting over one of Ryder's graffiti. Later, during the mission Tagging Up Turf , CJ and Sweet head to Idlewood to spray over some Ballas graffiti while Sweet sits in his car waiting. CJ and Ryder raid a Front Yard Ballas crack den in Idlewood, killing all the Ballas and crack dealers inside.
Big Smoke's house in Idlewood is used as the starting point of his missions, in which he can be seen receiving information from the corrupt C.R.A.S.H. officers Frank Tenpenny and Eddie Pulaski .
The neighborhood plays a major role in the mission Grove 4 Life , where Carl and Sweet take either just a part or the whole area of the neighborhood back for the Grove Street Families .
The following vehicles may be seen around the district:
Rockford Hills is an incorporated affluent city in Los Santos County , San Andreas , in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . The area also contains the smaller neighbourhood of Burton .
Rockford Hills Sign .
It is bordered by Hawick and Alta to the east, Downtown and Little Seoul to the south, Vinewood Hills to the north, and Richman , Morningwood , and Backlot City to the west.
Rockford Hills can be divided into two sections: northern end and southern end. The northern end consists of mostly residential homes and a small street with fancy restaurants. The southern end is dedicated to shopping and is also where Portola Drive is located. The Rockford Hills City Hall is located at the centre, just across the street from Mount Zonah Medical Center . The fire station and police station are situated here as well. In the east, the Rockford Plaza serves as the shopping centre to obtain overpriced clothing.
The district contains many high-end mansions, most of them built using Spanish-style architecture , a common styling for mansions in real-life Beverly Hills . Almost all of the mansions in Rockford Hills have a gate, a swimming pool, and a tennis court.
The district is based on Beverly Hills, California for its mansions and luxury lifestyle, with elements from Century City . Rockford Hills also contains many corporate buildings and retail outlets that are based on real life buildings and outlets in Beverly Hills. Even though the real Beverly Hills is a city separate from Los Angeles , Rockford Hills is considered a district of Los Santos.
The area is a setting for many missions in the game, particularly those which start or occur at De Santa Residence .
In Complications , Simeon orders Franklin to secretly invade the mansion and repossess Jimmy's BeeJay XL . Michael , hidden in the back seat, threatens Franklin with a gun and orders him to smash the windows of Simeon's dealership .
In Did Somebody Say Yoga? , Michael is given a spiked drink by Jimmy, he's pushed out of his car by Jimmy near their mansion in the neighborhood, shortly before Michael's hallucination of an alien abduction occurs.
In Meltdown , Devin Weston sends several Merryweather guards to take out Michael's family, while Michael and Jimmy were at the Oriental Theater celebrating the release of Michael's film . A large shootout between Michael and the guards took place in the mansion, and Michael's family survived.
Rockford Hills is home to higher-end businesses, in particular fashion as well as food.
Artwork of a woman holding a Bullpup Rifle in Rockford Hills .
A screenshot depicting Franklin in front of the Rockford Hills Sign .
De Santa Residence .
De Santa Residence (back side view).
Street view of Portola Drive in Rockford Hills .
A mansion in Rockford Hills .
Richards Majestic and Weazel Plaza , the tallest buildings in the district.
The Epsilon Center in Rockford Hills .
Rockford Hills Church .
Rooftop view of Rockford Hills .
Satellite view of Rockford Hills during character switching .
Aerial view.
Del Perro is an incorporated affluent city featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online located in Los Santos County , San Andreas . It is bordered by Pacific Bluffs and Morningwood to the north, Rockford Hills to the east and Vespucci to the south.
Del Perro is widely known for its beach and the world famous Pleasure Pier . Tourists can be seen wandering the streets of Del Perro, taking selfies and possibly uploading them to social networks like Lifeinvader .
Del Perro is a crowded city described as "trendy and hip", with many expensive houses and high tourism rates. The Del Perro Beach runs along to the west, where many people can be sunbathing on the beach or building sandcastles, overlooked by colorful beachside apartments. The famous Del Perro Pier is a good place to find tourists, wealthy locals, and tramps . The Prosperity Street Promenade , an upscale outdoor mall and important tourist attraction, runs through the heart of the city and serves as its main commercial street. To the north is the downtown district, where Del Perro's financial institutions are based within its postmodernist skyscrapers. The north side of Del Perro is a mix of commercial and residential, with quiet suburban homes and apartments tucked behind luxury hotels offering stunning views of the beach.
Del Perro is based on the city of Santa Monica, California . The name "Del Perro", which translates to "of the dog" in Spanish, is likely a reference to Santa Monica's nickname of "Dogtown".
The neighborhood is connected via the Del Perro Freeway and has a LST underground station .
Vespucci is a district appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , located in western Los Santos , San Andreas .
Satellite view of Vespucci.
Vespucci is an area more suited towards tourism, resorts, and vacations. Because of this, many stores and hotels are located in Vespucci. The most famous area is the Vespucci Beach Sidewalk , where tourists walking along the beach go to shop for souvenirs, bicycles, and ice cream. When people are tired of walking the beachfront, they sit on the various benches that dot the sidewalk. Vespucci can get very crowded at daytime, especially on the beach.
Vespucci is split into three sub-districts:
It is served by the Vespucci Police Station .
After Michael De Santa smashes his son's TV, he forces him to go to Vespucci Beach for a peaceful bicycle ride. The two ride along the beachfront before heading onto the Del Perro Pier . It is there that Michael finds out that his daughter was hanging out with pornstars. After Michael kills the pornstars chasing him and Tracey , the two park their Seashark on Vespucci Beach. In Friends Reunited , Trevor Philips moves into Floyd Hebert 's Vespucci Condo where he stays until Caida Libre .
In the summer of 2020 , the Kkangpae invaded the GTA Online Protagonist 's Galaxy Super Yacht and stole documents classifying the protagonist and captain Brendan Darcy as "permanent residents of international waters", as well as the yacht's jetskis. The protagonist locates the thieves in the Vespucci Canals , kills them and retrieves the documents. Brendan informs the protagonist that they were part of the Puerto Del Sol Yacht Club, so as revenge, Brendan requests that the protagonist head to the yacht club and sink their boats. The protagonist destroys and sinks the boats belonging to the Kkangpae boss , who tracks down the protagonist's phone and constantly threats them and issues a bounty on their heads. Eventually, the GTA Online Protagonist tracks down and kills the Kkangpae boss.
On November 19, 2020, a corpse and a briefcase appeared on the southwest coast of Los Santos at a random location ranging from Vespucci Beach to Los Santos International Airport.
The neighborhood is mostly based on Venice, California . The southernmost region ( Puerto Del Sol ) is based on the unincorporated community of Marina del Rey, California .
Downtown Los Santos is the downtown region of Los Santos . It appears in two Grand Theft Auto games.
South Los Santos is a district in Los Santos in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
It contains three neighbourhoods and the city of Davis .
South Los Santos, like neighbouring East Los Santos , is a poor and dangerous area. This part of Los Santos is characterized by street gangs that often fight with each other, resulting in an unsafe place to live in. South Los Santos is extremely different from North Los Santos. The stores, houses, and apartments are all rundown and in poor condition. Streets such as Grove Street and Forum Drive are filled with gang members that will attack anyone who dares to wander into their territory.
The area is based on the real-life South Central neighborhoods in Los Angeles .
South Los Santos is home to the poorest people in the entire city. The neighborhoods Chamberlain Hills , Strawberry , and Davis are predominantly African-American, while Rancho is predominantly Hispanic.
Mirror Park is a suburban neighborhood and park in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online located in East Vinewood , Los Santos . The neighbourhood is bordered by the Tataviam Mountains to the east, Murrieta Heights to the south, the rest of East Vinewood to the west, and the Vinewood Racetrack to the north.
Mirror Park, like the rest of East Vinewood , is home to post-ironic hipsters driving Issis and drinking Bean Machine coffee. The area is based on Echo Park and Silver Lake in Los Angeles , known for having a high concentration of hipsters in residence. The new developments in the eastern part may be influenced by Santa Clarita , which is just north of Los Angeles. Moreover, a mirror and an echo are both related to the phenomenon of reflection — a mirror reflects light, whereas an echo is a reflection of sound.
Mirror Park is primarily middle-class. The houses are average-sized, and most of them are situated around the park or up in the elevation, while some homes are also under construction. Many of the houses in the area are also being rented out by Wolfs International Realty , probably due to gentrification.
The layout of Mirror Park is quite simple. In the centre of the neighbourhood is the park itself. The streets surrounding the park are all lined with small houses. In the eastern end of Mirror Park, there are two cul-de-sac roads; one fully developed with occupied homes, and a second still under development with homes in various states of completion. In the south-east end of the neighbourhood, there are a section of streets made up of various different businesses; this serves as an area of commerce. There is also a Limited LTD Service gas station that comes with a convenience store located at the northern edge of the neighbourhood. Also situated in the north is one of two main sources of the Los Santos Storm Drain . Maintenance workers can be seen operating the machinery of the canal.
Unlike Glen Park , the 3D Universe equivalent of the district, Mirror Park is much more gentrified and has much lower crime rates.
Mirror Park is not served by the Los Santos Transit 's metro lines, although there are still several bus stops along the neighbourhood. Buses can be seen frequenting here. The Freight Train goes through an underground tunnel just under the neighbourhood.
GTA V exclusive locations | GTA Online exclusive locations
Chumash is a coastal town featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , located in Los Santos County , San Andreas .
Chumash is located just along the Western Highway , less than a mile northwest of the city of Los Santos along the coast. It is bordered by Banham Canyon to the east and south. Chumash is described as the "land of beach hipsters" by Dave Norton , and that "beards are in fashion". It is implied that the town has a large Central Asian immigrant population; Tahir Javan is one notable example.
Chumash is wealthy and above middle class, as indicated by the large houses and the Chumash Plaza , a shopping centre with many different brands. It is also supposedly where all the "cool celebrities" live.
Chumash is located on a strip of land between the Tongva Valley and the beach. The town mostly consists of houses, except for the famous dock and a few convenience stores. Chumash mostly sits on top of sand rather than soil. The settlement continues further south, but strangely the southern half of the settlement is a nameless part of Banham Canyon .
Chumash, for some reason, has a large amount of convenience stores, mostly 24/7 . In fact, it is the area in the map with the most number of convenience stores.
The town strongly resembles the beach town of Malibu , California , specifically its eastern district, and its name likely comes from a tribe of Native American people who once inhabited the central and southern coastal regions of California, including Malibu. The word "Malibu" is also of Chumash origin.
Chumash is one of the main settings during the mission By the Book . In Chumash, Dave Norton and Michael De Santa overwatch a party with a sniper rifle , looking for Azerbaijani terrorist Tahir Javan .
It is also the place where Timm 's random event can be found.
Fort Zancudo is a U.S. military installation operated by the Army , the Marine Corps , and the Air Force featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Fort Zancudo is the only military base in Grand Theft Auto V and in the HD Universe so far. It also includes a fire station inside the base.
Satellite image of Fort Zancudo and surrounding areas.
Fort Zancudo is located on the outskirts of the Lago Zancudo swamps and at the base of Mount Josiah in Blaine County , San Andreas .
It is bordered by the Zancudo River towards the south, as well as Route 1 on the west with the Great Ocean Highway passing underneath the runway of the base via a tunnel. There is also a memorial that can be found by the Fort Zancudo Approach Road .
The base mainly serves as a base of operations, airbase and munitions depot for the United States Air Force. The United States Marine Corps are also stationed at the base, as suggested by the base's inhabitants yelling " Semper Fi motherfucker!" and "I'm a fucking Marine!" during combat, as well as "Here's a hello from the United States Marine Corps" during idle conversation.
According to the patches worn by many units, there are also Army personnel stationed here, which means Fort Zancudo serves multiple branches of the American forces. It's possible that the Army elements in the base were attached to the 135th Airborne Division, as Brincat was part of this unit. Both the Marines and Soldiers wear uniforms resembling that of the Marine Corps Combat Utility Uniform by cut and the Army Combat Uniform by appearance, the standard uniforms of the United States Marine Corps and the United States Army. However, the Marines' wear a tan vest resembling the Modular Tactical Vest just like their real-life counterparts.
Naturally, Fort Zancudo is heavily guarded, as its perimeter is lined with high, anti-scale fencing stretched along the perimeter of the base and the only two entry points are guarded checkpoints, where they inspect incoming personnel that arrive.
The grounds are often patrolled by Rhino tanks, Barracks trucks or Crusaders . The local airspace is also controlled by P-996 LAZER fighter jets which have clearance to shoot down any aircraft not authorised to pass through. Often Cargobobs can be seen flying over the base.
Fort Zancudo features one main airstrip, a secondary airstrip, three large hangars, several smaller hangars, a munitions depot, rows of blockhouses for the base's inhabitants, a fire and rescue station, a refinery, Air Traffic Control tower, a main office, and depots for the many vehicles on-site. Outside of the fence are several water storage tanks and machinery, possibly to provide the inhabitants of the fort with their own sanitised water, in the event of an emergency.
Fort Zancudo's fleet is composed mainly of standard issue military vehicles including the Rhino, Cargobob, Buzzard , P-996 LAZER, and the Titan . However, on the Warstock Cache & Carry website, there are pictures of a Patriot -based ATV and a Hunter in one of the two Fort Zancudo runways.
The soldiers stationed at Fort Zancudo are rarely seen outside of the base. However, on some occasions, a large convoy consisting of Barracks and Canis Crusaders can be seen driving along Route 1 in the west or Route 68 in the south, likely delivering supplies.
In 2013 , the GTA Online Protagonist steals Cargobobs from Fort Zancudo a total of four times. In one instance, the player is doing jobs for Trevor Philips and his company, Trevor Philips Enterprises . Trevor's friend Ron Jakowski instructs the player to steal a Cargobob from Fort Zancudo to use in the company fleet. The player flies to the base with a Velum . They then parachute in, destroy three LAZERs to prevent them from following, and steal the Cargobob.
In the second instance, Lester Crest informs the player about a shipping container at the Los Santos International Airport full of weapons being sent to Africa . The player steals a Cargobob from Fort Zancudo to lift up the container . The third and fourth instances are nearly identical to the second. The player steals a Cargobob from Fort Zancudo to grab containers full of weapons belonging to Merryweather Security .
In 2013, two soldiers are outside the base's southern approach presumably replacing a deflated tire of their Crusader. They are confronted by Trevor Philips and begin mocking him for being a Canadian . Trevor then grabs a Grenade Launcher from a nearby Barracks and the two soldiers run as backup arrives to attack Trevor. During the rampage , two Rhinos are dispatched in a bid to kill Trevor, only leading to their destruction.
Eventually, as Trevor plans to steal an experimental superweapon from Merryweather Security, he choses from two options on how to steal it. If he picks the offshore approach, he enters Fort Zancudo to steal a Cargobob for the heist .
Afterwards, as Trevor trails a Merryweather Security Cargo Plane in a Duster , he is instructed by Ron Jakowski to avoid Fort Zancudo as he flies by it. After he hijacks the plane, as Trevor plans to land it at McKenzie Field , two LAZERs begin following him and order the cargo plane to be landed at Fort Zancudo. Trevor ignores the pilots, who proceed to shoot the plane down, causing Trevor to bail with a parachute and the plane to crash land in the Alamo Sea . Some time after, soldiers, Cargobobs, and tanks are sent from Fort Zancudo to stop a group consisting of Trevor, Michael De Santa , Franklin Clinton and another gunman, from robbing the Blaine County Savings Bank . As the group escapes in the scoop of a Dozer , the military attempt to kill the robbers, but are unsuccessful.
In 2017 , three hangars are put up for sale. If the player chooses to buy one, they are able to freely access the base. When they enter the hangar for the first time, they meet with Ron Jakowski who helps them set up an airfreighting business.
The main barracks of Fort Zancudo .
Unauthorized entry over Fort Zancudo airspace is strictly forbidden. Fort Zancudo Air Traffic Control will issue warnings to the player via radio. If the player flies over and departs the area or fires a weapon at the area, but does not hit anyone, a two-star wanted level will be attained.
Should the player choose to continue flying over the base after the warnings, a four-star wanted level will be attained, accompanied by P-996 LAZERs firing heat-seeking missiles and cannons. They will still warn the player if they are flying a P-996 LAZER over the base. If the player is flying low enough over the base, there will be no warning, but a wanted level will be gained if the player is spotted by someone on the ground. Alternatively, flying at a high altitude may not cause the player to be warned, resulting in no wanted level.
If the player gets too close to one of the two checkpoint entrances to Fort Zancudo, the soldier on-station will warn them. If one still hangs around if they ignore the second warning, then the guard will open fire and a wanted level will be issued.
If the player enters the base by ground undetected, a four-star wanted level will be obtained shortly after being spotted by personnel. This will sound the alarm and mobilize anyone on site, whether in a vehicle or not. Even if the player acquires a military vehicle (e.g., a Rhino) and tries to enter the base, they will treat it as stolen property and will open fire still.
If the player is on the ground, they can either drive straight through the checkpoint or go over the perimeter fence using one of the natural jumps.
In GTA Online , before the Smuggler's Run update, checkpoint gates never opened and the only way to get in by ground was to jump the fence. Now the player will still get a four-star wanted level even if they enter through a checkpoint, unless they also own a Fort Zancudo hangar.
The Mount Josiah path can be noticed by its dirt road which is less steep than the rest of the mountain. The player will usually land near the bleachers of the training grounds, although there is a chance of either landing in the large trench or on the road if the player is not fast enough. Following the release of the Import/Export update, this has been made significantly easier, as should the player own a Ruiner 2000 or Rocket Voltic , they can use the parachutes or rocket boost to ensure they make it over the fence and into the base.
Once inside Fort Zancudo, the player must act quickly and head for the runway area. If they are too slow or too reckless, they may be caught out by a patrolling Rhino Tank. Unlike previous games, the ones manned by NPCs will use their main guns on unsuspecting players. During Free Mode, the Rhinos are far more accurate than in missions, so care must be taken around them.
The following are heard from either ATC, the loudspeaker, or stationed guards:
The Fort Zancudo base appears to have a pair of coat of arms . Both can be seen at either entrance on the welcome signs, on access key cards and on the Savage . The light blue shield can be seen on several liveries for military aircraft, such as on the Cargobob, which features a monochrome version of the emblem. In Grand Theft Auto Online , this same emblem can also be seen on the Zancudo Camo livery for the Weaponized Conada , and on a livery for the Duster 300-H . In U.S. Military heraldry , a stylized globe like this is usually used by air force units, suggesting it is the emblem of the Fort Zancudo air force unit.
Both designs of the coat of arms, especially the design of the shield shape and motto banner, are identical to several real-life U.S. Army coat of arms, emblems and badges for units and groups. The emblems are present on the welcome signs for some of the bunkers , which is likely an oversight, since these signs are edited Fort Zancudo signs with the original text changed.
In a heraldic blazon, their designs would be described as:
Fort Zancudo closely resembles the real-life Vandenberg Space Force Base in Lompoc, California . Lago Zancudo's marshy environment suggests that Fort Zancudo is also based on that of real-life Naval Base Ventura County , Mugu Lagoon .
The base's personnel consisting of a majority of Marines suggests that it takes influence from Camp Pendleton , a major Marine Corps base which is also located close to the Californian coast.
Bolingbroke Penitentiary is the state prison of San Andreas in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , lying between the jurisdiction of Los Santos County and Blaine County .
It is governed by the San Andreas State Prison Authority . The prison is located on the Los Santos County side of Route 68 , just down the road from Harmony . The prison's shape is that of an octagon.
The perimeter of the prison is patrolled by the Los Santos County Sheriff and the Los Santos Police Department . There are armed San Andreas State Prison Authority officers standing near the entrances, making sure that no one attempts to break in or out.
A speaker system is heard commonly around the prison, often insulting the prisoners. There are 41 quotes. [ 1 ]
Trespassing into the prison leads to the player gaining a four-star wanted level , while shooting a weapon close to the penitentiary will lead to a three-star wanted level. Flying over the area will briefly give them a two-star wanted level before escalating to a four-star wanted level. However, in GTA Online , the player will always get a four-star wanted level even if they fly over the area.
The prison is divided into 12 blocks, as well as a front office and gatehouse with enclosed watchtower, garages, and utility structures. Blocks 1-7 are identical detached buildings situated in a circular pattern around the prison with entrances facing inward toward the center of the complex. Blocks 8A, 8B, 9A, 9B, and 9C are all interconnected structures at the center of the prison. The Central Unit, also labeled A2, shares a structure with Block 8A. Block 9A shares it's structure with the inmate receiving area, labeled New Inmate G3, as well as 2 enclosed watch towers on the North and South ends of the building.
The north yard only features concrete paths between buildings and to the garage and parking lot at the end of the gatehouse road, while the south yard is where inmates mingle and features basketball courts, tables, and a gym. Block 9B appears to be the recreational facility for maximum security, as part of the roof features grated ceilings looking down into empty concrete rooms.
The prison is surrounded by watchtowers, labeled 1-9, as well as a tower labeled A near the gatehouse. All watchtowers can be entered, and are garrisoned by snipers. Most of the buildings also have catwalks for guards to patrol around, giving exceptional visibility whilst keeping guards safely away from the inmate population.
The penitentiary layout and its desert location bears similarities to the Federal Correctional Institution in Victorville, California , and the Calipatria State Prison in Calipatria, California .
In the Heists update, during The Prison Break , the crew must storm into the prison to release a Russian prisoner named Maxim Rashkovsky . Some missions and races also take place in the prison in GTA Online .
In 2013 , a prisoner has his jaw broken by "Stretch" after snitching on a fellow inmate, which lands Stretch in isolation for five days, which he completes. Stretch also gets tattoos, one of them starting with leakin' real nasty , according to Stretch on his Lifeinvader page. It is during his time in Bolingbroke that Stretch forms an alliance with the Ballas and plans to sell out Franklin Clinton and Lamar Davis .
A random encounter can occur around the prison where an escaped prisoner pulls the protagonist over and then points a gun at them, and forces them to get out of their vehicle.
Demarcus Bradley , another inmate, states on his Lifeinvader page that a number of Davis High School students in the 2005 graduating class are in the prison and that he had received a friend request from the guard on his wing. He later goes blind, although it may only be temporary, after drinking prison made wine, watching his cellmate using a toothbrush he had used for other purposes and visiting the prison's 'total psycho' dentist. Prison food, judging by Demarcus' comments, is of poor quality in Bolingbroke.
During the "Prison Guard" variant of the Heist Prep: Vault Keycards mission for The Diamond Casino Heist , the player must enter the prison and kill a security guard to steal the Diamond Casino vault keycards. The player hijacks a prison bus and disguises themselves as a prison guard to gain entry without raising suspicion.
During The Prison Contract , the player has to break into the prison and kill multiple sets of targets identified by Lil' Dee for double-crossing their respective gangs before rescuing Lil' Dee and taking him back to Sessanta .
Los Santos International Airport could refer to:
Francis International Airport (FIA) is an airport located in Liberty City in both the 3D Universe and the HD Universe . There are two different universe renditions. They include:
Escobar International Airport in GTA Vice City , as viewed to the south.
Escobar International Airport ( IATA : EIA EIA Billboards in the PlayStation 2 version ), also known as Vice City International Airport ( IATA : VCIA ), is the airport in Vice City , Florida , featured in both Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Further north is the Fort Baxter Air Base , a military installation that houses military equipment and personnel, while Viceport (also referred to in road signs as "Vice Port"), the city's seaport, is located to the southeast.
Escobar International consists of three terminals, one at the north which is a standard blocky terminal with the addition of below-ground entrances, the other passenger terminal to the south is more distinctive, with its weaved roof and massive glass wall facing the airport's southern side. The southern terminal is also distinctive in that the player can easily enter the building and explore its spacious interior, the only airport to feature a normally accessible interior; however, the only access points to the terminal building are equipped with metal detectors that automatically leave the player's weapons, if any, outside whenever the player enters the building. Both passenger terminals are separated by lawns and a short term car park.
The third terminal is the Freight and Cargo Terminal, south east of both terminals; in 1984 , the setting for GTA Vice City Stories , however, there is no clear sign the Freight and Cargo Terminal exists. Escobar International also has a V.I.P. Terminal , as well as a long term car park, next to Vice City Transport Police headquarters.
In GTA Vice City Stories , there is a road that connects the airport to Little Havana . However, it is absent in GTA Vice City .
The tarmac area at dusk as viewed northwards in GTA Vice City .
The airport tarmac itself is largely non-interactive. The tarmac, predictably, is occupied by non-interactive passenger planes and private jets, while the former may also be seen taking off and landing at the airport's runways. In addition, no controllable aircraft can be found within the airport in GTA Vice City while GTA Vice City Stories ' rendition of the airport spawns a Maverick , Sparrow , Hunter and a Biplane after completion of certain missions. In both games, the player can also find Baggage Handlers driven by Security Guards traveling along a predetermined route within the tarmac area.
EIA appears to be mostly based on the Miami International Airport . It is located similarly to that in Miami, and the airport's logo is quite obviously based on MIA's logo; the airport is situated on its own peninsula in the southwest of the city and it has the old FAA control tower . The main terminal building's layout is loosely inspired by the TWA Flight Center at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories
The Infernus is a supercar that was first introduced in Grand Theft Auto III and has appeared in every GTA title since (except Grand Theft Auto Advance ) and has gained a reputation for being one of the oldest sports cars to still be in a vast number of GTA titles. It is manufactured by Pegassi in the HD Universe .
3D Universe The Infernus has moved between various visual influences between every title the vehicle has appeared in, but typically stays within the realm of an Italian supercar.
HD Universe The Infernus' HD Universe rendition is largely based on the first-generation Lamborghini Murciélago , more specifically the Murciélago LP 640 , as evidenced by the side vents and front bumper, while the rear fascia and venting are taken from early models of the Pagani Zonda , with a tail light placement closer to the Spyker C8 . The spoiler that comes as an extra, as well as the roof vent seem to be based on the 2007 Hamann Murciélago LP640 Bodykit . The rims on the Grand Theft Auto V rendition of the Infernus match the rims used on the Lamborghini Reventón , a limited production car based on the Murciélago.
3D Universe
Between Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Infernus has appeared in three different forms, each illustrating the car as a sleek, low-profile sports car comparable to the Cheetah .
In GTA III and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , the Infernus has a long body, rounded lights and an integrated spoiler. Although the design suggests an RMR layout, its engine is visible under the front hood, possibly due to limitations of the game engine. On the Android and iOS versions, the vehicle received an updated design, featuring bonnet intakes, rear louvers and white trim around the lights.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Infernus lacks the characteristic scissor doors seen on its real-life counterpart, and features bulged headlights and rounded tail lights, along with a spoiler. This model repositions the engine to the back, as the front compartment is revealed to be the bonnet (though the GTA Vice City rendition still emits smoke from the front when damaged).
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , the Infernus moves slightly towards the design of its GTA III ancestor, with an integrated spoiler and soft, rounded corners. The car can also be identified by its thin, bumper-integrated headlights, squared-off side ducts, and large brakelights that stretch the width of the car.
All renditions of the Infernus are available in a variety of monotone colours. In GTA San Andreas , the Infernus can be modified at any TransFender modification garage.
Grand Theft Auto IV
The Grand Theft Auto IV , the Infernus is shown to be manufactured by Pegassi. The car is characterized by the long body and the rear-mid rear configuration, sharing similarities with the GTA III and GTA Liberty City Stories renditions. The front bumper of the car features a carbon-fibre bottom/extender with an elevated area on the centre, along with three grated intakes. The upper area features a set of circular headlamps in carbon-fibre housings, protected by glass casings. The bonnet has a small manufacturer emblem on the front and a thin intake near the windscreen.
The sides denote its aerodynamic profile, featuring a set of skirts with an intake duct just in front of the rear wheels, as well as "PEGASSI" badges. The greenhouse area makes use of plastic trims around the windows, with a fuel inlet on the driver side. The Infernus is also the first car in the series to feature scissor doors; however, they appear to rotate away from the vehicle body, unlike the standard scissor-door design and purpose. This design trait allows the Infernus' doors to be self-closing, relying on gravity to fall shut from its opened position. Also featured are small, racing-style wing mirrors, along with a roof scoop and rear louvers.
The rear of the car is prominently covered in carbon-fibre, housing the five-exhaust set on the centre and the split circular tail lamps on the outer edges. The sections in between are occupied by grated vents exposing part of the engine bay, with the driver-side one bearing the "INFERNUS" badging. What appear to be two fins can be seen at the bottom. The Infernus may spawn with a rear spoiler as an extra.
The interior is fully finished in black leather and uses the same sport seats as the Comet . Sections of the dash and transmission tunnel are finished with carbon-fibre accents.
The Infernus is set to spawn in a variety of monotone colours on the body, although it is capable of supporting a secondary colour for a stripe over the side skirts (only seen on special variants). The car uses a set of five-spoke rims with bolt details on the surrounding and wrapped in low-profile tyres, with the rear ones being wider.
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars The Infernus in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars has the same design as the GTA IV rendition, although it is only available without a spoiler and features conventional doors.
Grand Theft Auto V and Online The Infernus in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online appears to be unchanged from Grand Theft Auto IV , with the exception of a new, red interior, though only in the last-gen version of the game; the enhanced version shares its predominantly-black interior with the Comet and Furore GT .
Colour distribution remains the same as in GTA IV , but the interior stitching matches with the primary colour of the car. The rims are identical to the "Shadow" high-end rims also available at Los Santos Customs .
3D Universe The performance of the Infernus remains similar in all of its appearances by being one of, if not the fastest car in each game. Unlike subsequent depictions that have an all-wheel-drive system, the Infernus in GTA III has a rear-wheel-drive layout.
Despite the change in drivetrain layout, its handling remains similar and its all-wheel-drive system means the car has good front grip. However, it suffers from understeer due to its small wheels and wheel wells. Caution must be taken while braking, as the wheels usually lock up during high speed braking. Power distribution is considered smooth, but due to its high-power output, moderation must be used when taking turns, otherwise fishtailing may ensue. Its suspension in GTA III and GTA Vice City , however, is softer, allowing it to drive over curbs without jolting the car substantially or bottoming out. Additionally, the drag multiplier is only 1, which means it is the most aerodynamic sports car in the game – this probably explains why it is often a bit difficult to handle. One of the downsides of the Infernus is its low durability, as it catches on fire only after a few collisions.
In GTA Vice City Stories , the AWD drivetrain of the Infernus has a 20% front, 80% rear torque distribution, and what sounds like a supercharged engine. With such speed and power, it is great for cruising along the beach, although its turning radius will suffer. The AWD drivetrain can be easily seen by flipping the car over; switching between the handbrake and regular brakes, while applying gas.
In GTA Vice City , the Infernus has the same engine sound as the Banshee , while in GTA Vice City Stories , it has the same engine sound as the Stinger .
3D Universe Overview
AWD ( GTA Vice City — GTA Vice City Stories )
1400 / 3086 ( GTA San Andreas — GTA Vice City Stories )
AWD ( GTA Vice City — GTA Vice City Stories )
Grand Theft Auto IV The Infernus returns retaining its renowned performance of high speed and acceleration. It is highly susceptible to deformation from high-speed impacts, due to its light body construction and rear mounted engine. Windshield ejection is also common due to the lack of substance in the front of the car. The Infernus is one of the best racing cars, but does suffer from understeer during high speed turns. However, the mid-engine configuration makes it unlikely to break down or be set aflame from front-end collisions. It is also good at performing quick J-Turns.
The in-game engine model is not very detailed, and cannot fully reveal the engine cylinder configuration. However, it can be said to be a V8, as it shares the same base model as the Turismo (which is stated on the Auto Eroticar website to use a Quad Cam V8), except it has "Infernus" engraved onto them. It is laid out in a mid-engined all-wheel drive layout, like most Lamborghinis. The Infernus shares its engine sound with the Comet and the Super GT . It also tends to backfire, like the Banshee, Buffalo , F620 , Sultan RS , and Bullet GT .
GTA IV Overview
Grand Theft Auto V and Online Returning in GTA V , the Infernus retains its high-performing engine, but exchanges understeer for oversteer and general poor stability. As before, it has excellent acceleration and speed due to the AWD drivetrain and what sounds to be a high-revving, high-power engine, but attempting to corner while letting off of the accelerator and not braking will cause wild spinouts and general loss of control. To counter this, the player must always keep either the accelerator or the brakes on throughout the turn. The mid-engine layout provides some measure of resistance against accidents and bullets, but otherwise its durability is disappointing, as its wheels can make a positive camber very easily when having side-on crashes.
Again, like in GTA IV , the engine is very undetailed and cannot fully reveal the cylinder configuration; however, the website states that it is a six-litre engine capable of pushing 610hp. The original version of the game uses the same engine sound as most supercars such as the Cheetah , but in the enhanced version, it uses a higher-revving, louder version.
GTA V and GTA Online Overview
Lance Vance 's unique Infernus in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
B Dup 's unique Infernus in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
Two variants of the Buoys Ahoy Infernus in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Stevie's Car Thefts Infernus in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The bullet-proof Infernus in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
Grand Theft Auto V and Online
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Grand Theft Auto III
The " Dyablo ", an early beta design prior to the release of Grand Theft Auto III .
The Infernus on the iOS and Android ports (note the detailed trim around the headlights). ( Rear quarter view )
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
Artwork of the Infernus in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
A variant of the Infernus that was cut from GTA Vice City . It is also seen in artwork for the game, and also in artwork for Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
An Infernus in The Definitive Edition of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . ( Rear quarter view )
Grand Theft Auto IV
A beta Infernus in " I'm Rich ".
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
Artwork of Huang Lee driving a blue Infernus .
Grand Theft Auto V and Online
An Infernus with a spoiler. ( Rear quarter view )
An Infernus in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . Note the red interior.
An NPC -modified Infernus outside Los Santos Customs in GTA V .
An NPC-modified Infernus in the enhanced edition of GTA V . ( Rear quarter view )
The Infernus on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Infernus on Legendary Motorsport .
Grand Theft Auto III
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories
Grand Theft Auto IV
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
Grand Theft Auto V
Enhanced version
The Infernus is part of the vehiclemodelset " LS_CUSTOMS_MODDED_SP ". This allows heavily modified Infernuses, among many other modified cars to spawn outside Los Santos Customs, as well at other locations. They only spawn in GTA V .
Grand Theft Auto Online
Grand Theft Auto III
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories
Grand Theft Auto IV
The Lost and Damned
Grand Theft Auto Online
Los Santos Tuners
Grand Theft Auto III
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Vice City Stories
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
Grand Theft Auto IV
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
Grand Theft Auto IV
Grand Theft Auto V and Online
Grand Theft Auto III
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Vice City Stories
Grand Theft Auto IV
Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars
A papercraft model of the Infernus , available for download on the Rockstar Games Social Club website.
Grand Theft Auto V and Online
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Cheetah may refer to:
The Banshee is a two-door sports car appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Comet is a recurring sports car that appears in both the 3D Universe and the HD Universe . It is manufactured by Pfister in the HD Universe.
The Comet in 3D Universe Grand Theft Auto games is inspired by the Porsche 911 , particularly the 911SC Targa from the late '70s to early '80s, with some design cues borrowed from the late '80s 911 models . In the original versions of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , the Comet has a fastback profile design with connected tail lamps and a curved rear window. However, on the Xbox and mobile versions of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , as well as all versions of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Comet features backwards-slanted standalone C-pillars, a small rear window, separated tail lamps, and a central license plate, resembling the rear of the Porsche 914 . The headlights may have been influenced by the Nissan Fairlady Z (S130) .
Unlike the older 911 models, the Comet has an all-wheel-drive setup, similar to the newer 911 models. In the 3D Universe games, the Comet is front-engined, in contrast to the real rear-engined Porsche 911.
Manufactured by Pfister, the Comet in Grand Theft Auto IV largely resembles a mix of the Porsche 996 Carrera 4S and the Porsche 911 (997) . Its headlights and certain additional elements draw similarities to the Porsche 987 Cayman , with the headlamp layout and the front bumper reminiscent of the Porsche Carrera GT . The C-pillar design appears to be a fusion of the Cayman and the Aston Martin V8 Vantage , while the distinct flat-profile rear somewhat mirrors the Aston Martin V12 Vanquish . The placement of the rear intakes may have been influenced by the Porsche 997.1 GT3 . Furthermore, the seats of the Comet are based on those found in the Lamborghini Gallardo . The Comet also features a set of concealed door handles, possibly inspired by either the Ferrari F430 or the Nissan 350Z .
Like the real 911, the GTA IV Comet is rear-engined, although it has a V8 engine rather than a flat-6 like most Porsches. Also, this version of the Comet has no license plate.
The Comet in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars remains similar to the GTA IV iteration, albeit with simpler details and a grey detail between the tail lamps.
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the Comet retains the same model as in GTA IV but features an updated design consisting of vented skirts, rear fender ducts, and a standard rear deck spoiler with small scoops, giving it resemblance to the Porsche 997 GT2 . It also now features a rear license plate.
The Comet is distinguished by its angled front end, small bumpers with overriders, and circular headlamps, along with their open tops.
The Comet in GTA Vice City only spawns in single body colours, while in later games, the rear pillars/section may receive a secondary colour.
The Comet remains mostly identical to its previous iterations, but assumes a newer, shorter design, where the front features a set of meshed intakes and small fog lamps, along with a small extender. The upper area features a set of circular headlamps and turn signals located on black housings, as well as a front-mounted, carpeted boot with space for luggage, similar to the Turismo. A Pfister logo is also seen on the front.
The sides of the car feature a rounded design with a flat skirting area, while the doors have silver vertical handles. The greenhouse area features black trim around the windows, black inner pillars, and body-coloured mirror shells. Right after the rear window, there is a set of thin vents intended for the engine. The rear of the car features a small engine compartment with a ducktail spoiler and the corresponding badges on it, while the tail lamps can be seen on the outer edges. The bumper is relatively simple and has two mouldings for the exhaust tubes.
Inside the vehicle, there are two sport seats in black leather. Pfister logos can also be seen on the headrests. The seats also feature yellow/orange stitching.
The Comet is only seen in a variety of single-body colours. The rim design is unique, having five wide spokes with five black bolts around the centre and wrapped in low-profile tyres. It also features large, cross-drilled disc brakes all around.
In the original versions of the game, the Comet's interior features a unique instrument cluster resembling the 2007-on Nissan GT-R, while in the enhanced versions , it shares the high-performance take on the EK-series Honda Civic cluster also shared with other Sports and Supercars.
The colour distribution is the same as before, but the interior stitching matches the body colour. The rims are similar to the ones from GTA IV , albeit featuring grooves on the spokes. However, there is a set of sport wheels in Los Santos Customs named "Super Five" which closely resemble the ones from GTA IV .
With its AWD powertrain, grippy tires, and powerful engine, the Comet in GTA Vice City and GTA San Andreas is one of the fastest and best handling sports cars in these games. The handling limits and grip levels of the vehicle are extremely high. The car remains completely stable even when cornering at full speed without any power oversteer or loss of traction. In fact, it is virtually impossible to drift with the Comet even in slippery conditions (such as on rainy roads or grass). The Comet's turn-in is very sharp, though there is a bit of understeer present. With its unflappable handling and near elite-level speed and acceleration, the Comet is an excellent car for Vice Street Racer challenges.
The GTA Vice City Stories counterpart has similar performance, while featuring a RWD powertrain.
The top-down convertible nature of the Comet allows the protagonist to jump over the driver's-side door, facilitating a more rapid takeoff.
RWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
RWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
The Grand Theft Auto IV rendition of the Comet is the fastest car in the game. The all-wheel drive layout ensures good standing-start acceleration, and high power ensures a top speed similar to that of exotic sports cars in the game. However, this car does subtly demonstrate a lack of torque; this is noticeable on hills when at low revs. This problem is minor, because Liberty City is mostly flat and street-constructed. Wheelspin and burnouts are very common with the Comet, because traction control is completely turned off.
High-speed cornering results in massive understeer in the Comet, but the car does have potential lift-off oversteer, or oversteer at lower speeds. The Comet also suffers from a weak suspension construction. The wheels are prone to buckle into the chassis after striking a curb laterally with less force than expected, making the Comet one of the more fragile sports cars.
The Comet is not necessarily superior in multiplayer racing; the Comet is lightweight and relatively unstable, leading to the car being rammed off-road by the other vehicles, or being launched into the air off of hills and losing control, depending on the player's driving skills. For this, the Comet has the stiffest suspension in the game, including the other sports cars.
This rendition is powered by a single cam carburetored V8, coupled to a five-speed gearbox in a rear engine, all wheel drive layout (20%-80%, front to rear torque distribution). Due to its rear-engine nature, the Comet, like most rear-engined vehicles, can survive huge amounts of crashes without any sign of damage to its engine, although its crash deformation resistance is rather low, increasing chances of having its wheels misaligned or even stuck if not being driven properly. It shares the engine sound with the Infernus and the Super GT .
The conventional Comet in Chinatown Wars retains its sporty performance, but is ranked below higher end sports cars in the same, although its handling and braking are considerably good. The modified variant of the Comet is superior in speed, but is otherwise similar in performance to a standard Comet.
The Comet is fairly similar to the GTA IV rendition. The mass, top speed and acceleration have been changed, however, and the most notable difference is that the GTA V version is rear-wheel drive, as opposed to a relatively uncommon all-wheel drive drivetrain in GTA IV . The car has fairly average performance for a sports car, but the traction is better than most of the sports cars. However, the car is very light and tail heavy, compared to similar cars such as the Feltzer and Elegy RH8 .
Like the GTA IV rendition, the Comet is still powered by the same single cam carburetored V8 (with the website claiming that it is powered by a 3-liter engine capable of pushing 550hp), this time coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a rear engine, rear wheel drive layout. Oddly, the website also claims it has a top speed of 203 mph, while the observed top speed was only 120 mph. It is, however, higher than what the handling top speed suggests, which is only 94 mph. The engine sound is shared with the Sentinel and the Tailgater .
The Triad Comet in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Style SR in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The 500 XLR8 in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The orange Comet in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The mauve Comet in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Comet can be modified at TransFender :
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Comet on the Xbox , Android and iOS versions of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . ( Rear quarter view )
The Comet in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - The Definitive Edition . ( Rear quarter view )
Michael driving a Comet in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An NPC-modified Comet spawning outside Los Santos Customs in GTA V .
The Comet on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Comet on Legendary Motorsport .
The Comet on Benny's Original Motor Works .
Comet poster in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Beta Comet , with a bigger Pfister logo on the trunk in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Truffade Adder is a two-door supercar featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Adder is heavily based on the Bugatti Veyron 16.4 Super Sport , as evident by the general shape, greenhouse area, rear fascia, and roof, with a major influence from the Bugatti Super Veyron concept renders by AutoExpress.co.uk, seen primarily in the side profile and some front and rear fascia elements. The front intakes and grille seem to be taken from the Audi TT Mk2 RS , while the headlights have a somewhat similar shape to the Saturn Curve , although the layout is similar to the original Veyron . The tail lights are based on typical Aston Martins , such as the 2005 Aston Martin Vantage , as they are flattened C-shaped tail lights.
The design of the Adder leans towards a bulky profile in comparison to most supercars, yet retaining aerodynamic features from these. The front bumper features large ducts near the base, featuring chrome trims passing on the upper side and leading to the outer edges. The bumper's bottom edge is raised for the width beneath the main grille, which seems to bear a black/polymer extender on it. The main grille is depicted as a wide, curved trapezium-like element, with the Truffade emblem mounted centrally on it. On the upper area besides the grille, a set of circular headlamps can be seen on black housings, each one consisting of twin main lamps and an outer turn signal.
The Adder's interior uses the same "Super GT" textures and dials also used on the 9F and Rapid GT , albeit featuring a Truffade emblem on the right-side dashboard, as well as the Truffade 'T' logo on the steering wheel.
The Adder is prominently painted in a primary colour for the bodywork and the stitches on the interior, while the secondary colour will be applied in the form of twin stripes on the bonnet and a panel on the rear. Interestingly, the rear panel gives the impression of an apparent pop-up mechanical spoiler (a feature derived from the Bugatti Veyron), but unfortunately, the Adder does not have this feature. The rims have a unique design, consisting of 20 spokes that alternate between wide, semi-curved spokes and thinner, straighter ones.
As befitting the car's real life counterpart, the Adder boasts exceptional engine power, so much that it remains among the best-performing cars in a straight line. However, the car is somewhat sluggish around corners, owing to its prominent understeer. Its poor handling is exacerbated by the absence of a spoiler upgrade. It can be difficult to utilize the Adder’s top speed due to its subpar acceleration, being outpaced by most supercars in that respect. Fortunately, the Adder’s AWD layout partially alleviates these shortcomings, helping to jolt the car forward from a standstill and provide additional stability at high speed.
The large chassis and overall shape gives it a strong and rigid design, which is something the player would want when crashing or colliding. The deformation rate is slow, though the wheels tend to lock up or give a positive camber when done so. The front of the car also has a tendency to "slip" or skitter off other cars it touches when at high speeds.
The Adder's statistical stock top speed is 115 mph / 186 km/h.
Fully-upgraded, the car tops out at just under 125 mph on flat roads. Although once the fastest supercar in a straight line, it has since strayed far from first position, beaten by over a dozen others ranging from the FMJ , Visione , and Tezeract up to the Banshee 900R , Deveste Eight , and 811 .
The Adder features two side-by-side engine covers derived from the 9F (albeit laid backwards), intended to emulate the W16 engine from the real-life counterpart. Said engine is coupled to a 6-speed gearbox and is laid out longitudinally in a mid-engine, all-wheel drive layout, giving the car some excellent take off and traction. The engine sound is shared with the 9F, being a high-revving sound with a muffled exhaust note. The website states that the Adder boasts an 8-liter engine, pushing 1100 bhp to the wheels, giving it what was originally stated to be a top speed of 250mph. However, the website as of an enhanced version patch states it can reach up to only 215 mph. In-game, the Adder cannot reach either of these speeds under normal circumstances.
Prior to the Lowriders update, Legendary Motorsport stated the car was powered by a 8 Liter 1100hp engine capable of pushing the car of up to 250 mph and with a 0-60 mph time of 3 seconds. After the Lowriders update, the car's acclaimed top speed was changed to 215 mph. With the website's refresh after the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, the website no longer states the car's top speed.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Adder spawn location in front of Sessanta Nove , Rockford Hills .
Adder spawn location
Adder spawn location.
The black and orange Adder parked at Portola Drive .
The white and blue Adder parked at Portola Drive.
The Adder on Legendary Motorsport .
The Adder as seen on the Legendary Motorsport website. Note the spoiler.
Event week screenshot.
Lucky Wheel reward.
Lucky Wheel reward, February 2024.
Grand Theft Auto V
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Pegassi Zentorno is a two-door hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the High Life Update .
The Zentorno is heavily based on the Lamborghini Sesto Elemento , evident in its unique silhouette, side profile, distinctive mirrors, hexagonal rear vents accompanied by dual roof vents, and the characteristic front fascia. Additionally, its design is significantly influenced by the Lamborghini Veneno , as reflected in its grille, sharper front end, hood vents, rear vents, roof vent design, diffuser, and the painted accents on the wheels and front diffuser. The "Racing Spoiler" tuning option draws inspiration from the Veneno's spoiler, albeit featuring double mounts and fins. The C-pillar vents appear to be derived from the Lamborghini Egoista . The hexagonal exhausts are inspired by the Lamborghini Aventador J , while the shape of the rear bumper is taken from the Aventador LP 700-4 . The "Hyper Exit Exhaust" option is also based on the LP 700-4. The tail lights seem to combine features from the Veneno, Aventador, and Lamborghini Huracán , while the rear design incorporates aspects from the Sesto Elemento, Veneno, Aventador, and Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Super Trofeo Asia . The rear might have also been influenced by the DMC LP988-4 "Edizione GT" body kit for the Aventador, which is based on the aesthetics of the Sesto Elemento and Veneno. The headlights are modelled after the 2011 Acura/Honda NSX Concept .
Certain default colour schemes of the car also echo the Sesto Elemento, as they resemble its signature carbon-fibre-and-red coating, although substituting the colour red with orange, potentially alluding to the Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Edizione Tecnica .
The Zentorno is designed as an exotic high-performance vehicle, with very aggressive styling cues and a low, sloped body for added aerodynamic effects. The front end is largely dominated by the numerous intakes, separated by carbon-fibre frames. The bonnet area features four small intakes on the centre and two triangle-shaped details over a carbon-fibre portion near the windscreen. The frontal area features two headlights located in black housings, as well as the manufacturer's emblem located between the lights.
The sides of the car denote its aerodynamic profile, featuring concave details above the skirts and inset portions on the doors, together with vertical intakes on the rear fenders and diagonal body lines. Like the Infernus , the Zentorno features scissor doors with rounded mirror shells near the cabin A-pillars. However, these doors do not rotate away from the vehicle body, giving it realistic mechanics. The greenhouse area features coloured front separations behind the A-pillars and carbon-fibre panels on the rear quarters, while the area behind the cabin has two roof intakes leading to the engine bay, two rows of six hexagonal vents on the centre, small vents on the sides and two more vents over the rear tail lamps, finished in carbon fibre.
The rear of the car is predominated by carbon-fibre elements, being the bumper, diffuser, and the separations on the rear vents. A set of red LED strips can be seen on the upper side, with the car's name embossed in chrome letterings between these lights and the two hexagonal exhaust tubes at the bottom. The underside of the car is mostly carbon-plated, with exposed front axle arms, gearbox/diff and rear axle.
Its interior and dial set is shared with the Vacca , itself being a derivative of the one from the Banshee with yellow dials instead of blue. The manufacturer emblem can be seen on the horn cap.
The Zentorno is prominently painted in a primary colour for the body, while the secondary colour is applied on the front bumper trim, the triangle-shaped details on the bonnet area, the lines seen on the vents and around the hexagonal vents on the engine bay, the rear bumper trim and the tyre details of the stock wheels. The car has 10-spoke rims with an angled detail on the ends and a blacked-out appearance.
Surprisingly, the Zentorno is very competitive with high-end supercars such as the RE-7B and Tempesta around a normal circuit due to its superb cornering speeds. It can also reach fairly high speeds, making it faster than the Entity XF , Turismo R , Infernus , and Cheetah . The engine in the Zentorno delivers incredibly smooth and alarmingly quick acceleration. In fact, the base stats of the car made it the fastest accelerating supercar in the game (possibly on par with the Voltic ). The car features non-adjustable suspension that is about equal to, if not lower than Competition level, and because it is so close to the ground, the car cannot climb stairs (both forwards and backwards) and can also flip very easily when colliding with sidewalks.
The car's handling is extremely responsive, as it can take corners at high speeds with relative ease due to the lowered suspension and the good weight distribution. But due to the car having such a sensitive handling, It can become a deficit more than a benefit for people using a keyboard as it will turn at 100% power. The high-output engine may also become difficult to control for inexperienced drivers. The vehicle has very minimal oversteer, but it can still spin due to its handling power, but does not always lose control too easily.
The Zentorno's grip can also become a big problem when driving on bumpy roads, if two or more wheels lift off the ground (even for a second), one (or more wheels) will still make such strong contact with the ground for the car to enter a spin. However, the four-wheel drive layout lowers the risk of this, and usually "fixes" itself back into driving forward, picking up speed on the way.
Although no physical engine model exists in-game, the website stated that the Zentorno is powered by a 6.8 liter V12 engine that produces 750HP, which is somewhat reflected by the number of hexagonal vents on the rear (similar to how the Sesto Elemento is powered by a V10 engine and features exactly ten hexagonal vents). It has a 6-speed gearbox and an all-wheel drive layout (30% front, 70% rear distribution). The engine sound is typically high-revving, shared with the Cheetah.
Pre-modified variants of the Zentorno can be seen parked or driving around Los Santos randomly. Business DLC Sports Modded 1 has a unique primary color not available in Los Santos Customs , Beeker's Garage or any other vehicle mod shop.
The Business DLC Sports Modded 1 Zentorno in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
The Business DLC Sports Modded 2 Zentorno in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
Business DLC Sports Modded 2 Zentorno spawning in Pillbox Hill .
Like the randomly spawning modified Zentornos, two sets of Zentornos may spawn outside Los Santos Customs, pre-modified. These again only spawn in single player. The vehicles appear in set color sets with the same modifications. They will not spawn with any of the default extra components. These variants are named "LS_CUSTOMS_MODDED_SP" and use the exact same modifications and colors as the Business DLC Sports Modded sets.
An NPC-modified Zentorno in the enhanced edition of GTA V . ( rear quarter view )
Pre-modified variants of the Zentorno can appear as a random Moving Target vehicle in the Freemode Event , Moving Target , as part of the Freemode Events Update . The first and third sets cannot be recreated in Los Santos Customs or any other mod shop as they have unique Worn secondary colors.
Vehicle's pearlescent and wheel colors are randomly picked from the car's regular traffic color sets.
Vehicle's pearlescent and wheel colors are randomly picked from the car's regular traffic color sets.
Zentorno variation 1 in Moving Target . ( Rear quarter view )
Zentorno variation 2 in Moving Target . ( Rear quarter view )
Zentorno variation 3 in Moving Target . ( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Zentorno on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 ( Rear quarter view. ) .
The Zentorno in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view. )
A custom Zentorno in the enhanced version of GTA V . Note the neon underglow and license plate.
Asymmetrical front body kit detail.
The Zentorno on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version of GTA V .
Prize Ride advertisement.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
The Zentorno as seen in a pre-release screenshot. Note the absence of the badge.
Promotional artwork of the Zentorno.
Zentorno poster seen in Vehicle Warehouses .
W1NN1NG Zentorno seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
0LDN3W5 Zentorno seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
H3R0 Zentorno seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
Rockstar Motorspot livery for the Zentorno featured in The Chop Shop update.
The Zentorno is part of three vehiclemodelsets , " LS_CUSTOMS_MODDED_SP ", " BUSINESS_DLC_SPORTS_MODDED_1 " and " BUSINESS_DLC_SPORTS_MODDED_2 ". The first allows heavily modified Zentornos, among many other modified cars to spawn outside Los Santos Customs, as well at other locations. The second two allow the Zentorno and other Business Update sports cars to spawn modified in specific locations, particularly around the city. They only spawn in GTA V .
The Zentorno's front asymmetry (highlighted in yellow)
The vehicle after the Lowriders: Custom Classics update. Note the correct symmetry.
The Zentorno's rear diffuser asymmetry (highlighted in red)
Comparison of the low-poly model (top) and high-poly model (bottom) of the rear portion of the vehicle. Note the asymmetric differences (highlighted in yellow).
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Pegassi Oppressor Mk II is a hover bike appearing in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the After Hours update, released on August 14th, 2018, during The Black Madonna Residency Week event.
The vehicle is essentially an upgraded version of the Oppressor , replacing the land/glider characteristics of the original with the ability to hover. It appears to take influences from the BMW R1200GS Adventure Hover Ride™ concept bike , particularly with the futuristic design and angled wings. The vehicle also takes inspiration from the hover bike from the movie Looper , given the motorcycle chassis mounted over a large turbine engine.
Compared to the regular version, the vehicle has wings that extend when in flight mode and prop stands to land, along with four vectoring nozzles on either side in a similar way to the Hydra , but they automatically tilt forward or backwards depending of the direction the vehicle is moving, or remain facing down when stationary. It also has an additional turbine below the front fairing intended for pitch movements and small thrusters on the side triangular panels intended for the turning characteristics, emitting a blue glowing effect similar to the rear thrusters of the Deluxo . The upper area of the bike is mostly identical in design and features to the regular version, with the exception of an extended rear fairing, where the same rocket booster is located.
The bike's primary color is applied to most of its bodywork, while the secondary color is applied in the form of dual stripes running along the front fairing, fuel tank, rear fairing and rear panels.
The vehicle is armed with two machine guns located within the front fairing, just beside the headlamp. It can also be modified with either two small gatling guns with explosive ammo or four missile launchers.
The Oppressor Mk II has similar characteristics to the Deluxo , given the permanent hovering capabilities.
In hover mode, the vehicle handles like a normal motorbike and has a maximum speed of 208.7 kph/129.7 mph, but can perform stationary turns and can practically travel over any terrain, although caution should be taken with steep inclines or obstacles such as walls, traffic lights or trees, as it has a tendency to tilt backwards to attempt climbing the obstacle, thus dismounting the player in the process. It can also travel over water and remain safe even on huge waves during stormy weather, but unlike the Deluxo, it only hovers on the water when the engine is on. Although safety measures prevent the bike from touching the water, it won't be enough if the player tilts the bike forward, thus sinking the vehicle in the water and destroying it in the process.
In flying mode, the bike's top speed is limited to 175 kph/108.7 mph, but the mode allows it to reach areas which most aircraft struggle to, on par with the Thruster . Similar to the Deluxo, switching to flying mode is done by pulling up the stick to unfold the wings and reaching about one meter/three feet height. The bike’s pitching angle is limited to 20 degrees. By pressing the handbrake button, the vehicle's wings will retract and rapidly decreases altitude, being a faster way to get down to the ground/sea level without having to move around and tilt downward. When halted in mid-air, the vehicle will begin to descend over time. It should be noted that the only way to exit the vehicle in mid-air is while it is moving, either forwards or backwards, which causes the character to dive off. If a player attempts to exit at a standstill, the vehicle will slowly descend to the ground before the character dismounts; once begun, the player cannot cancel this action.
The vehicle is powered by a turbine engine that is apparently connected to the parallel-twin engine seen on the regular version. It emits a rather quiet noise.
The bike is equipped with a rear-mounted rocket booster, which can be used as a brief speed boost on the ground or while airborne. The rocket propels the vehicle for a second and starts recharging for four seconds when not accelerating or two seconds upon braking the vehicle, similar to the KERS feature from the Lectro and the Vindicator . The rocket boost has little to no effect on top speed, but it helps significantly with gaining speed, as it alone is capable to boost the vehicle to 135 mph for a short time.
The vehicle can be fitted with countermeasures to improve its defensive capabilities against homing missiles, each one with their own attributes:
The Oppressor Mk II can only be modified at the specialized workshop inside a Terrorbyte .
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Oppressor Mk II on Warstock Cache & Carry .
An Oppressor Mk II with the Explosive MG upgrade.
An Oppressor Mk II' with the Homing Missiles upgrade.
Preview screenshot for The Black Madonna Residency Week , alongside the Terrorbyte .
Preview screenshot for The Black Madonna Residency Week featuring the Oppressor Mk II inside the Specialized Workshop of the Terrorbyte.
Preview screenshot for The Black Madonna Residency Week.
The Black Madonna Residency Week advertisement.
Freecrawler Week screenshot with the "Blue Tartan" livery.
The Menacer and the OppressorMk II with the Santo Capra Coins livery for Running Back (Remix) Week .
GTA Online Bonuses (March 2020 Part 1) screenshot.
GTA+ Promotional Images
GTA+ July 2022 event screenshot with the special "Blue & Yellow Camo" livery.
The Oppressor Mk II has been the subject of extensive criticism since its addition to Grand Theft Auto Online . The combination of its high mobility, homing missiles and ease of accessibility have led to frequent debate about its impact on freemode gameplay and player vs player encounters.
To address "balancing issues", Rockstar Games implemented a series of changes to the vehicle's performance. On December 11, 2018, as part of the Arena War update, an oversight that allowed the bike to travel at excessive speed was patched, circumventing a speedrunning strategy that was frequently abused in freemode activities. [ ref? ref? This fact is likely to be disputed and needs a source for confirmation. ] . On December 12, 2018, as part of The Diamond Casino Heist update, a 5-minute request cooldown was put in place, limiting the ability to respawn the bike instantly while in a Motorcycle Club .
Almost 3 years later, on July 26, 2022, as part of The Criminal Enterprises update, the accuracy of the bike's missiles were reduced, and its countermeasures reload cooldown was increased. 5 months later on December 13, 2022, as part of the Los Santos Drug Wars update, the bike's prices on Warstock Cache & Carry were significantly increased.
Despite the changes implemented, the bike still receives widespread criticism online, receiving frequent mentions in online forums, on social medias and in GTA Online videos and livestreams. [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
The bike's abilities have led to its association as a disruptive tool in freemode gameplay. Many players claim the bike is too easy to access, while others claim that its abilities are considerably overpowered in comparison to other weaponized vehicles in Grand Theft Auto Online , and with a lack of an anti-measure, results in a significant imbalance in gameplay. [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Hydra is a military VTOL attack jet featured in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Heists update. It is the first military jet available in the Grand Theft Auto series. It is manufactured by Mammoth in the HD Universe .
The Hydra is suggestively based on the British Aerospace Harrier II (formerly known as the Hawker Siddley Harrier), a well-known British fighter jet with Vertical Takeoff and Landing (VTOL) capabilities, with minor detailing from the F-16 Fighting Falcon , such as the cockpit and air intake. The Harrier's influence is further proven by the cheat code that is used to spawn the jet in the PC version: "Jumpjet", which is a nickname for Harrier jets.
The aircraft has a narrow nose with a glass canopy that swings to the right, and a large intake below, as well as the main wings with six pylons on each side and the tail boom/empennage with the corresponding stabilizers. The aircraft uses two main landing undercarriages on the fuselage and a smaller one on each wing. The aircraft is only seen in a dark gray color with roundels of the United States Air Force on its wings, as well as registration letters and numbers on the nose and vertical stabilizer.
The Hydra is equipped with unguided rockets and heat-seeking missiles. Unlike the real-life iteration, however, it lacks an autocannon pod.
The Hydra in Grand Theft Auto Online is based largely on the British Aerospace Harrier II, similar to its previous iteration; however, the nose, vertical fins, and horizontal stabilizers resemble those of the F-35 Lightning II . The B variant is utilized by the US Marines and is the STOVL (Short-take off and Vertical Landing) / VTOL (Vertical Takeoff and Landing) version. The Hydra's cockpit resembles the General Dynamics/Lockheed Martin F-16 Fighting Falcon, especially the integrated control panel below the HUD, which is directly taken from that of the F-16. The Hydra's air intakes are from the AV-8B, as well as the side air holes and the four rotatable exhaust nozzles. In fact, the entire VTOL system of the Hydra is still based on the AV-8B Harrier II, rather than the F-35B's Lift Fan System, two steering nozzles, and rotatable "Lobster Back" exhaust for its main engine.
The aircraft assumes a much bulkier construction compared to the GTA San Andreas iteration, having a triangular-shaped nose with an air data probe/sensor on the end, as well as a glass canopy that pivots from the front (rather than from the right like its previous iteration). The main section of the aircraft has large intakes beside the fuselage, four vectoring nozzles on either side, and lower hatches for the main landing undercarriage, while the wings hold the corresponding ailerons on each side, six weapon pylons below, and long gear struts that pivot to the rear when the landing gear is retracted. The rear/tail area has two large stabilators , two long vertical stabilizers and a single jet turbine. The aircraft bears a registration code on the tips of the vertical stabilizers and is utilized by the United States Navy .
The interior of the aircraft is very similar to that of the P-996 LAZER , being a compact cabin with a narrow instrument panel, green display screens, and a control stick on each side. In the enhanced version, it uses the same "Lazer" dials from the aforementioned fighter jet and several other aircraft.
The aircraft is only seen in a light gray color with a subtle digital camo livery. It also uses a set of industrial wheels also used on the Titan and the Savage .
Similar to the P-996 LAZER, the Hydra is equipped with dual cannons below the fuselage and just beside the front main landing gear, as well as six radar-guided missiles on both wings appearing to be modeled after the AIM-120 AMRAAM (which uses smaller rockets derived from the RPG , similar to the P-996 LAZER).
The Hydra is the most sophisticated aircraft in the game, boasting a variety of equipment. One of its more prominent abilities is its VTOL (Vertical Takeoff and Landing) capabilities, which allow it to hover, descend or ascend vertically like a helicopter, and travel horizontally like an airplane; these abilities are achieved by directing thrust from four jet outlets downwards or backward using specific directional controls (by pushing forward/backwards on console, or by holding down / or / on PC , by default. On the iOS version, it snaps forward automatically at a moderate speed). Due to its excellent engine and maneuverability, the Hydra is the fastest and most fail-deadly aircraft (and one of the fastest vehicles) in the game, and one of the easiest to fly when the player learns the basics of fixed-wing flight. It is able to travel from the southernmost point in Los Santos to the northernmost point of Las Venturas in roughly 60 seconds (1 in-game hour). However, similar aircraft, like the Rustler and the Stuntplane , can still be more agile. Flying the plane efficiently still requires increased concentration; one mistake can send it plummeting towards the ground.
The Hydra is generally the most preferred aircraft for its speed, agility, and weapons, which make it an excellent choice for nearly any purpose requiring an airplane. Its chief disadvantage comes not from the vehicle itself, but the game engine. High-speed flight can allow the plane to hit objects, such as trees, before they've become visible due to model/texture loading being slower than the plane itself (this process is also nicknamed 'pop-in'). Another drawback is that there is no passenger or co-pilot seat, restricting it to only carry one person, making it unsuitable for several-man transport.
Unlike the Hunter in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Vigilante side missions cannot be started nor performed using the Hydra.
The aircraft is powered by a single turbojet engine and produces the same loud sound from jet-powered aircraft such as the Shamal and the AT-400 .
The Hydra is well-known for being one of the best performing in-game vehicles when it comes to combat, being on par with the Hunter . The Hydra comes with the following:
40 / 131.2 (Weapon range)
Similar to the GTA San Andreas rendition, the Hydra is able to switch between vertical and horizontal flight by pressing right on the D-pad (holding left joystick on Enhanced and E&E versions) on consoles, or holding down G (F on Enhanced and E&E versions) on the keyboard on PC.
When in horizontal flying mode, the Hydra has the highest top speed in the game (in the Enhanced and E&E versions, it is beaten by the Rogue , Pyro , and the F-160 Raiju ), at 145 knots / 268 km/h while under 250 meters / 820 feet MSL, and 181.8 knots / 336.8 km/h while higher than 250 meters / 820 feet MSL. However, the Hydra is relatively heavy thus has slightly slower acceleration than the Lazer, and when performing a vertical climb, the Hydra will start to lose speed and eventually stall out, unlike the P-996 Lazer which will continue to gain altitude. The Hydra has acceptable maneuverability, being able to quickly pitch, yaw and roll in any direction; however, due to the Hydra's extra weight, it is one of the least maneuverable jets, only beating the V-65 Molotok in a tight circle.
When in VTOL mode, the Hydra is surprisingly less maneuverable than its previous rendition; it is easily controllable in this mode, but has difficulty pitching downwards to engage targets, and has trouble correcting its momentum. It has a tendency to continue moving in the direction it was traveling if switched into VTOL mode, and also takes a while to ascend and descend in the same mode. The VTOL capabilities make using the vehicle's weaponry much easier, but it is a double-edged sword; it is not as maneuverable as a helicopter and responds to inputs differently. It is difficult to slow down from flight mode into hover mode and the throttle must be constantly modulated, otherwise the engine will cut out if the Hydra is close to the ground. If slowed down to the point that the main engine shuts off, switching to VTOL mode and accelerating will not start the engine, preventing any thrust coming through the nozzles, and the plane will plummet to the ground. One should be careful when using the Hydra in VTOL mode to attack targets, since it also makes the Hydra much more vulnerable to direct fire and leaving very little chance of dodging rockets from the RPG and locked-on Homing Missiles from the Homing Launcher and most weaponized aircraft. Also, when switching to flight mode, the Hydra may lose a small amount of altitude before it takes flight, therefore it is not suitable to change to Jet mode mid-air while very close to the ground or near buildings. If the Hydra plummets to the ground with retracted landing gears, there is an opportunity to change to VTOL mode if the player reacts quickly before it results in an imminent crash. This problem is negated if the Hydra is flying forward while it transforms to flight mode. It also suffers from the Lazer's tendency to wobble in flight due to turbulence, as well as its unresponsive controls if the afterburner is not engaged.
The Hydra's VTOL capabilities make it able to land basically anywhere as long as there is enough space available for the aircraft to safely land. The pilot of a Hydra can also land and take off just like a normal plane if the controlling player wishes to do so, having greater stability to perform sharp turns on land compared to the Lazer. Care should be taken when landing in VTOL mode, as the aircraft may bounce slightly away from the ground, thus triggering the ejection mode if the player is not careful on the exit. With VTOL mode and the rudder imputs, one can basically spin the aircraft at any safe direction before take-off, in case the aircraft is facing a building or another obstacle.
Overall, the Hydra can be considered as a VTOL counterpart to the Lazer. Its finicky performance in VTOL mode is realistic; VTOL aircraft are not like helicopters and, while able to, are not designed to operate in hover mode, which is usually only for takeoff and landings. Despite being a little heavier, the VTOL features make the Hydra a very deadly aircraft with its weaponry (if players take the time to learn its unique quirks), which is partially balanced by not only its price, but also by the fact that the vehicle is not available outright to players in GTA Online . However, as of the Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit update ( enhanced version only), the Hydra can be purchased outright, albeit at an even greater price.
Again, the aircraft is powered by a single turbojet engine and is equipped with an afterburner/reheat . It also shares the sound with the Lazer.
The Hydra is as durable as the Lazer and not as every other airplane without armor upgrades, being able to take two homing missiles or Heavy Sniper Mk II explosive rounds, or three Railgun rounds before being destroyed. However, a direct explosive hit to the plane's rear will usually blast away some of the Hydra's control surfaces. While it is still possible to pilot the plane like this, the plane may lose the ability to maneuver along certain axes and the engine will usually have been damaged as well (indicated by the afterburner struggling to ignite or heavy smoke), and another hit to the plane will destroy the aircraft completely.
With the introducing of newer, more specialized aircraft since the release of the Smuggler's Run update, the Hydra's lack of countermeasures proves to be a significant risk, as ground vehicles with significantly more reliable, faster, longer-range or more accurate missile attachments (such as the Oppressor , Deluxo , or Chernobog ) can easily target a Hydra and take it down, putting the pilot in an extremely difficult position, given the accuracy of these missiles make them difficult to avoid, especially in open-space areas. Also, many aircraft introduced in the Smuggler's Run update also have a lead against the Hydra in both speed and maneuverability; even the Seabreeze is a surprisingly maneuverable plane, being better at turning a tighter circle than the Hydra, and the Pyro takes the lead with the fastest acceleration and superior maneuverability. Despite these disadvantages in agility, the Hydra more than makes up for it in sheer firepower. Most of the Smuggler's Run aircraft cannot withstand much fire from the Hydra's powerful cannon.
The Hydra does not have any flares or other types of counter-measures against locked-on missiles that are fired at the jet, forcing the pilot to manually evade the missile.
15 15 HitLimbs modifier ( 24 24 (multiplayer) ) 22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default
500 (direct) 75 (edge)
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
Upon being converted into a personal aircraft, the Hydra can be repainted with just a primary color for the entirety of the vehicle, excluding the vectoring nozzles and the intakes. The nose and wing armaments will only be slightly tinted. The digital camo livery will be also removed, causing it to have a more uniform color.
In flight, with its thrusters directed backwards.
Parked, with its landing gear down and its thrusters directed downwards.
Decals of the Hydra .
The Hydra in a promotional screenshot.
The Hydra on Warstock Cache & Carry .
Humane Raid - EMP Job Image, featuring the Hydra .
The thrusters of the Hydra , directed backwards.
Ditto, directed downwards.
Exterior detail - canopy.
Exterior detail - vertical stabilizer.
Side comparison with the P-996 LAZER .
Front comparison with the P-996 LAZER.
Rear view of the Hydra .
Event week screenshot.
Discount on the Hydra for Mr. Faber Work Week .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The aircraft was originally due to appear in Grand Theft Auto V . Text and audio data suggests the vehicle originally assumed the name "Vulkan", and had the ability to hover. [ 4 ]
The aircraft is seen in both the first and second trailers for Grand Theft Auto V . In the second trailer, it is seen firing two missiles at a Police Maverick shortly before banking. [ 5 ] The aircraft also appears on in-game TV , where it can be seen hovering in a Cunning Stunt Academy TV advertisement. It features "V-22" badges on the tail fin, further supporting the original name.
A Vulkan in the first trailer for Grand Theft Auto V .
A Vulkan in the second trailer for Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
A Vulkan firing two missiles during the second trailer.
A Vulkan in the Cunning Stunt Academy advertisement.
Ditto, note the badging.
The lettering on the rear fuselage.
The Hydra model kit box as seen in Zero's shop.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Rhino is a military tank appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Nagasaki Buzzard Attack Chopper (formerly named " Buzzard ") is a light attack helicopter featured in The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto V , Grand Theft Auto Online and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Buzzard Attack Chopper, piloted by Jason Duval , can be seen chasing an Airboat 09 through the Grassrivers in the second trailer (2:18). It features moderate but noticeable design updates compared to its appearance in Grand Theft Auto V and Online , including the addition of a side-mounted gun and a fully redesigned cockpit.
The Buzzard is evidently based on the AH-6 , an attack variant of the MH-6 Little Bird light observation helicopter, with the tail similar to the MH-6's predecessors, the OH-6 Cayuse and the MD 500C . It also features a forward-looking infrared pod (FLIR) under the cabin, similar to the real-life AH/MH-6M Little Bird variant .
The vehicle is armed with miniguns that resemble the M134 Miniguns and are fed by a large ammo box on the rear bay, as well as additionally featuring rocket pods, each one loaded with eight rockets that resemble Hydra 70 unguided rockets.
Compared to the Maverick or the Annihilator , the Buzzard is depicted with a rather compact fuselage and a bubble glass canopy, having a curved front face with a small circular light on top and a large FLIR camera/searchlight pod, as well as curved side doors for the occupants. Around the middle/rear section, the aircraft has open sides that expose the rear bay, two small stub wings and short skids with tall struts, as well as an elevated section on top that partially surrounds the main rotor shaft, four small fins beside it and a large circular exhaust on the rear end of the fuselage. The tail boom is relatively small in comparison to most helicopters, having the tail rotor on the left and a single horizontal stabilizer on the right. The vehicle bears the registration "17 340" on the front, the sides of the upper section and the upper vertical stabilizer.
The interior of the cockpit denotes its small appearance, fitted with a small flight instrument panel on the center and visible rudder pedals, while a tall wall separates the front section from the rear bay. Despite the open rear bay, the aircraft cannot carry passengers on it.
The Buzzard that Luis obtained for Yusuf Amir was a prototype display model stolen from an arms deal . It was later repainted from black to gold by Yusuf – this difference would be first recognized during the mission Not So Fast , where Luis uses it to land on the roof of the Libertonian. The LCPD will call it a "black/gold helicopter" or "funny-looking helicopter", depending on which version Luis uses – the black Buzzard acquired by a cheat code or the gold Buzzard from Yusuf at the end of the game. The vehicle is also considered "illegal" in Liberty City .
The helicopter is only seen in a single primary color, being either the default black color or the special gold color.
Returning in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the Buzzard Attack Chopper retains the same design and features. However, the small light on the front face can be toggled on/off like most vehicles, while the light on the FLIR camera/searchlight works when the engine is on. The rear bay is also able to hold two rear occupants, due to the repositioning of the ammo belts towards the sides of the rear bay box, the slight cut-out of the stub wings and the addition of two side steps. In the enhanced version, the flight instrument panel uses a dedicated "Flyer" dial set derived from the Maverick and the Police Maverick .
Buzzard Attack Choppers are now mass-produced and issued for law enforcement/military use. An unarmed civilian variant is also available. In addition, NPC pilots can operate the mounted camera/searchlight, which is unable to be rotated unlike the Police Maverick 's version.
Again, the aircraft is only available in a single primary color, which is set to black on naturally-generated examples, although other color options are also available.
The aircraft is still armed with miniguns and rocket launchers, both retaining the same model as the previous iteration.
Designed as a light exploration/attack helicopter, the Buzzard has an excellent maneuverability, able to turn quickly and move with a reasonable top speed (though not as fast as the Annihilator ). The Buzzard's weakness, however, is its bubble canopy and low bullet protection, which can prove dangerous to the pilot and passenger when faced with heavy weapons like the Advanced MG or the Automatic Shotgun with explosive rounds. Like all helicopters, one of the weak spots is the rear rotor, when destroyed, it will spin out of control.
True to its real-life inspirations, the Buzzard is powered by a single turboshaft engine located on the rear section, evidenced by the single rear exhaust seen below the tail boom. Said engine powers the 5-bladed rotor, delivering good engine output to ascend quickly. The rotor sound is rather unique, appearing to be a higher-pitched variation of the one from the Maverick , with a slightly faster pacing due to the five blades on the main rotor.
The Buzzard is equipped with a set of two weapons operated by the pilot:
200 / 656.1 (Weapon)
80 / 262.5 (Weapon)
The Buzzard handles similarly to how it did in TBoGT ; it is still a quick and maneuverable helicopter. Despite its small size, the Buzzard is still a very fast helicopter with a top speed of approximately 135 knots, but will lose altitude when going full speed. The relatively small profile makes it a versatile choice for landing in areas where other larger helicopters would struggle, and despite the short skids, it is quite stable to land on uneven areas and does not lose balance easily. The increased capacity also allows for quick transportation and additional defense from the rear passengers.
The Buzzard is powered by the same single turboshaft engine located on the rear section. However, the rotor sound has a much faster pace and a fairly moderate noise compared to its previous iteration.
The Buzzard's small frame and good maneuverability makes it easier to avoid enemy homing missiles compared to some of its larger cousins, such as the Savage , Annihilator , or Cargobob . However, only one hit from a Homing Launcher , RPG , or any standard explosive will destroy the aircraft. The helicopter can only withstand two to three explosive rounds from the Heavy Sniper Mk II before exploding. In addition, the Buzzard's large cockpit windows almost completely expose the pilot to enemy gunfire, and the helicopter itself cannot withstand very much damage before the engines begin to smoke. Just like all helicopters, the Buzzard's engines will begin to fail and give out entirely over the course of approximately two minutes and twenty seconds, assuming no further damage is taken.
Similar to the Police Maverick , NPC-operated Buzzards are vulnerable to large-caliber rounds being shot to the tail rotor, causing them to lose control and crash to the ground.
22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
Upon being converted into a personal aircraft, the Buzzard Attack Chopper can only be repainted with a primary color, which covers all of the aircraft's body. The markings cannot be removed, however.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Luis attacking Van Hardenburg's Yacht using a Buzzard in Sexy Time .
Yusuf Amir 's golden Buzzard . ( Rear quarter view )
A high angle view of the golden Buzzard .
A Buzzard Attack Chopper in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V .
Artwork of Buzzard Attack Chopper seen on GTA V 's box art.
A rocket fired from a Buzzard .
Another enhanced version promotional screenshot, featuring a Buzzard .
The Buzzard wreck at Kortz Center after " The Wrap Up ".
The Buzzard Attack Chopper on Warstock Cache & Carry .
A Buzzard attacking gunmen on the Los Santos Naval Port .
Buzzard Attack Chopper enemy air support in Cayo Perico during The Cayo Perico Heist .
HUD icon in Air Quota .
Event Week screenshot.
Event Week screenshot.
Buzzard Attack Chopper in a promotional advert ( March 2020 Event Week ).
A view of the Buzzard Attack Chopper 's cockpit in the second trailer .
In multiplayer, there are multiple locations where Buzzards can be found:
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Annis Elegy RH8 is a sports car featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Elegy RH8 is prominently based on the 2011 Nissan GT-R (R35) , seen in the greenhouse area, front quarter, rear bumper area, natural rear wing and wheels. The headlight shape is reminiscent of that on the Infiniti G37 Coupe . The front bumper is somewhat inspired by the Toyota FT-86 G Sports , while the rear end and C-pillar seem to be inspired by the 2009 Toyota FT-86 Concept .
The Elegy RH8 is designed as a two-door sports car with a sleek appearance, appearing to have a Carbon-fibre splitter at the bottom and inserts around the three front intakes, which span almost the whole width of the car. On the upper area, there is a small grille with the Annis badge centralized on the car and L-shaped headlamp housings, each one containing circular lamps with square-shaped turn signals. Both the grille and the headlamp housings have a plastic trim surrounding them, and the bonnet features a prominent elevation on the centre with slanted sections near the headlamps, which opens to reveal a triangular strut brace over the engine bay.
The sides of the car feature inset panellings around the doors, with slanted sections on the front fenders and leading to the rear fender vents, directing air flow to the rear brakes. There is a set of carbon-fibre side skirts located at the bottom, with concave formations below the doors. The greenhouse area makes use of plastic finishing around the windows, the A-pillars and the separation of the rear-quarter windows. A set of mirror wings can be seen mounted on the doors, along with "RH8" badges on the front fenders and an "ELEGY" badge on the rear window, just near the rood panel.
On the rear end, there is a slanted wall with a lip on the upper side, with "ELEGY" embossed on the centre of the wall and a small "Annis" badge above. There is a permanent red strip around the upper area, with a thinner strip on the centre and twin red circular lamps on either side. The bumper consists of a body-coloured section holding the license plate and a carbon-fibre diffuser with a rectangular reverse light on the centre and two housings for the dual exhaust tubes. The car may spawn with or without a spoiler.
The car uses a dedicated "Elegy" interior, which is largely identical to the one used in the Banshee . However, the dials have a red tint. The passenger side of the dashboard also has the corresponding badge displaying the car's name, while the steering wheel bears the manufacturer badge.
The primary colour of the car is applied to the bodywork, while the secondary colour is applied on the bonnet, roof, mirrors and stitching. Its rim design is similar to the "Endo v.1" sport rims available in Los Santos Customs , although the lack of bolt details around the centre makes it more identical to the tuner variation.
The Elegy RH8 accelerates relatively well from a standstill and reaches a good top speed. It also has very little wheel spin, thanks to the all wheel drive system. The car has good weight distribution and also has good balance when cornering, including high speed cornering. Cornering feels responsive most of the time, with good stability afforded to the driver, even at high speeds, rain, or snow.
The Elegy RH8 is one of the best handling cars (especially in the "Sports" class), due to its great traction, even weight distribution, and all-wheel drive configuration, but its Achilles heel is its braking, which even compared to some of the SUVs is very poor. However, due to its exceptional handling, braking is not always needed when taking corners, although needing to come to a dead stop quickly, unless the player uses the handbrake in tandem with the normal brakes, may become problematic in this car. It will also stall if one attempts to make a sharp 180 using the handbrake at high speeds - that is, if the player end up still going backwards after being turned around, if one continues to try and accelerate forwards, one will stall out for a split second.
The Elegy RH8 features a what is stated to be a 3-liter engine capable of pushing 560HP. The engine model appears to be a single cam V8, coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a front engine, all wheel drive layout. The engine sound is generally low revving and rather loud, comparable to the one used in the Futo but with a lower pitch.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
An Elegy RH8 with no spoiler. ( Rear quarter view )
Official screenshot of the Elegy RH8.
The bumper sticker on the Elegy RH8.
Elegy RH8 with twin turbo.
The Elegy RH8 on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version of GTA V .
The Elegy RH8 on Benny's Original Motor Works .
An Elegy RH8 on the graphic of the Annis Japan Tee in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Garage banner with the Elegy RH8, with Japanese text saying "monster".
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Karin Kuruma (Armored) is a vehicle featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Heists update.
The vehicle is essentially a Kuruma fitted with bulletproof armor panels on the roof and the cabin and protective frames over the lights, as well as bullet resistant windows that rarely shatter under the fire of small guns.
The car received minor cosmetic changes on the body, where the badges and the roof brake lights were removed, and the original chrome details were replaced by blacked-out ones. The rear bumper has big-bore exhausts and a spoiler with bolted-on details on the sides, while the interior features a roll cage.
Colour distribution is similar to the normal Kuruma, having a primary colour for the body and the interior stitching. However, the secondary colour affects the armor plating, the protective frames on the lights, the details on the front fenders and the roll cage. The wheel design is shared with the normal Kuruma, albeit painted in black.
The Kuruma has a modeled twin-cam straight six engine, placed longitudinally in a front engine, all wheel drive layout (a rather unique distribution of 1/3 of the engine power to the front wheels and the rest to the rear wheels). According to Southern San Andreas Super Autos , the car has a six-speed gearbox, a top speed of 147mph and weighs 2,866lbs. The Kuruma features a turbo dump-valve sound effect by default, although the player can add another turbo for a significantly higher acceleration.
The performance is slightly different from the normal Kuruma. While it has slightly less traction (though still very good due to the normal Kuruma's high traction), slightly weaker brakes, and slightly lower acceleration and top speed, it makes up for these shortcomings in its durability against collisions and gunshots; against most firearms, it is about three times as durable as the normal Kuruma. It is equipped with bullet resistant windows that will rarely shatter if shot at, though bullet holes will appear. This can protect the players inside the vehicle, as a bullet shot through the narrow panels will not damage the player's health to a great extent, though players need to be mindful that their vision is significantly obstructed in first-person view . They cannot throw explosive weapons and the driver cannot shoot their gun behind the car as they can only fire forwards, both being significant disadvantages. Likewise, the rear passengers cannot shoot forward. The only thing the Armored Kuruma is truly vulnerable to is explosions (which instantly destroy the vehicle) and high-caliber weapons (the Insurgent Pick-Up 's mounted gun takes it out in 16 seconds aimed at its engine), even with its armor maxed out, though its armored panels can resist some [ vague vague How many? ] explosive rounds from a Heavy Sniper Mk II . Therefore, players will have to be careful around explosions when using this vehicle. In addition, compared to the normal Kuruma, its engine produces much more torque, allowing it to ram through traffic harder and more easily than most vehicles of similar size, but at the cost of speed. Finally, the Armored Kuruma is immune to crash deformation, which is an advantage in that the wheels will never lock from any crash, but also a disadvantage in that the player(s) inside may not know how damaged the Kuruma is until it starts burning.
Because of the armor, the vehicle is noticeably heavier than the normal Kuruma (an extra 1,700 kilograms of mass is added to the 1,500 kilogram stock), and that predictably means it has more understeer. It is also slightly harder to roll on uneven terrain, although this is not very noticeable, as the normal Kuruma is quite good off-road. Furthermore, it is harder to cause a spin out due to the Armored variant having better handling than its normal counterpart. In high speed turns, the Armored Kuruma is less likely than the stock to lift itself onto two wheels and potentially flip over. Driving off-road is one of the best of its class, and with very strong traction, it fares well climbing hills.
Pre-modified variants of the Kuruma (Armored) can appear as a random target vehicle in the Moving Target Freemode Event , as part of the Freemode Events Update . The first set cannot be recreated in Los Santos Customs or any other mod shop as it has a unique primary colour.
Vehicle's pearlescent and wheel colors are randomly picked from the car's regular traffic color sets.
Vehicle's pearlescent and wheel colors are randomly picked from the car's regular traffic color sets.
Kuruma (Armored) variation 1 in Moving Target . ( Rear quarter view )
Kuruma (Armored) variation 2 in Moving Target. ( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Official screenshot of the Kuruma (Armored) .
Rear view as seen in the trailer.
The Kuruma (Armored) used as the getaway vehicle for The Fleeca Job in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Kuruma (Armored) in GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The Kuruma (Armored) on Southern San Andreas Super Autos in the enhanced version of GTA Online .
Free Armored Kuruma advertisement.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Sultan is a four-door sports sedan with several variants and models appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Grotti Turismo R is a hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Business Update .
The design of the Turismo R is heavily inspired by LaFerrari , as seen in its side profile and greenhouse area, as well as incorporating additional elements taken from the Ferrari Project F150 "Manta" and "Tensostruttura" design studies that served as a base for the LaFerrari. The front fascia of the car seem to be inspired by either the Ferrari Xezri or the Trion Nemesis concept cars, while the headlights seem to be borrowed from the 2013–2015 Spania GTA Spano . The side vents, rear indicators, and shape of the rear seems to bear some resemblance to the McLaren P1 . The rear also somewhat resembles the Honda NSX Veilside , especially with the "GT Wing" spoiler options applied. The tail lights are laid out similarly to those on the Faralli & Mazzanti Evantra . The engine bay is reused from the Cheetah and is configured and modeled after the Koenigsegg CCX .
The "Aero Split Wing" spoiler, "White Accents," and "Red Accents" livery options appear to be taken from the Ferrari FXX-K .
The Turismo R is made up of many sharp curves and edges, giving it an aggressive appearance. The front end of the car is rather curved and features a carbon-fibre insert at the bottom centre, as well as a CFRP separation on the middle section that separates the meshed intakes. The upper area is rather bulky on the outer sides and has two black vertical housings, each one containing dual circular lamps. The bonnet area assumes a prominent wedge shape and has two V-shaped intakes around the middle section, with a small distance between each other. The Grotti emblem can be seen on the edge of the bonnet area.
On the sides, the car makes use of large concave sections running through the doors and going towards the rear intakes, featuring carbon-fibre skirts at the bottom and black details on the upper borders, along with silver "Grotti" lettering near the front wheels. There are also large curved panels covering the rear intakes, bearing "Turismo R" badges on them. The pillars and the roof of the greenhouse area are finished in carbon fibre, with the former holding rear-view mirror wings around the middle, and the latter having an impressed area on the centre.
The rear of the car consist of a slanted section behind the cabin that is mounted over a concave shape, where it features a triangle-shaped window with four small vents on either side, where the engine bay is located. There are two elevated sections between the slanted back and the rear bulky fenders, housing large intakes intended to direct air flow to the engine bay and rear exit vents. The rear end of the car houses two additional curved vents, a central section with the Grotti logo and dual circular tail lamps on the upper edges, along with a "Turismo R" badge on the passenger side. This whole section act as a rear clam for the engine bay, which hinges from the rear and opens to reveal the engine, the carbon-fibre separation of the cabin and black frames around. The lower area of the rear consist of a carbon-fibre section with two L-shaped light strips on the outer edges, the twin rear diffusers with three blades each and the central section with the license plate and the twin circular exhaust tubes. The underside of the car is mostly carbon plated, leaving the gearbox/diff exposed.
The interior of the car is shared with the Banshee , using the same dial set, layout and features. The Grotti emblem can be seen in the centre of the steering wheel.
The primary colour of the Turismo R is applied on the bodywork, while the secondary colour is applied on the portions around the cabin, the mirror wings, the side panels of the rear intakes and the interior stitching. The car uses a set of wheels similar to the "Sinthetic Z" sports rims seen in Los Santos Customs , but the circular detail on the centre is slightly larger. It also has low-profile tyres.
The Turismo R falls just short of being one of the fastest Super Cars in the game. Acceleration is excellent and there is a nice amount of wheel spin. Top speed is also very good, being as fast as the Zentorno. Because the car contains an electric motor, there is no loss of power during gear shifts. Therefore, the engine has a reputation for being very smooth and immediate. The engine is one of the most technologically advanced engines in the game. However, the Turismo R can be damaged very quickly often resulting in the hood coming off after a few collisions, especially at a high rate of speed. Unlike most quickly damaged cars, the wheels do not lock very often.
Just like the Cheetah , if the suspension is lowered to the maximum through Los Santos Customs , the Turismo R is able to drive right under high-suspension vehicles, such as the Sandking XL , at high speed and sometimes some low-suspension vehicles if driving head-on against them. The only downside to this, however, is that it has the tendency to hit curbs much more easily, damaging the car and even flipping it over. The same is true of the Zentorno , even with default suspension.
The engine model appears to be a single-overhead camshaft V8, evidently by the exhaust manifolds seen when the rear hood is removed, while the in-game website claimed the engine is a V12. The car features intercoolers located directly after the side-intakes, suggesting the car is turbocharged. The exact same engine model is found in the Cheetah. It shares its engine sound with the Feltzer and Carbonizzare .
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Turismo R on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version of GTA V .
An NPC modified Turismo R that spawned in Rockford Hills .
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Promotional Artwork featuring the Turismo R .
IN4H4ZE Turismo R seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
MILKYW4Y Turismo R seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
TPD4WG Turismo R seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
[ vague vague information on patch number ]
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Pegassi is an Italian luxury automotive manufacturer in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Pegassi appears to be an amalgamation of various high-end Italian vehicle manufacturers, mainly the supercar manufacturers Lamborghini and Pagani , as well as the motorcycle manufacturer Ducati . Coincidentally, in 2012 , four years after Pegassi's introduction in Grand Theft Auto IV , Lamborghini acquired Ducati and has maintained direct ownership of the brand ever since.
The name "Pegassi" likely originates from Pegasus , a winged horse in Greek mythology. The brand's logo, which displays a horseshoe between a pair of wings, highlights this inspiration.
A Bati 801 in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Bati 801RR in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Esskey in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Faggio in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Faggio Mod in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Faggio Sport in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An FCR 1000 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An FCR 1000 Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Ignus in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Infernus in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Infernus Classic in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Monroe in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Oppressor in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Oppressor Mk II in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Osiris in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Pizza Boy in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Reaper in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Ruffian in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Speeder in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Tempesta in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Tezeract in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Toreador in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Torero in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Torero XO in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Toros in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An unnamed Pegassi sports car in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Vacca in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Vortex in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Weaponized Ignus in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Zentorno in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Zorrusso in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Badge avatar on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Alternative text logo.
A Pegassi branded shirt seen in Premium Deluxe Motorsport .
Grotti is an Italian vehicle manufacturer appearing two different universes of the Grand Theft Auto series:
Pfister is a German vehicle manufacturer appearing two different universes of the Grand Theft Auto series:
Albany is an American luxury automotive manufacturer appearing in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Albany produces a wide array of luxury cars and light trucks, and also manufactures the White Liner travel trailer. In Grand Theft Auto V and Online , the company is shown to operate what appears to be a derelict dealership in Davis , Los Santos .
The company utilizes a variety of logos and badges. Two common logos are widely used: a trapezoid-shaped "A" with a crown inside, and a crowned rectangular emblem with a diagonal split. Although the latter appears more stylistically modern than the former, both seem to be used interchangeably with little consistency. The text logos, however, follow a clearer distinction between eras, with newer cars typically using a modern sans-serif wordmark and older models using a cursive script. In the second trailer for Grand Theft Auto VI , a new Albany logo can be seen as a sticker on a tool cabinet inside Brian's Boat Works & Marina , depicting a blue A shape with a white crown inside (2:31).
Albany appears to be based on Cadillac , although some of its vehicles take inspiration from those manufactured by Lincoln and Buick .
An Alpha in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Brigham in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Buccaneer in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Buccaneer in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Buccaneer Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A second generation Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Cavalcade FXT in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Cavalcade XL in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Emperor in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Esperanto in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Fränken Stange in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Hermes in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Lurcher in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Manana in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Manana Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Police Roadcruiser in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Police Stinger in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
A Presidente in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Primo in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Primo Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Roman's Taxi in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Romero in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Roosevelt in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Roosevelt Valor in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Stretch in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Virgo in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A V-STR in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Washington in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A White Liner in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
Mosley Auto Service , Carson Avenue and Davis Avenue , Davis .
Modern name badge.
Alternative modern name badge with left-right borders.
Alternative modern name badge with colored borders.
Former name badge.
Logo badge.
Alternative logo with deep embossing.
Albany badge avatar image on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Alternative logo badge with no border embossing.
Alternative colored logo badge.
Alternative logo.
Name as seen on a Vehicle Warehouse poster.
Worn logo as seen on a Vehicle Warehouse poster. This logo also appears on the Albany Dealership in South Los Santos .
Albany poster seen in Vehicle Warehouses.
Another Albany poster seen in Vehicle Warehouses.
The graphic on the Albany Nostalgia Tee , featuring a Hermes .
The graphic on the Albany USA Tee .
The graphic on the Albany Dealership Tee .
The Albany text logo on the advertisement for the V-STR .
Animated Albany logo from a V-STR advert.
Garage banner with Albany branding, similar to the graphic on the Albany Nostalgia Tee .
A vintage Albany -authorized dealer service and repair sign in Auto Shops with the Route 68 style.
An Albany sticker seen on a tool cabinet in Brian's Marina in the second trailer .
Benefactor is a German luxury automotive manufacturer appearing in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Benefactor mainly offers a selection of luxury automobiles, with certain exceptions. The term " benefactor " refers to a person who provides aid to an individual or group.
According to the badging on the engine of the Feltzer in Grand Theft Auto IV , Benefactor may have been established in the German town of Lenningen . [ 1 ]
In Grand Theft Auto V , there is a Benefactor-Gallivanter Dealership located in Los Santos , which features a rear garage that can be purchased by Michael De Santa .
Benefactor is primarily based on Mercedes-Benz , with its diamond-shaped logo slightly resembling Volkswagen 's stylized "VW" logo. The engine badging on the Feltzer in Grand Theft Auto IV mentioning the German town of Lenningen [ 1 ] is a reference to the nearby city of Stuttgart , where Mercedes-Benz was founded and is headquartered.
A BR8 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Apocalypse Bruiser in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Future Shock Bruiser in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Nightmare Bruiser in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dubsta in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Dubsta 6x6 in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Feltzer in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Feltzer in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Glendale in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Glendale Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Krieger in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An LM87 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Panto in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A first generation Schafter in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A second generation Schafter in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Schafter V12 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Schafter V12 (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Schafter LWB in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Schafter LWB (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Schlagen GT in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Schwartzer in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Serrano in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Streiter in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Stretch E in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
A Surano in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Stirling GT in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An SM722 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Terrorbyte in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Turreted Limo in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An unnamed Benefactor saloon in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Vorschlaghammer in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An XLS in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An XLS (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Benefactor-Gallivanter Dealership , West Vinewood , Los Santos .
Benefactor badge.
Badge avatar on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Benefactor badge with deep embossing, which first appeared on the XLS .
Vintage Benefactor sign in Auto Shops with the Nostalgia Trip interior style.
Advertising
Billboard for the first generation Schafter .
Billboard for the Surano .
Poster depicting the Feltzer .
Benefactor Serrano booklet at Premium Deluxe Motorsport .
Benefactor booklet at Premium Deluxe Motorsport.
Perfect Cut I , a painting by Kröger at The Diamond Casino & Resort .
Perfect Cut II , a painting by Kröger at The Diamond Casino & Resort.
The Benefactor Lenningen badge texture found on the Feltzer .
Karin (Japanese: カリン ) [ 1 ] is a Japanese automotive manufacturer appearing in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Karin is a car manufacturer producing various types of vehicles such as sedans, coupés, and even pickup trucks.
Karin itself is a Japanese word for red sandalwood .
The Karin brand is pronounced "KAIR-en" in the advertisement for the Dilettante in Grand Theft Auto IV , whilst it is pronounced "kuh-REEN" in another advertisement for the Dilettante on Fame or Shame in Grand Theft Auto V . The latter pronunciation might be a reference to the Toyota Carina lineup.
Karin appears to be based on Toyota , with secondary inspiration seemingly drawn from Subaru , in which Toyota holds a sizeable stake, as reflected in several models such as the Boor and the Woodlander . The company's logo appears to be inspired by the Lexus logo, mirroring how Emperor , the primary in-game equivalent of Lexus, has a logo resembling Toyota's.
The Karin Racing Auto Performance (KRAP) division appears to be a rendition of Toyota Racing Development (TRD), with its initials, KRAP, likely intended as a play on the word "crap", similar to how TRD resembles "turd", while its livery designs mirror that of the former Subaru World Rally Team .
A 190z in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Asterope in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Asterope GZ in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A BeeJay XL in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Boor in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Calico GTF in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dilettante in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Everon in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Everon RS in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Futo in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Futo GTX in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Hotring Everon in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Intruder in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Kuruma in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Kuruma (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Previon in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Rebel in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Rusty Rebel in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An S95 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Sultan in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Sultan Classic in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Sultan RS in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Sultan RS Classic in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Technical in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Technical Aqua in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Technical Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Vivanite in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Woodlander in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Badge avatar on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Karin badge.
Red Karin badge seen on the 190z .
Karin name badge.
Alternative Karin logo used on the Futo in Grand Theft Auto IV and Grand Theft Auto V .
Print logo.
Animated Karin logo.
Garage banner with Karin badges.
A Sultan RS with the Karin Performance livery. ( Rear quarter view )
A Sultan Classic with the Karin Performance livery. ( Rear quarter view )
A Sultan RS Classic with the Karin Performance livery. ( Rear quarter view )
A Sultan RS Classic with the Karin Performance, Pink livery. ( Rear quarter view )
An S95 with the Racer 86 livery. ( Rear quarter view )
A Woodlander with the Karin Performance livery. ( Rear quarter view )
A Woodlander with the Karin Performance White livery. ( Rear quarter view )
Vapid Motor Company , commonly referred to as simply Vapid , is an American automotive manufacturer appearing in the HD Universe of the Grand Theft Auto series.
Vapid is one of the largest in-game car manufacturers. In parody of Ford's famous blue oval badge, Vapid's logo is a red oval badge, with a similar font.
In Grand Theft Auto V , during the mission The Bus Assassination , Franklin Clinton is hired by Lester Crest to kill Isaac Penny , an investor planning to buy a controlling interest in the company. The company's status on the BAWSAQ swiftly drops following his death.
Vapid is heavily based on the Ford Motor Company . Exceptions include the Huntley Sport , which resembles a Land Rover vehicle, the Bobcat and Speedo , which resemble Chevrolet vehicles, the Contender , which resembles a Toyota vehicle, the Benson which resembles an International truck.
There is a Vapid of Los Santos dealership in Downtown Los Santos . A garage is located in the building and can be bought by Trevor Philips . Mors Mutual Insurance use the dealership as a depot in Grand Theft Auto Online . Vapid also operated an aircraft division, and formerly owned an aircraft hangar in Grapeseed , which can also be bought by Trevor Philips.
An Aleutian in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Benson in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Benson (Cluckin' Bell) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Blade in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Bobcat in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Bobcat XL in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Bullet in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Caracara in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Caracara 4x4 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Caracara Pursuit in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Chino in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Chino Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Clique in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Clique Wagon in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Clown Van in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Contender in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A second generation Contender in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Creado in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Desert Raid in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Apocalypse Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Future Shock Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Nightmare Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator FX in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator FX Interceptor in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator GTT in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator GTX in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator ASP in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Dominator GT in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Ellie in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Flash GT in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Firebolt ASP in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A FMJ in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An FMJ MK V in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Fortune in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A GB200 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Guardian in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Hellenbach in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A Hotknife in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Huntley Sport in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Hustler in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Apocalypse Imperator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Future Shock Imperator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Nightmare Imperator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Liberator in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Lost Slamvan in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Minivan in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Minivan Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A NOOSE Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Peyote in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Peyote Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Peyote Gasser in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Pißwasser Dominator in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Police Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Police Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Police Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Radius in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Ratel in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Resolution X in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A Retinue in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Retinue Mk II in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Riata in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Sadler in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Sandking SWB in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Sandking XL in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Scrap Truck in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Sheriff Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Slamvan in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An Apocalypse Slamvan in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Future Shock Slamvan in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Nightmare Slamvan in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Slamvan Custom in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Slamtruck in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Speedo in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Speedo Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Stallion in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A Stanier in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Stanier LE Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Steed in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Taxi in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Taxi in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Tow Truck in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Yankee-based Tow Truck in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
The Trophy Truck in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Unmarked Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
An unnamed Vapid cargo van in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid donked-out car in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid ghost police car in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid passenger van in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid police car in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid police SUV in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid sedan in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid SUV in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A second generation unnamed Vapid SUV in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid taxi in Grand Theft Auto VI .
An unnamed Vapid unmarked SUV in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A Uranus in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Uranus LozSpeed in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Utility Truck in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A Winky in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Yankee in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Invetero Coquette is a sports car featured in Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
In Grand Theft Auto IV , the Coquette largely resembles the Chevrolet Corvette C5 . The front fascia is closely reminiscent of the facelifted 2002-2005 Honda/Acura NSX , which shares the headlamp cluster design. The side vents are finished with two silver accent streaks, similarly to the Mercedes-Benz Vision SLR .
The unique white and red paintjob that can be found resembles the color scheme of the Corvette used by Templeton Peck, aka Faceman, in The A-Team .
In Grand Theft Auto V and Online , the Coquette takes on a modern design closely resembling the Chevrolet Corvette C7 . Elements of the fifth generation Chevrolet Camaro can be across the car, mainly in the vent on the hood, side vents, side profile as well as the tail lights, which are mix of the 2014 facelifted Camaro and the Jaguar F-Type . The C-pillars are somewhat similar to the Nissan GT-R .
The Coquette sports a typical sports car body shape, characterized by several iconic design details. The rear end stands out the most, with its overlapping taillight design mirroring the overlapping twin exhausts, and of course the large Coquette badging between the taillights. Other notable design details include its rounded front end, chrome-trimmed side vents, and its large rear greenhouse area.
The Coquette largely features typical functional doors and hood. However, there is no rear trunk or hatch available to be opened, leaving the rear end sealed.
The interior of the Coquette takes on a typical GTA IV sports car interior design with two-tone leather upholstery. Embroidered Coquette badges can be found on the headrests. The car features a carpeted parcel shelf with integrated speakers.
Coquettes usually spawn in a single color, with the exception of a white and red one, where the red stripe is the secondary color. The car has five-split-spoke alloy rims wrapped by low-profile sport tires. The brakes are the same four very large, cross-drilled disc rotors found on the Infernus , Comet , and Turismo . Coquettes frequently have alarms.
The Coquette in GTA V and Online serves as an evolved version of the GTA IV Coquette, sharing a similar profile to it but with updated, modern changes. Some design details carry over, such as its identical front intake layout and the centered Coquette badging on the rear end. However most of the car's detailing features sharp and modern angles, as opposed to the rounded, smooth styling of its GTA IV counterpart. Notable design details include its striking headlights, central hood intake, fin-like side vents, and taillight strips.
Similar to the GTA IV iteration, the Coquette features no openable trunk or hatch, but is otherwise typical in its door and hood functionality. The Coquette can be purchased with or without a roof, and both styles are considered separate models when requesting from the Garage Mechanic . However, it is possible to remove or add a roof at Los Santos Customs . The "Extreme Aero Front Bumper" option available in Los Santos Customs does add additional rally-style lamps to the car, replacing a section of the front end where the front badging is located. However, these lights are non-functional.
The Coquette uses its namesake interior style, carried over from and kept largely identical to its GTA IV iteration. In the original version of GTA V , the car also featured the Coquette badge embroidery headrest design found on its GTA IV iteration, but this was removed in the all future editions of the game. The Coquette also uses "Feroci" dial set. The interior features two randomly spawning extras that cannot be added in Los Santos Customs:
The primary color of the car is applied to the body and the stitching on the seats, while the secondary color is applied to part of the hood and on the roof. It uses a set of wheels identical to the "S Racer" sport wheels, wrapped in low-profile tires.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
The Coquette is a typical American sports car, in that it has a front-engine, rear wheel drive layout, a twin-cam Inline-4 under the hood and a 5-speed gearbox.
The Coquette is once again powered by a double overhead camshaft inline-4, coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive configuration. This offers a large amount of powers to the rear wheels.
Engine close-up in GTA IV .
A Coquette with the white-and-red paint job.
Shot of a beta GTA IV Coquette , with no decals on its rear.
A Coquette with no roof. ( Rear quarter view )
Artwork featuring a Coquette in GTA Online .
extra_ten interior extra.
extra_11 interior extra.
The Coquette on Legendary Motorsport .
The Coquette (Topless) on Legendary Motorsport.
The Stevie's Car Thefts Coquette in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Benefactor Krieger is a two-door concept hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of The Diamond Casino & Resort update, released on September 12, 2019 , during the Krieger Week event.
The Krieger is primarily based on the Mercedes-AMG One , a limited production hybrid sports car. The headlights are inspired by the ones found on the second generation Honda NSX , while the vent on the bonnet seems to be taken from the Rimac Nevera . The rear bears a resemblance to the Audi R8 LMS GT3 . The exhaust seems to be inspired by the one found on the Porsche 918 .
The Krieger is distinguished by its sleek, aerodynamic profile and predominated by CFRP details around it, where the front features a carbon-fibre splitter on the lower side, while the grille intake area features carbon-fibre details and separations around and the corresponding Benefactor emblem on the centre. On the upper area, the car has a set of five LED main lamps, two inner LED turn signals and lower high-beam light strips on either side, while the bonnet area features an impressed area for the central intake, with a sectioned duct in front.
The sides of the car are denoted by the exit ducts on the front quarters and the inset formations on the carbon-fibre skirts, intended to direct airflow to the rear brakes. The doors have two long mirror supports slightly below the door windows and square-shaped holders on the ends, all of them finished in carbon fibre. The greenhouse area has plastic finishing on the window trims and the separations between the door windows and the rear-quarter windows. The roof is mostly occupied by a long intake leading to the engine bay. The area behind the cabin is predominated by a carbon-fibre panel, with two gray sections holding circular exhaust tip. A set of carbon-fibre fins can be also seen over the rear fenders.
The rear end features a central panel bearing the Benefactor emblem, while the outer sides have a set of red light strips and small square-shaped lamps. The middle section is predominated by a set of meshed exit vent, with the central one partially covered by the license plate and the outer ones surrounded by plastic details, also having red vertical light strips. The lower area is mostly occupied by the carbon-fibre diffuser. The entire underside is carbon plated, with elevated portions on the front and the axle sections.
The interior of the car is shared with the FMJ , though it uses a set of carbon-fibre paddle shifters, in a similar manner to the Tempesta and the Toros . A Benefactor emblem can be seen on the horn cap.
The car's primary colour is applied on the bodywork, while the secondary colour is applied on the interior stitching and the circular details on the exhaust tips. A trim colour is applied on the details found on the steering wheel, horn cap and radio console. It uses a set of wheels that are identical to the "Dash VIP" rims available in Los Santos Customs , also able to support a dedicated colour (though only possible in examples generated in Content Creator ).
The Krieger can be considered as a great all-around supercar. Not only does it have good top speed and handling, but it also has excellent acceleration and traction, allowing to move quickly after slowing down. The all wheel drive layout also gives good capabilities on roads and off-road environments, but obstacles may be a problem for its stability. Its steering capabilities are generally favorable to take curves and sharp turns, although braking is still recommended for the latter, as it may suffer slight understeer at high speeds. Because of the acceleration and drivetrain, the Krieger is capable of climbing steep hills with ease, having little to no traction loss.
The Krieger has one (the eleventh) Advanced Flag enabled. [ 1 ] The purpose of this flag is unknown, but it appears to have little impact on performance.
The Krieger has a mid-rear engine coupled to a 7-speed gearbox in an AWD layout (20% front, 80% rear). Although the exhausts suggest a V-shaped engine, its exact configuration is unknown, as it has no in-game model. Its engine sound is similar to supercars like the Zentorno , together with a high pitched sound, possibly a variation of the X80 Proto engine sound.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Krieger on Legendary Motorsport .
Alternative badge used in an advert.
Advertisement for Krieger Week .
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Discount on the Krieger for Halloween 2025 (Week 4) .
Discount on the Krieger for Halloween 2025 (Week 5) .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Progen Emerus is a two-door hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of The Diamond Casino & Resort update, released on August 15, 2019 , during the Emerus Week event.
The design of the Emerus is almost identical to the 2019 McLaren Senna , primarily the general shaping of the rear fenders and the large air intakes. It also possesses similar LED light strips placed under the headlights. The car also resembles the Senna GTR by the inclusion of multiple carbon elements, such as the carbon strip present on the bonnet from stock. The front of the Emerus is also reminiscent of the Ferrari FXX-K as both have thin slit-like headlights and a parallelogram shape front intake. The rear of the car seems to be inspired by the McLaren Speedtail , while the wing is taken from McLaren P1 GTR .
The Emerus is distinguished by its aggressive styling and aerodynamic profile, where the front end features a carbon-fibre splitter, a large central intake and two smaller ones besides it. A set of circular headlamps and LED strips can be found on the outer edges, along with an intake on the bonnet area that is finished in black and the manufacturer emblem.
On the sides, the car employs black panels on the front fender area and a set of body-coloured fins in the middle section, mounted over a wide formation that leads towards a rear fender vent. The skirts have a concave shape, with an open front end and a curved rear end. On the cabin area, the roof and pillars are entirely finished in black, along with a small roof scoop. The doors contain fitted panes inside them as well, and will also match with the currently-applied window tint.
The rear end is largely dominated by the rear-mounted spoiler and the tail light strips on it, along with silver lettering between the spoiler supports that displays the manufacturer name. The lower side is mostly composed of square-shaped formations that separate the circular exhaust tubes from the rest of the carbon-fibre rear, together with a plate holder on the centre. The engine bay area features a V8 engine similar to that of the Jester , with a set of vents in black finish. Its underside is mostly plated in sectioned black panels, with the central one finished in carbon-fibre, but leaving the rear axle exposed.
The interior of the car reuses the same textures and dials from the FMJ , with the only difference being the paddle shifts behind the steering wheel and the corresponding manufacturer badge on the horn cap.
The primary colour of the vehicle is applied on the bodywork and the fins on the stock spoiler, while a trim colour is available for the interior stitching. The secondary colour does not seem to be applied on the car, unless a secondary-coloured modification is installed. The rims are identical to the "S Racer" sport rims available in Los Santos Customs , although only those generated examples from the Content Creator , appearing in a mission or given as a Lucky Wheel reward may have a black colour rather than the default alloy.
The Emerus performs similarly to the T20 , having a high acceleration and top speed. Handling is rather difficult to get used to, as it is very floaty over uneven roads and corners, alongside the low suspension. This can be used as an advantage, however, as its traction is good and can take rather sharp turns.
The Emerus has one (the eleventh) Advanced Flag enabled. [ 1 ] The purpose of this flag is unknown, but it appears to have little impact on performance.
The Emerus sports a V8 engine in a rear-mid mounted position powering the rear wheels through a seven-speed gearbox. The engine sound is an edited version of the Cheetah and Vacca engine sounds.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
An Emerus with no spoiler. ( Rear quarter view )
Advertisement.
Official screenshot.
The Emerus on Legendary Motorsport .
Alternative badge used in an advert.
Event week screenshot.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Luxury Autos advertisement featuring the Emerus .
The Spoiler-less Emerus on the Lucky Wheel podium ( as won and delivered ).
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Pegassi Tezeract is an electric hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series update, released on March 27th, 2018, during the Ellie and Tezeract Week event. [ 1 ]
The Tezeract is strongly based on the Lamborghini Terzo Millennio , with some styling cues from the SRT Tomahawk , seen especially at the front fascia. The rear fascia design is similar to that of the Lamborghini Aventador SV LP 750-4 Roadster , visible in the engine cover, the painted part of the diffuser, and the tail light shape, but with a tail light layout similar to that of the Lamborghini Huracán .
The Tezeract is distinguished by its sleek design and rather unusual features, where the front end features a trapezium-shaped intake on the centre, followed by two vertical intakes on the outer edges. Its headlights are housed into horizontal fins that jut out of the bulky fenders. Through the front windscreen, three adjustable shock absorbers and springs for the frontal suspension can be seen, similar to the X80 Proto . A Pegassi emblem can be seen on the front.
The sides feature sectioned skirts and a dual set of carbon-fibre fins near the rear vents, along with small diagonal vents just between the cabin and the rear wheels. On the greenhouse area, the car has triangular front-quarter windows and carbon-fibre plates on the rear quarters, as well as gull-wing doors with carbon-fibre separations between the front-quarter windows and the door windows. The roof features an inset section passing through the whole panel, between the gull-wing doors. The area behind the cabin is mostly covered by a carbon-fibre plate, with glass panes exposing the engine bay, the Pegassi badges and a rounded end that extends a bit further from the rear overhang.
The rear end of the car features a set of tail lights somewhat similar to the headlights, followed by carbon-fibre frames separating the rear meshed vents and the license plate on the centre, placed over the central exit vent. The lower area is occupied by dual diffusers, each one having four blades, with the innermost ones angled towards the centre. The underside of the car is fully carbon-plated.
The car has a racing interior shared with the X80 Proto and Visione . In replacement of the revolutions on the tachometer, this vehicle instead features an kW dial, reused from the Raiden . A Pegassi emblem can be seen on the centre.
The primary colour of the car is applied on the bodywork and the shock springs found under the windscreen, while the secondary colour is applied on the details on the rear-quarter sections of the cabin, the details of the engine bay/battery cells in the rear section, the upper part of the rear diffuser, the inner part of the stock rims, and the interior stitching. A trim colour is also available for the interior dashboard, door panels, and seats. The rims consist of 10 dual spokes overlapping with each other around the centre, creating smaller triangular patterns. These rims are placed over a glowing, turbine-like detail on the outer surrounding, which has multiple black lines. The rims themselves can also support a dedicated colour, although only naturally-generated examples from Content Creator may have one.
The stock rims appear to glow in the dark, along with an optional modification for the shock springs. The glowing effect depends of the secondary colour's brightness, meaning the effect is more intense with brighter colours, such as Lime Green or Ultra Blue.
The Tezeract is different from recent electric vehicles in that its initial acceleration is slower similar to the internal combustion vehicles and it slowly speeds up over time; where it ends up is an impressive top speed that rivals the top supercars and is noticeably higher than the other electric vehicles. It is also surprisingly good at ramming other vehicles, despite the lightweight design and lack of torque.
The Tezeract is also the first electric vehicle to have a different engine sound, having a much lower-pitched pulse in comparison to the other electric cars in the game. Despite being an electric vehicle, the Tezeract is considered to contain fuel in the handling files [ 2 ] , however the vehicle's only appearance being in GTA Online means that the vehicle cannot run out of fuel, however it technically can in GTA V .
One of the reasons this vehicle has such an incredibly high top speed is due to it featuring a very high DownforceModifier value of 170.0 [ 3 ] , giving the vehicle extra downforce. While this isn't as high as the Tyrants or Entity XXRs , what allows this vehicle to reach a higher top speed than these vehicles is its very low DragCoeff value of just 2.0 [ 4 ] , comparatively lower than the Entity XXR's DragCoeff value of 8.3000, meaning the vehicle produces much less drag aided by its sleek, light-weight, aerodynamic and low-profile design. The Tezeract is one of ten vehicles added in the Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series update to include an EngineResistance handling data subset, with an engine resistance value of 0.02 [ 5 ] . This appears to make little to no statistical or visual difference to its performance, however.
The Tezeract's statistical stock top speed is 126 mph / 202.8 km/h. Like several other electric vehicles, EMS upgrades in Los Santos Customs have no influence on the vehicle's top speed, remaining the same at all 4 levels of EMS engine upgrades. This top speed is the highest top speed any vehicle has, being higher than a fully modified Banshee 900R or unmodified Pariah , and higher than any other supercar in the game, however the vehicle's initial acceleration to reach this speed makes it difficult to reach this speed in a short space of time.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Alternative badge used in an advert.
Official screenshot of the Tezeract .
Advert for the Tezeract .
The Tezeract 's wheels glowing at night.
The Tezeract on Legendary Motorsport .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Truffade Nero is a hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Import/Export update, released on December 20th, 2016, during the Festive Surprise 2016 event.
The Nero is mostly based on the Bugatti Chiron , particularly the headlights, side curvatures starting from the bottom of the vehicle to the A-pillars, the small frame on the rear section, and the mechanical spoiler. The rear lights bear a slight resemblance to those found on the Laraki Epitome . The design of the stock exhausts, diffuser, side skirts, side profile, and side trim shape seems to be inspired by that found on the 2017 Ford GT . The headlight shape might be inspired by the one found on either the second-generation Honda NSX or the Acura Precision Concept .
The Nero, being a modernized version of the Adder , shares some of the styling cues from the aforementioned car, having a similar bulky profile and characteristic features. The front shares the grille and intake positioning from the Adder, but twin separations are seen over the intakes. The headlamp housings assume a similar positioning and shape from the Adder's, but use a set of square lamps with small light strips below. Chrome details can be seen on the intake separations, lower centre and grille surrounding, as well as a manufacturer emblem placed over the grille. The bonnet area is similar to the one on the Adder, and features a carbon-fibre panel in front of the windscreen.
The sides of the car assume a similar pattern to the Adder, featuring a curvature passing from the lower side and going up to the roof area. However, there is an angular line where the side vents are located, also finished in chrome. Carbon-fibre skirts are seen at the bottom, while rear-view mirror shells with chrome strips are seen on the cabin area, as well as black rear-quarter panels. A separation can be found at the rear like the Adder, but does not extend further down, as it passes directly above the engine. The Nero, like the T20 , features an active spoiler.
The rear of the car features dual circular exhausts and a manufacturer emblem on the central panel, as well as carbon-fibre rear vents on the outer edges, surrounded by red light strips. The lower area is dominated by triangle-shaped vents on the edges, a trapezium-shaped vent on the centre and a black six-element diffuser, with a small reverse light centered on it. Its underside also uses a CFRP plate covering the entirety of the vehicle, exposing the section around the rear axle.
Its interior is very modernized, featuring a dashboard with two main analog dials and a digital display, two AC units on the center and two more at either side of the dashboard, as well as a Meinmacht radio display. The steering wheel features four buttons and two paddle shifts behind it, as well as the Truffade logo on the horn cap. The gear stick is very stylized and the seats have a sleek appearance, appearing to be some kind of race seats.
The car's main body, upper side and rear panel are painted in a primary colour, while the front bumper, part of the cabin, sides and rear are painted in a secondary colour. A trim colour is also available for its interior, mainly the panels, stitching and horn cap. Although not accessible, part of the engine covers are assigned with the "dial" colour, which is set to black in purchased examples. A set of seven-spoke rims with a manufacturer emblem on the black, bolted-on centre can be seen, wrapped in low-profile tyres. The rims can be also painted, although only those generated in the Content Creator may have a colour.
The Nero's performance is a significant improvement from the Adder , the previous Truffade hypercar, in that acceleration is very similar. The vehicle becomes heavier, however, but it helps on keeping its stability, as well as being rather tough to push, being an ideal choice for stunt races.
Although the engine is unclear to identify, it seems to emulate the Chiron's W16 engine . However, unlike the Adder's one, which is basically composed of two V8 covers, it uses its own texture, closely resembling the aforementioned engine and with the Truffade's logo embossed on each cam cover. Said engine is coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a mid engine, all wheel drive (20% front, 80% rear) layout. Its engine sound is identical to the one from the Adder, albeit slightly louder.
A Nero Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Official Nero advertisement.
The active spoiler in action.
The active spoiler while braking.
The Nero on Benny's Original Motor Works .
The Nero incorrectly placed in the cinematic preview of the Nero Custom on Social Club.
Event week screenshot.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Prize Ride advertisement.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Pegassi Osiris is a two-door hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 update.
The Osiris is heavily based on the Pagani Huayra , while its front end resembles the LaFerrari . The rear lights and main spoiler design take influences from the Pagani Huayra, with distinctive rear curves and a centrally positioned exhaust system built in.
The Osiris features a distinctively curved profile and aerodynamic design, where the front end has a dual extender at the bottom and three vertical separations above the upper extender, resulting in two large intakes around the centre and two smaller ones on the edges. On the upper area, the car has "frog-eye" headlights located in black housings on the edges, while the hood/bonnet area has a similar approach to the Cheetah , having a "V" shape raised formation. A silver Pegassi logo is located in the lower-front of the hood/bonnet area.
The sides of the car denote its aerodynamic profile, featuring exit vents on the front sections of the vehicle, curved impressions over the doors and carbon-fibre mirror shells and frames, while the rear sections feature intakes on the skirts, intended to vent the rear brakes. The cabin area denotes its rather disproportional layout, wherein the cockpit is further towards the front than the back, leaving room for the large engine in the mid position. Like the Stirling GT , it features Gull-wing doors , and exposes part of the carbon-fibre finish of the inner portions of the car, where the doors rest.
On the rear section, the car has additional intakes on top of the rear sides, intended to vent the engine bay. The upper area has a V-necked shape with an additional window glass, which is separated from the cabin rear window by a black frame and follows a similar layout to the Turismo R , albeit shorter. The rear end mostly consist of a carbon-fibre section with meshed exit vents around the centre, dual circular tail lamps with smaller units within them and a central brake lamp at the end of the V-necked formation, along with a silver Pegassi logo on the central vent and the Pegassi name below the right-side rear vent. The lower area is predominated by the carbon-fibre, six-element diffuser that is the same width as the upper vents, housing the license plate and the dual circular exhausts on the centre. This rear section also acts as a clamp for the engine, which hinges from the rear and opens to reveal the engine bay, the black protective frames around and the carbon-fibre finish on the inner areas of the car and the clamp. The underside of the car is also carbon plated, leaving part of the gearbox/diff exposed.
The interior of the car is shared with the Vacca , itself being a derivative of the one used in the Banshee . The same silver Pegassi logo can be seen on the horn cap.
The primary colour of the Osiris is applied on most of the bodywork, while the secondary one is applied on the front extenders and outer intake separations, the skirts, the cabin area, the V-necked section of the rear and the rear quarters. The overstitches of the seats, steering wheel and dashboard match with the wheel colour. It uses a set of five-spoke dual rims with a black five-point centre, wrapped in low-profile tyres.
The Osiris is impressive for a car of its class. The initial acceleration is slightly better than the Zentorno , thanks to the increased traction. This traction, along with its AWD layout, makes the car very smooth at taking turns, and rarely requires a drift to take a sharp corner. The Osiris is also very impressive off-road, and it is able to compete with other off-road vehicles uphill given its AWD and high torque output. With off-road tires, it is very formidable. Its top speed is also slightly superior to the Zentorno, although a few supercars are still one-up it in top speed terms.
The Osiris (along with the Zentorno) does not have suspension upgrades available at Los Santos Customs . Despite this, the Osiris remains very stable due to its low profile and width. The specifications shown on Legendary Motorsport are also very similar to the real life specifications of the Pagani Huayra. Braking is noticeably better than other cars in the Super class.
The car is stated to be powered by a 6-liter V12 capable of pushing 750hp, yet the in-game model depicts a single-cam V8 engine similar to the Cheetah and the Turismo R , complete with intercoolers located directly after the side-intakes (suggesting the car is turbocharged). It has a 6-speed gearbox and an all-wheel-drive layout (30% front, 70% rear torque distribution). The Osiris' engine noise is shared with the Alpha 's.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Osiris front badge illuminated when the lights are turned on.
The Osiris on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Alternate badge used in an advertisement.
Event week screenshot.
Prize Ride advertisement.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Progen T20 is a two-door hypercar featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 update.
Overall, the T20's main body design is almost identical to the McLaren P1 , including the curvature of the hood as well as the rear lights, guards, fascia and spoiler; however the headlamps and front bumper are more reminiscent of the McLaren 12C , and the arrangement and positioning are also similar to that of the TS600, whereas the design itself is close to that found on the Falcon F7 . The rear is mostly similar to the P1, but the rear exhaust and the rear diffuser are similar to the Ferrari 488 GTB . The shape of the side vents is similar to the one found on the LaFerrari . The implementation of butterfly doors for the T20 is similar to the real P1's butterfly doors.
The T20 is depicted as a modern hypercar with a sleek and aggressive styling, where the lower bumper area is predominated by the carbon-fibre splitter and H-shaped separation, which spans about two-thirds of the car's width and conforms the central grilles and outer intakes of the car, while the front quarters appear to have slightly impressed areas that curve up to the front arches. The upper area of the car consist of black, upswept housings on the edges, each one having a modern strip spanning the lower and outer sides, five vertical LED-like lamps on the inner sections, a circular lamp with chrome details around it and a triangle-shaped turn signal, along with an impressed area on the bonnet that is about as wide as the central front intakes and becomes wider up to the windscreen base, together with a small intake on the front area. A silver "PROGEN" logo can be seen on the centre of the bonnet, ahead of the impressed area.
The sides of the car denote its aerodynamic profile, featuring concave shapes on the doors that go slightly upwards to the rear intakes, open vents on the front arches with small vertical fins attached to the lower sides of the car, and small side skirts that are slightly away of the car and have small fins on either end, with the rear ones being slightly longer. The car appears to make use of butterfly doors, based on the fact the doors appear to rotate about the A pillar upon opening. However, they also appear to rotate along the vertical and horizontal track of the vehicle, and also rotating away from the vehicle itself, giving it a mix-match of scissor and butterfly door mechanics (somewhat similar to the Infernus and in contrast with newer vehicles such as the Tyrus and the GP1 ). The doors also have rear-view mirror shells and supports finished in carbon-fibre.
On the greenhouse area, the car makes use of black trim around the windows, rear-quarter panels finished in carbon-fibre and a carbon roof panel. Behind the cabin area, an aluminum cover with four curved vents surrounds the engine, to conduct heat, which would normally be a potential threat with an engine so close to the cover. A glass cover is placed directly above the engine's manifolds, surrounded by carbon-fibre textures. When opened, the car reveals more carbon-fibre texturing on the inner areas and six vents on the sides, with silver badging on the cabin separation that display the names of the manufacturer and the car. The outer areas of the rear section have three small upper vents intended to let air to flow through the rear brakes, while the rearmost area features a functional mechanical spoiler, which automatically raises at approximately 40 mph and has different modes for driving, braking, and idling.
The rear end of the car mainly consist of a carbon-fibre section with dual exit vents on the sides and the license plate on the centre, as well as curved tail lamps consisting of red strips and small turn/reverse lamps within the same units. On the lower area, the car has additional exit vents with circular exhaust tips on the inner sides, a large carbon-fibre diffuser with six blades and what appears to be an LED F1-style brake light on the centre, but is non-functional. The entire underside of the car is carbon plated, leaving the gearbox/diff exposed.
The interior of the car is derived from the Comet , sharing the blue dials, aircon units with carbon-fibre details and radio set. However, it bears the corresponding Progen logo on the horn cap. A rear window provides visibility to the engine bay.
The primary colour of the T20 is applied on most of the bodywork and the overstitches of the seats, while the secondary colour is applied on the lower sections of the front quarters, the concave sections of the sides and the side skirts. The car uses a set of five-spoke dual rims with a pentagon-shaped centre, wrapped in low-profile tyres.
The T20 has impressive acceleration, and a very good top speed. The car's nippy handling helps it smoothly transition from lane to lane on highways, but poses as a threat in busy traffic, since the handling can be unresponsive from time to time. The car's spoiler will raise when it is traveling at approximately 40 mph, and tilt on its axis to improve downforce over the rear axle and improve aerodynamic flow. Under braking, the spoiler will tilt forwards and down, increasing the surface area hit by airflow, thus acting as an air brake and slowing the car down quicker. The AWD layout also helps the car pick-up speed after stopping, in almost an instant.
The T20's engine appears to be a powerful, high revolution V8, similar to the real-life McLaren P1, and features intercoolers located directly after the side-intakes, suggesting the car is turbocharged. The exact same engine model is found in cars such as the Cheetah the Turismo R and the Osiris . However, the exhausts of this model are not extended as far since this car's rear clam is not hinged. The car emits a high-revving and smooth engine sound, which is unique in comparison to other cars with similar engine model.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Active spoiler under braking.
The steering wheel texture on PS3/Xbox360 version.
The T20 on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
A promotional screenshot for vehicle's release in the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 DLC.
Another promotional screenshot.
Another promotional screenshot.
CAR4M3L T20 seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
T0PSP33D T20 seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
D3VIL T20 seen in Vehicle Cargo missions.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Överflöd Entity XF is a two-door hypercar in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Entity XF's design appears to be heavily influenced by the styling of the Koenigsegg CCX for the front area, sides and greenhouse, while the engine cover, C-pillar, and roof are adopted from the Porsche Carrera GT . The tail lamp shape is similar to that of the Koenigsegg Agera , with the inner design being almost identical to the one found on the Lamborghini Reventón . The rear bumper as well as the exhausts might have been inspired by the Covini C6W . The front bumper and headlight layout feature some resemblance to those from the Noble M600 ; however, the headlight shape seems to be closer to the Koenigsegg CCR .
The Entity XF's front end features fairly simple styling. The front bumper is elevated for the regions on either side of the central area, featuring a small CFRP splitter at its base and three inset front ducts, the central one spanning two-thirds of the car's width. Like its inspiration, the car features large ducts on the sides of the front bumper. Around the upper area, the headlight units have edges parallel to a number of the car's body lines and feature four clear, circular lamps, with CFRP details around them. The car's bonnet features two levels of impression, the first creating a central area that runs from the base of the windscreen to the bottom of the front bumper. The second level of impression is contoured to the base of the windscreen and the side boundaries of the central region. A small manufacturer emblem is seen on the front of the bonnet/hood.
The sides are very bold in terms of styling. The wheelbase features a CFRP lip at its base. The sides of the car are dominated by the presence of a wedge-shaped impression that allows airflow to the main engine air ducts. Behind the impression, the body features a CF body accent bearing silver lettering displaying the car's name. The body then curves until a flat, horizontal section of the body is reached, upon which aerodynamic wing mirrors are mounted at the front of the doors. The main section of the car's greenhouse is unique; it features a bold C-shaped arrangement for its windscreen, side windows and roof. Behind the C-shaped section's seats are two large bulges that sit in an impressed area of the rear, with grated sections over the engine bay and a carbon-fibre area with a small glass pane on the centre. Said rear glass pane also leaves an open duct, and the rearmost area bears the manufacturer emblem.
The rear of the car is mostly dominated by meshed vents placed on various separations and housings for the tail lamps, with CFRP elements on the separations and the housings, with the upper central one partially covered by the license plate. The tail lamps consist of red arrow-shaped lights and amber/while light strips below. The lower side comes standard with two large exhausts, which can be modified into a three exhaust triangular arrangement (one above and two below) on each side, giving six exhausts in total. Smaller vents can be seen between the exhausts.
The car's interior is the same "Super GT" one from cars like the 9F and Rapid GT , sharing the same details on the dashboard and the dial set. A small manufacturer logo can be seen on the horn cap, as well as a silver "ENTITY" badge on the passenger side of the dashboard.
The Entity XF comes in a single colour, which also applies to the interior stitching. The car uses a set of "Blade" high-end rims that are also available at Los Santos Customs .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Entity XF is able to reach very high speeds, much faster than many other super cars, only having a slightly slower top speed than the Adder . It is capable of burning excess fuel from its exhaust, similar to cars like the Infernus , Buffalo , F620 , Banshee and other cars like the Sultan when modified. It has relatively high acceleration for its class. It also has very high traction due to its all wheel drive system and excellent weight distribution.
The Entity XF is powered by a V8 engine, which is supported by the website claiming it is a 4.5 liter engine delivering 800hp. The engine is coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a rear-mid engine, all wheel drive (20% front and 80% rear distribution) layout. This car emits a high-revving sound and also happens to be supercharged by default. When accelerating, the supercharger can faintly be heard whining.
Prior to the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, the website claimed that the car can reach over 200 mph and takes 3.5 seconds to accelerate from 0 to 60 mph. However, the in-game speedometer shows that the car reaches a maximum speed of 193 mph and takes 5.6 seconds to accelerate from 0 to 60 mph.
An Entity XF in a Grand Theft Auto V trailer.
An Entity XF in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
The Entity XF on the Legendary Motorsport website.
The Lucky Wheel advert for the Entity XF .
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Alternative Entity XF badge from advert.
Event week screenshot.
Prize Ride advertisement.
Three heavily modified variants of the Entity XF may appear in Vehicle Cargo source missions. Each variant has a unique license plate number, colour combination and different set of bodywork modifications.
The IML4TE Entity XF seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The 0V3RFL0D Entity XF seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The W1DEB0Y Entity XF seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
IML4TE Entity XF thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos .
OV3RFL0D Entity XF thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos.
W1DEB0Y Entity XF thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Karin Sultan RS is a rally sports car featured in Grand Theft Auto IV and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the January 2016 Update .
The Sultan RS itself is based on the first generation Lexus IS (also known as the Toyota Altezza), with a few minor influences drawn from a range of second generation Subaru Imprezas (notably the Impreza 2.5RS). Although neither the Lexus IS nor second generation Subaru Impreza received a two-door coupé configuration, its influence remains obvious in the Sultan RS. The front and the overall shape of the car closely resembles that of a 2001 Lexus IS with a body kit and side exhaust system. The massive rear spoiler is usually a stock feature on the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution and Subaru Impreza WRX STI models. The rear of the car is highly reminiscent of the Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution V , including said spoiler.
The Sultan RS is a high-performance two-door coupé variant of the Sultan . The letters RS stand for Rally Sport , which usually designates that the car is a highly-tuned, rally-sports version of the stock model. The car comes with a carbon-fibre bonnet, roll cage, side exit large-bore exhaust, front-mounted intercooler, rear diffuser, racing wheels, and low-profile tyres. Some variants also have a carbon fibre boot lid, bonnet scoop, and metallic paint. By default, it has an exposed intercooler manufactured by Endo .
The is usually set to spawn with a primary colour on the body, with the side stripes painted by the secondary colour, and the roof, boot and spoiler in a tertiary colour, usually resulting in a single-tone variation with stripes or a two-tone variation with stripes, with the exception of a single colour set that gives it a full-black colour with no stripes. Its wheels always have a black colour.
The vehicle is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
The Sultan RS returns in the enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the January 2016 Update , as an optional modification for the Sultan in Benny's Original Motor Works . It holds the same design as in Grand Theft Auto IV , albeit with some cosmetic changes (notably the bumpers and the grille) and a few omissions, which can be fitted in Benny's Original Motor Works.
Its colour distribution seemed to be changed over the GTA IV iteration. The primary one is set to the bodywork and interior stitching, while the secondary one is applied on the bonnet, roof and boot. A trim colour is also present for part of the door panels and seats, along with a dial colour. The stock wheels retained the same rim design as before, which are identical to the "Gruppe Z" tuner rims available at Los Santos Customs .
The vehicle has access to a variety of tuning modifications, as well as unique liveries and vinyls, which also allows the player to recreate the GTA IV iteration.
As of the Los Santos Tuners update, the timing belt and cam pulleys of the "Vernier Pulleys" options are fully-animated, and rotate accordingly when idle or revving up the engine.
The Sultan RS' top speed is one of the highest due to the mighty power of its turbocharged engine. The car also accelerates like no other car in the game. As shown on the rocker cover badging and the model marque on the boot, it has a 3.5-litre engine according to the badges, with the model of a turbocharged DOHC straight-4 engine. The badges state that the car is twin turbocharged, however the in-game model only features one turbo.
The Sultan RS utilizes an all-wheel drive system (30% front, 70% rear torque distribution balance, according to files), to which the extraordinary off-the-line acceleration owes itself. The Sultan RS has a much lower ground clearance than the Sultan , which aids the superb cornering ability on the road. The car drives very well on asphalt, although a bit slippery and at times hard to control at high speeds. It is also great on dirt and sand, as should be expected for a car drawing inspiration from rally cars designed for such conditions. The car, as with most vehicles, features an anti-lock braking system, however the Sultan RS is one the select few that does tend to lock-up on occasions, particularly under constant brake pressure, meaning the player should avoid holding the brakes to ensure efficient braking times and to retain steering control.
Like the Infernus , Banshee , Buffalo , F620 and Bullet GT , the exhaust system of the Sultan RS is prone to letting unburnt fuel explode in flames from the sidepipe during throttle liftoff after high revving. The RS is also equipped with a dump (blowoff) valve on the turbo which causes a whipping/hissing sound when the throttle is released.
The Sultan RS improves upon the original with vastly superior acceleration and a slightly higher top speed, while retaining the all-wheel drive system (25% front, 75% rear torque distribution balance, according to files). Braking power is significantly improved as well, enough so it is on par with other Supers. It handles very similarly to the standard counterpart, being grippy and engaging - yet unlike the normal version, it's also easier to spin out. Off-road, the Sultan RS performs excellently, with next to no speed or handling loss while driving off-road. In fact, due to its lightweight construction and powerful all-wheel-drive system, the Sultan RS is highly adept at climbing steep slopes, and can even summit Mount Chiliad with ease. Crash deformation is poor, however, given the lighter build.
Unlike its GTA IV counterpart, the engine is modeled as a twin-cam inline-6, lacking the turbocharger by default (though it can be fitted in Los Santos Customs ). It emits a unique, aggressive engine noise, similar to the tune used in GTA IV . It produces a large amount of torque sent through a 6-speed transmission to all four wheels. Just like in GTA IV , the dump valve sound is present, but to a lesser extent until upgraded. The exhaust arrangement is the same as in GTA IV by default, being single side-exit, but now in a 6-1 (6 to 1) exhaust manifold organisation rather than a 4-1. Its extreme valve timing causes a large amount of back firing, and when upgraded further it will produce a large amount of dump-valve sound with an increased rate of back firing.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The spawn location for the Sultan RS in GTA IV . ( Map )
Interior view of the Sultan RS .
A Sultan RS' s engine bay in GTA IV ; its rocker-cover reading "Karin Twin Turbo 3.5".
A heavily modified Sultan RS on a Cut & Shut magazine.
Official screenshot, featuring a Sultan RS with a Princess Robot Bubblegum livery.
Possible combinations of modifications that can be given to the Sultan RS . ( rear quarter view )
Modified example of the Sultan RS on Benny's Original Motor Works .
The Sultan RS on the Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Sultan RS on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Sultan RS in the Cinematic preview on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
In The Ballad of Gay Tony , the Sultan RS is a frequently used car to transport/protect drugs in the Drug Wars . Many of these have a unique paint-job, which may include two-tone roofs and boot/trunk lids.
A front and side view of an example of the combinations that can be found in Drug Wars . ( Rear quarter view )
In Grand Theft Auto V , a regular Sultan can be modified to resemble the Sultan RS, however the modifications are purely cosmetic.
3 heavily modified variants of the Sultan RS may appear in Vehicle Cargo source missions. Each variant has a unique license plate number, colour combination and different set of bodywork modifications.
The SN0WFLK3 Sultan RS seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The F1D3L1TY Sultan RS seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The 5H0W0FF Sultan RS seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
SN0WFLK3 Sultan RS thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos .
F1D3L1TY Sultan RS thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos.
5H0W0FF Sultan RS thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos.
In Grand Theft Auto Online , Sultan RS's and Banshee 900Rs spawn after the " Race Bet " Steal Vehicle Cargo mission. These custom cars will tail the player after they steal the vehicle. They spawn in these specific colors with these specific modifications. The cars will spawn in pairs. Whether they spawn with extras (the roof and the seat bars for the Banshee 900R) is completely random. There is two variations of each car.
Modified Sultan RS (1) after Race Bet. ( Rear quarter view )
Modified Sultan RS (2) after Race Bet. ( Rear quarter view )
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Two-door sports car ( GTA V & GTA Online )
The Jester is a two-door sports car in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Business Update . It is manufactured by Dinka in the HD Universe .
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , the Jester is designed as a two-door sports coupe, clearly influenced by the Toyota Supra Mark IV (A80) and Toyota Celica (T200) .
The Jester returns in Grand Theft Auto V with a drastic change, where it resembles the 2015 Honda/Acura NSX (NC1) , with curvy features and distinct Japanese styling in both the bodywork and front and rear fascia. The headlights and the hood are derived from the BMW i8 .
The Jester bears numerous intakes on the front bumper, square-shaped headlamps inside glass casings and a long bonnet. The sides have long intakes on the skirting area, while the greenhouse area assumes a sloped profile on the rear section. The rear end is mostly flat, having circular tail lamps and two exhaust tubes below the rear bumper. Jesters can spawn in a variety of primary colours for the body.
The Jester features a noticeable Japanese styling, which include many sharp curves throughout the car. The front face is predominated by the CFRP splitter at the bottom and the inner sections of the outer intakes, together with a central intake with two separations near the outer sections. The upper area is made up of an aggressive front face made by the irregular shape of the headlamps and the main grille, causing it to resemble an angry grin. The main grille also bears the manufacturer emblem on the centre, while the headlamps are placed in black housings. The bonnet area features an impressed area that is narrower near the front end, and curves outwards up to the width of the windscreen's base.
On the sides, the car makes use of inset areas around the front fenders and on the lower sides, together with CFRP skirts. The middle section features distinctive formations that start from above the inset front sections and run towards the rear end, with a slight curvature over the rear wheel arches. The wheel arches also have formations that give the car a wider profile than the middle section. On the greenhouse area, the car makes use of black trim around the windows, as well as black A-pillars with body-coloured mirror wings. Towards the rear-quarter windows, the car has open sections that allow the air to flow behind the rearmost pillars, while the roof has an impressed area on the centre, which runs from the front to the rear. The boot area is generally flat and has a ducktail spoiler.
The rear end is more sloped and rounded, giving it a stark contrast between the front. The upper area features a black panel that houses red modern light strips around the upper section and outer sides, as well as the manufacturer badge on the centre and lettering on the passenger side that display the car's name. The lower portions of the car are occupied by the black housings with the reverse lamps on the outer sides, followed by three meshed vents, two exhaust tips below the reverse lamps and a CFRP section below the car. A license plate can be seen on the bumper area, just above the central vent.
The interior of the car uses the same interior and dial set from the Vacca , itself being a derivative of the Banshee interior. The Dinka logo can be seen on the centre of the steering wheel.
The primary colour of the car is applied on most of the bodywork, while the secondary one is applied on the portions of the front central intake, the impressed section of the bonnet area, part of the roof and the interior stitching. The car uses a carbon derivative of the "Dash VIP" rims seen in Los Santos Customs , wrapped in low-profile tyres.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Jester is equipped with an inline engine sporting a performance intake manifold. Unlike the Supra, the Jester is front-wheel-drive, yet retains its sporty qualities. In acceleration, speed, handling, and braking, the Jester is inferior to most other sports cars and tuners in the game, superior only to the Euros . However, the vehicle still possesses good grip and braking, ideal for sharp cornering using the brake or handbrake. Like most tuners in the game, the body construction is poor, making the car susceptible to intense damage from high-speed impacts and heavy gunfire.
The Jester's engine sound is shared with the Blista Compact , Club , Esperanto , Feltzer , Flash , Majestic and Tahoma .
The Jester has good top speed and acceleration, making it comparable to other sports cars in its class. The acceleration is average, however the handling makes up for this. Based on a Japanese sports car, the steering and agility of the vehicle are extremely sensitive and responsive, due to the fact that the Jester is all-wheel drive (20% - 80%, front to rear torque distribution). This also allows the car to have exceptional handling even over slippery or wet surfaces, making it a useful getaway vehicle even in poor conditions.
The agility of many Japanese sports cars contributes to extremely skillful and quick moves if used right, but at low speeds could cause a crash with excessive traction, acceleration, and small turning radius, likely due to the all-wheel drive nature of the car.
Due to the fact that there is an electric motor, there is no loss of power during gear shifts; this is very useful when racing and simply wanting a smooth ride. But the Jester tends to start drifting when driven on dirt roads, most likely due to its large power output. Crash deformation is excellent, and it can take multiple front end collisions without deforming the front wheels.
Despite claiming to have a V6 engine, it actually has a V8 engine, which can be seen through the rear window. The Jester shares the same engine sound as the Coquette .
The Jester can only be modified at Wheel Arch Angels in Ocean Flats , San Fierro .
The Jester in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - The Definitive Edition . ( Rear Quarter View )
Possible combinations of modifications that can be given to the Jester at Wheel Arch Angels in GTA San Andreas .
The Jester on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version of GTA V .
The Jester (Racecar) in Grand Theft Auto V .
Pre-modified variants of the Jester can be seen driving around Los Santos randomly.
The Business DLC Sports Modded 2 Jester in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
Like the randomly spawning modified Jesters, two sets of Jesters may spawn outside Los Santos Customs, pre-modified. These again only spawn in single player. The vehicles appear in set color sets with the same modifications. They will not spawn with any of the default extra components. These variants are named "LS_CUSTOMS_MODDED_SP" and use the exact same modifications and colors as the Business DLC Sports Modded sets.
An NPC-modified Jester outside Los Santos Customs ( Rear quarter view )
The H0TP1NK Jester seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The T0PCL0WN Jester seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
The NOF00L Jester seen in Vehicle Cargo missions, GTA Online . ( Rear quarter view )
H0TP1NK Jester thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos .
T0PCL0WN Jester thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos .
NOF00L Jester thumbnail on Ad-Hawk Autos .
The Jester is part of two vehiclemodelsets , " LS_CUSTOMS_MODDED_SP " and " BUSINESS_DLC_SPORTS_MODDED ". The first allows the Jester, among other cars, to spawn outside Los Santos Customs heavily modified, and in other places around the city, the second allows the Jester and Massacro to spawn heavily modified in specific locations. They only spawn in GTA V .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Buffalo is a car appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Sabre Turbo is a two-door muscle car appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Stallion is a muscle car featured in almost every Grand Theft Auto title. It is manufactured by Classique , Vapid and Declasse in the HD Universe .
In Grand Theft Auto , the Stallion resembles a 1967–1969 Chevrolet Camaro . However, the hood is more alike the Pontiac GTO.
Stallions are seen in a variety of single colors and with a hardtop roof.
In the 3D Universe , the Stallion appears to be based mainly on the 1969/1970 Oldsmobile Cutlass (also the Oldsmobile 442 ) in the front end, while the back end is closer to the '70-'72 Cutlass. The hood scoop seems to have been influenced by the 1971 Ford Mustang and 1970 Mercury Cougar models. The front grill and lights seem to have been influenced by the 1974 Pontiac Luxury Le Mans . The notchback roofline, the smaller size and the name could be nods to the 1st generation Ford Mustang .
All renditions of the Stallion remained largely the same, retaining the front bumper with fog lights, dual grilles, circular headlights, twin ram-air hood, square tail lights on either side of the rear bumper and twin exhaust pipes. However, there are small differences between each models, depending of the game's settings:
Liberty City and Vice City versions may spawn with an open top or soft top, while the San Andreas version features a hard top. The soft top always has a secondary color, but the hard top has the car's primary color.
The Stallion makes a return in Grand Theft Auto IV , where it is manufactured by Classique . The grille and lights remain largely unchanged, but the body more closely resembles the 1968–1969 Oldsmobile Cutlass ; the rear end is reminiscent of the 1971 or 1972 Cutlass , featuring "STALLION" above the bumper in a manner similar to how "OLDSMOBILE" appears, along with additional lights. The headlights are surrounded by headlight bezels similar to those on the 1968 Cutlass.
The Stallion assumes a similar layout to the 3D Universe renditions, only with a larger body and slightly narrower front. The front fascia retains the bumper, grille and headlight placement, though the lower fog lights are no longer present. The car also retains the twin ram-air hood and opens to reveal a V8 engine with a strut brace over it, while circular mirrors are seen mounted on the front fenders, just beside the hood. The cabin area adds rear-quarter windows and a passenger-side antenna next to the trunk compartment, while the rear bumper adds two rectangular turn signals between the square red tail lights and the central license plate, though it does not have any reversing lights (similar to the Intruder and the Contender ). A single exhaust pipe can be seen on the driver side.
Again, the vehicle may spawn with a colored hard top or a black soft top, the latter being either folded up or down. It can spawn in a variety of primary colors for the body and the hard top, and uses a set of five-spoke wheels and medium-profile tires.
In Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , there are two versions depending of the platform:
The Stallion returns in the enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , this time manufactured by Declasse (albeit still possessing Classique badging on the car itself). It appears relatively unchanged in terms of design from its GTA IV counterpart.
It can be obtained in two variants, the stock car and the street versions, with the latter being available in hardtop and convertible forms. When purchased, the Stallion will always spawn without a roof. Currently, the soft-top/hardtop forms can only be found spawning on the streets in Grand Theft Auto Online . Since the Freemode Events Update , however, it is possible to buy the roof in Los Santos Customs , though it still does not offer any visual modifications.
Again, the car only spawns in a single color for the body and the hard top, and the rims were slightly changed, being similar to the "Kracka" rims seen in Los Santos Customs .
The Stallion is one of the fastest cars on the road.
The Stallion's handling varies in each game. In Grand Theft Auto III , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , it has reasonable acceleration, though its rear wheel drive layout and huge amount of low-down torque led to it being easy to perform professional-grade drifts around corners, doughnuts and wheel-spin when taking off.
The Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories version is altogether slower than the other renditions, but its tail-happy traits remained. In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , it handles much like the Clover and Sabre (even having the same engine sound to the latter), but fishtailing rarely occurs.
Unlike most other muscle cars, the Stallion has a low-revving V8 that sounds more like an inline engine (except for GTA San Andreas ), coupled to a four-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. The engine sound is shared with the Manana , Perennial , and Idaho .
In Grand Theft Auto IV the Stallion is easier to steer, but it will occasionally spin out of control, especially in poor weather conditions such as rain. With good power, handling, and acceleration it is easily one of the top three muscle cars in Grand Theft Auto IV , thanks to its 5.7 liter (347ci) twin-cam V8 engine, the five-speed gearbox and the FR layout. Care should be taken through corners though; despite having good grip, the Stallion is awful at keeping flat through corners. The Stallion can also be quite bumpy on the road. Braking is below average. Durability is poor, as the vehicle can only take few hits before catching fire.
The vehicle uses a loud engine sound, shared with muscle cars such as the Sabre GT and the Dukes .
The Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars rendition adopts a combination of performance traits of previous renditions, with high top speed and acceleration and good steering, but very poor grip as a result of excess torque, resulting in the Stallion skidding frequently, even in slight turns. It competes with the Dukes .
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the Stallion shares the same engine and drivetrain, but sporting different performance, having worse acceleration than in GTA IV , but a higher top speed, and much better handling. The car no longer spins out of control when cornering at high speeds.
Again, the car has a 5.7 liter (347ci) twin-cam V8 engine, a five-speed gearbox and an FR layout. It uses a low-revving sound shared with cars like the Buccaneer and the Blade .
A Diablo Stallion in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories .
A Burger Shot Stallion in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
In GTA San Andreas , the Stallion can be modified only at TransFender :
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A Stallion in the first Grand Theft Auto .
Artwork of the Stallion in Grand Theft Auto III . This art was reused in the trailer for Grand Theft Auto Advance , despite the fact that the car was not in the game.
A convertible Stallion in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . ( Rear quarter view )
A convertible Stallion in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas - The Definitive Edition . ( Rear quarter view )
A Stallion with a hardtop roof in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Stallion with a soft-top roof in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Stallion with a retracted roof in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
The Nintendo DS variant of the Stallion .
The iOS variant of the Stallion .
The papercraft variant of the Stallion available on the Rockstar Games Social Club . ( Rear quarter view )
A topless Stallion in Grand Theft Auto V and Online . ( Rear quarter view )
A soft-top Stallion in Grand Theft Auto V and Online . ( Rear quarter view )
A Stallion on the Southern San Andreas Super Autos website ( Enhanced version ).
The Stallion on the Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stallion on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stallion in the cinematic preview on the GTA V Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Stallion in the cinematic preview on the Grand Theft Auto Online Rockstar Games Social Club.
A papercraft model of the Stallion , available for download on the Rockstar Games Social Club website.
" stalion86st_d.tga "
" stalion86in_d.tga "
" stalion86flames_d.tga "
" stalion86body_d.tga "
" stalion86details_d.tga "
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Dukes is one of the four boroughs of Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV , Episodes from Liberty City and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
While it only contains nine out of the city's fifty five neighborhoods, the Dukes neighborhoods themselves are large, thus the borough is large, being slightly larger than its neighboring borough Broker , thus becoming the second largest after Algonquin . Its archetype is Queens (both words are positions in a monarchy), and although it shares its name with the muscle car also found in-game , there does not seem to be a relation between the two. The borough is spread across two islands. Seven of its eight districts are located on the Broker/Dukes mainland island, with the eighth being Charge Island in the Humboldt River . Dukes and Broker are the only boroughs in the metropolitan area to share an island. All other boroughs are separated by water.
Dukes consists of nine, large, heavily-populated neighborhoods and has the second-highest population behind Algonquin .
The character of Dukes varies considerably across its neighborhoods. It has the most green space out of all the boroughs in Liberty City which is particularly concentrated around the districts in the north of the borough such as Meadows Park , and western parts of Francis International Airport .
The income of Dukes itself overall could be described as middle class, as it also could be considered the most suburban out of all four boroughs. The main urbanized district of the borough is East Island City which is centered around the Dukes Boulevard thoroughfare. It contains both modern business land use. It consists of a Bank of Liberty chain, the National Union of Contemporary Arts and the LC24 Tower in addition to declining industrial areas in the neighborhood's southern reaches and Beechwood City , which also merges with Broker . Charge Island is Dukes' other industrial centered local. Commercial shopping areas are centred around Camden Avenue in Cerveza Heights , where the majority of shopping outlets are independent ethnic businesses, as well as Saratoga Avenue in Willis where there is a Shopping Mall as well as the presence of chain business outlets. Cerveza Heights can be considered the neighborhood of central importance in Dukes, with the presence of the borough's medical and policing services on Livingston Avenue as well as the housing of Huntington Street Station , an important Subway station providing a crossover interchange between the two loops of the Broker Line .
Some parts of Dukes could be considered leafy, quaint and expensive suburban locales. These are mainly focused around Willis , Meadow Hills , Meadows Park . Dukes' only housing projects are the Steinway Projects which are located along Yorktown Avenue in Steinway , a working-class neighborhood.
Francis International Airport is Dukes' and Liberty City's largest district, and obviously serves as the center for aviation in Liberty City .
Like the real-life archetype of Dukes, the borough shows evidence of much multiculturalism. The communities often noted for a strong ethnic identity in Dukes include: Irish/German Steinway , Italian/Hispanic/Chinese Cerveza Heights and Jamaican/Caribbean Willis .
According to the documentary A History of Liberty City on CNT , Dukes' name was derived from the word "dookie" because the area's residents "smelled like shit."
One high school from Dukes appears on Hornyhighschoolreunions.com
The Vapid Dominator is a two-door muscle car appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
A red and black Dominator can be seen in the opening shot of the game's first trailer , traveling along a busy freeway in Hamlet near the Leonida Penitentiary .
The Dominator is heavily inspired by the fifth generation Ford Mustang , seen in the main body and headlight pockets, with the circular headlights, squared grille, and hood being skewed forwards and down. The sharp angular body line on the sides and the fastback design of the rear hatch were taken from the first generation Mustang. The front grille design, rear fascia, and tail lights are derived straight from the 1970 Ford Mustang fastback, as is the name Dominator, which was the name of a hood available on early 70's Mustangs. The shape of the hood vent as well as the C-pillar, rear bumper, and the exhausts somewhat resemble those found on the fifth generation Chevrolet Camaro .
The front of the car is predominated by the bulky bumper, featuring a small extender with two inset sections spanning about two-thirds of the car's width. The bumper itself has a central meshed intake that is the same width as the lower inset sections of the extender, holding two circular fog lamps with chrome surroundings. Toward the outer edges of the bumper, there are two vertical intake ducts, intended to direct airflow to the front brakes. The upper area is slanted and features a meshed grille with chrome details around it and a separation on the middle, along with circular headlights with chrome surroundings on the outer sides and "450cui Supercharged" badges on the driver side. The outer portions of the car houses two smaller, square-shaped lights, the upper ones being the turn signals and the lower ones additional main lights. The hood of the car features dual intakes around the front.
The sides of the car have a slightly extended profile on the wheel arches and the skirting area, while the front fenders bear the same badges as the front grille. Halfway up the body, the main body line has a slightly angular shape that is more visible around the front, but is absent past the door area. The doors themselves have rounded mirror shells mounted near the A-pillars and horizontal door handles, both of them body-colored. The cabin area makes use of black trim around the windows and small separations between the door windows and the rear-quarter windows. The rearmost pillars have checkered flag badges on them and the roof has black details running across the vehicle, connected to the front and rear window trims.
The rear of the car features an inset formation with a ducktail spoiler on the trunk area and a black panel on the center, housing three red vertical tail lights on both sides and various badges around the center that displays the car's name and manufacturer. The middle section holds a license plate and two square reverse lights, while the black lower area has two housings for the chrome exhaust tips.
In the enhanced version, the car assumes its own dedicated interior that is widely used on various muscle cars; this interior consist of a black dashboard, where the driver side has a carbon-fiber backing with black/white analog dials, the main dials and fuel gauge being placed above the steering column and four smaller gauges centered on the car. The passenger side has another carbon-fiber section above the glove compartment and the radio set can be seen below the central gauges. A single square air conditioning unit can be seen on the driver side.
The primary color of the car is applied on the bodywork and the interior stitching, while the secondary color is applied on the lower sides, the side stripes between the arches and in a wide stripe starting from the hood intakes and running towards the rear end. The car features twelve-spoke alloy wheels with a concave profile and a black detail on the center, wrapped in low-profile tires.
The Dominator features a high-torque engine that gives it decent acceleration and an above average top speed. It is one of the fastest Muscle cars in a straight line because of its impressive torque, but this is also the Dominator's major flaw, as the raw power the engine supplies makes the car very difficult to control in corners. It has a tendency to engage in bouts of immense oversteer and fishtailing on certain corners. In addition, hitting any guardrail or short wall by the side will more than likely send the Dominator going over it, a very real situation likely to be encountered when driving at high speeds or racing on any highway. This makes the Dominator overall a fairly tricky car to drive. Crash deformation is average, able to take a decent amount of head-on hits at speed before smoking or being disabled.
While its severe handling issues may make it a bad choice for inexperienced drivers, the Dominator can reward those who take the time to learn its driving style by being a very good car for racing, with only a select few amount of other Muscles able to keep up.
The car features a modeled V8 engine with a single bank of cams on either side of the engine. On the top is a large cylindrical air filter wrapped with red filter paper. The engine sound is a very high torque V8 engine, with low-silenced exhausts. The badges indicates that the Dominator is powered by a 450cui (7.4L) Supercharged engine. A 5-speed gearbox and a RWD layout come as standard.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Pre-release screenshot of the Dominator , depicting the beta wheel design.
An advertisement of a Dominator .
Another advertisement of a Dominator .
Dominator in the original version of GTA V . ( Rear quarter view )
An NPC-modified Dominator variant in the enhanced version. ( Rear quarter view )
The NPC-Modified Dominator spawned at the Los Santos Customs in La Mesa .
The NPC-Modified Dominator spawned at the Los Santos Customs in Burton .
The unique armoured yellow Dominator used in Cops Capacity .
The Dominator on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Dominator on the Arena War website.
The Pißwasser Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Apocalypse Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Future Shock Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Nightmare Dominator in Grand Theft Auto Online .
In Grand Theft Auto Online , modified Dominators alongside Futos will chase the player after the Steal Vehicle Cargo - Car Meet Vehicle Cargo mission.
There are eight versions of the Dominator which can spawn during the Car Meet - these have similar modifications and share the license plate - 87DZU328
There are two versions of the Dominator which may spawn after the Car Meet and chase the player - these both have similar modifications and have identical license plates - 87DZU328
The cars that pursue after the mission have engine and transmission modifications applied, allowing them to keep up with the fleeing player relatively quickly.
Modified Dominator (2) after Car Meet. ( Rear quarter view )
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Bravado Gauntlet is a two-door muscle car featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Gauntlet is heavily inspired by the 2008–2013 Dodge Challenger , based on its distinctive body shape, with lines that are flared and smooth, and iconic hood scoops, while the "GAUNTLET" lettering design on its rear quarter is similar to that on the 2006 Challenger Concept . The Gauntlet also appears to take major influences from the fifth-generation Chevrolet Camaro , having a similar grille, front bumper, side skirts, and side vents. While its rear end draws heavily from the Challenger, the tail lights are closer to the ones on the Camaro as well.
The front end of the car has a slight pointy shape, where the bumper houses a meshed central intake that is about half the car's width and two circular fog lamps beside it, as well as the license plate mounted in front of the intake. On the upper area, the car features four horizontal grille separations on the center, while the outer edges have black housings with dual circular headlights. The hood has a bulged shape on the center that is wider on the rear half, while the Bravado emblem can be seen on the front.
The sides are mostly traditional in appearance, featuring flared arches and thin vertical intakes on the rear fenders, intended to cool off the rear brakes. Silver "GAUNTLET" lettering can be seen around the rear quarters of the vehicle, while the front fenders bear "450cui Turbocharged" badging. The greenhouse area is relatively simple and features black trim around the windows, with black separations between the door and rear-quarter windows, along with colored mirror wings.
The rear of the car is very traditional, featuring semi-circular tail lights with chrome details on either side, together with the Bravado emblem on the central section. A black section can be seen at the bottom of the bumper, which spans almost the entire width of the car and houses two rounded exhaust tips on the edges. The license plate can be also seen on the center of the black section.
In the enhanced version, the interior of the Gauntlet is shared with the Dominator , the Buccaneer and the Ruiner , using the same textures and dial set. The steering wheel bears the Bravado emblem on the center.
Most of its bodywork is painted with the primary color, while the secondary color is present in the form of a wide stripe running across the whole vehicle, starting from the hood and continuing to the trunk, also going down onto the rear bumper. The car uses seven-spoke rims also shared with the Radius , which looks very similar to certain custom muscle rims seen in Los Santos Customs , wrapped in low-profile tires.
The Gauntlet has a strong 450cui single-cam turbocharged V8 engine and high acceleration, capable of going from 0-60 in a matter of seconds, along with an above average top speed, only beaten by the Dominator . However, it has a moderate tendency to spin out. Its engine is coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. It uses a high-revving and aggressive engine sound, being also shared with the Sabre Turbo , the Picador and the Buffalo S .
A Redwood Gauntlet in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Gauntlet in GTA V . ( Rear quarter view )
A Gauntlet being modded for a Heist .
The Gauntlet on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
A Gauntlet on a graphic of Bravado Stylized Tee in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Phoenix is a two-door muscle car appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Imponte Ruiner is a three-door liftback appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
The Ruiner is prominently inspired by the mix of the third-generation Pontiac Firebird with the third-generation Chevrolet Camaro , seen on the elements of the front fascia and the whole rear fascia, and cues from a variety of other 1980s muscle cars and coupés. [ vague vague The information near this tag is too vague, and requires clarification. ] In GTA IV the hood features an optional offset cowl induction hood strikingly similar to those found on 1982-1984 Trans Ams and 1985-1992 Firebird Formulas. The front fascia elements, wheel design, boot, and tail light layout are modeled after the Mitsubishi Starion , while the headlights and exhausts resemble those from the Nissan 300ZX Z31 . The front bumper seems to be a mix of both Starion and 300ZX bumpers.
The tail lights and trunk spoiler are shaped like those of the Camaro, but the area between and below the tail lights better resembles the Firebird, with badging positioned where the Firebird logo would be. Ruiners may feature "RUINER" decals and stripes along the lower part of the doors, much like those of the Camaro IROC-Z, although the stripes and decals share colors with the ground effects, much like the 1982–1984 Trans Ams.
The Ruiner has a similar role and build as the Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas iteration of the Buffalo , but of a slightly newer design language of the latter half of the 1980s; its most recognizable features include a slanted front profile, the "Ruiner" stripe detailing along the sides, and its three-row tail light configuration. On the front end, the headlight housing details imply that the Ruiner has pop-up headlights, but there is no existing animation or functionality for the headlights to move.
The Ruiner features a T-top roof, which comes in three different configurations: with solid roof panels, with glass roof panels, or without roof panels. The hood may also come in two different configurations, being a plain hood or with an offset cowl induction hood.
The interior features leather and classic muscle car features throughout. The dashboard utilizes a green digital display with multiple meters and measurements alongside the speedometer, though they are nonfunctional. The seats, rear paneling, and floor mats of the interior feature red stitching throughout. The seat headrests and floor mats, as well as the steering wheel, also feature the Imponte logo.
Ruiners can spawn in a variety of colors, with the primary one on the body and the secondary one on the mirror shells and in the form of stripes on the lower side, displaying the car's name. A tertiary color is also available for the rims, which is set to white or gold (the latter only available in at least three color sets). The rims have five wide spokes with a pentagon-shaped center and black details.
The Ruiner largely retains its design from GTA IV , with only minor changes. It features a quad exhaust instead of the dual exhaust present on the GTA IV version. The offset cowl induction hood is no longer an available option for the hood, but a traditional ram air hood (similar to the Buffalo from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ) may be applied. There have also been minor changes to the badges and decals.
With the Freemode Events Update in 2015 , the three T-Top roof options from the GTA IV version are present but cannot be changed by the player and are random at spawn. All variants spawns with its windows rolled up, even without roof panels.
In the original release of GTA V , the Ruiner utilized its original interior model from GTA IV . However, with the release of the enhanced edition and accompanying first-person perspective capability, the interior was changed to have a higher quality interior, using the "Dominator" interior type seen on other 1980s era muscle cars such as the Phoenix and the Sabre Turbo .
Color distribution is the same as before, but the mirrors changed to receive the primary color and the interior stitching matches with the same primary one. The Ruiner's rim design is the same, able to be found in Los Santos Customs under the Muscle category, named "Mecha". There is also an off-road counterpart under the Off Road category, named "Dune Basher". Unique to the stock rims, however, is that the wheel color has a darker tone (although painting the stock wheels is only possible on Content Creator ).
In GTA IV , the car handles quite loosely, being able to perform power slides with ease, and in the hands of a skilled driver, can prove to be an excellently handling vehicle. The car can brake easily, and can accelerate quickly, leaving the player with a well-rounded pony car, perfect for any criminal getaway. Just be careful for the lack of durability and low ground clearance. The Ruiner is also a great choice for races .
According to its badges, the Ruiner is powered by a large 450 cubic inches (7.4 liter) Fuel injected V8 engine, which is supported by its engine model (a single cam V8, judging by its small details on the cam covers), coupled to a 5-speed gearbox. Its engine sound is identical to that of the Faction and Sabre .
Acceleration is very good, close to cars with a much higher price tag. Its top speed is also excellent; it is brisk, yet controllable.
The suspension is moderately firm, giving the Ruiner much needed grip in the turns, while still loose enough to have some fun with. Handling-wise, the Ruiner is a stellar performer, with constant grip, controllable loss of traction, and a lot of torque. Braking is very good, if not among the best in its class. Crash deformation is acceptable, but can only withstand a few high-speed crashes before stalling.
As in GTA IV , the Ruiner is powered by the same 450cui Fuel-injected V8 (according to badges), coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear-wheel drive layout. The engine sound is the same as the one on the Dominator .
The Ruiner 2000 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Ivan Bytchkov 's Ruiner in Grand Theft Auto IV .
As of the After Hours update for Grand Theft Auto Online , the Ruiner received livery modifications, not available in Story Mode.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Grand Theft Auto IV
A Ruiner with a glass T-Top in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view ).
A Ruiner with a solid roof and plain hood in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view ).
A golden Ruiner in GTA IV .
Grand Theft Auto V
The Ruiner in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
Unique interior from the original version of GTA V .
An NPC-modified Ruiner spawned outside Los Santos Customs . ( Rear quarter view )
Grand Theft Auto Online
The Ruiner on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
A Ruiner racing jacket.
Event week screenshot.
Grand Theft Auto VI
An unnamed Leonida Man next to a yellow Ruiner in Grand Theft Auto V 's first trailer , dancing and grabbing his crotch on a busy Interstate 404 .
Enhanced version
Harlem Harlem This vehicle will spawn around North Holland. Bohemian Bohemian This vehicle will spawn around Bohemian territory (or with Bohemian peds). Chinese Japanese Chinese Japanese This vehicle will spawn around Chinese and/or Japanese territory (or with Chinese/Japanese peds). South American South American This vehicle will spawn around South American territory (or with South American peds). Network Network This vehicle will spawn in multiplayer.
The inside of the Ruiner 's hatch in GTA IV . Note the license plate textures.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Declasse Vigero is a two-door pony car featured in Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto V , and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Vigero essentially resembles a fusion of various model years of the first-generation Chevrolet Camaro . It closely resembles the 1968 Camaro Sport Coupe with its grille shape, rear bumper, and lack of vent windows. The front bumper, small rectangular intakes at the front, and more squared wheel wells seem to be inspired by the 1969 models . The rear fascia appears to be a combination of the 1969 Camaro and 1967–1968 Pontiac Firebird , while the tail lights might be a cross between the 1969 Camaro RS and the Nissan 300ZX (Z31) . The ridge between the grille and bonnet follows a similar line to the 1968–1969 Pontiac GTO , while the two chrome bars on the grille and the double headlight layout might have been taken from the 1969 Ford Fairlane .
The "Vigero by Declasse" badge featured on the grille and rear portion pays homage to the "Camaro by Chevrolet" badge , while the "Super Sport" badge on the sides is a nod to Chevrolet 's SS performance line. Additionally, the "VL1" badging on the rear and front fenders mirrors Chevrolet's ZL1 engine model . The Vigero also features the cowl induction hood and the blacked-out lid panel, which are features seen on the first-generation Camaro SS models .
Interestingly, the car also features front-fender mirrors, a design feature typically found on Japanese cars from the 1960s and 1970s.
The front of the Vigero features dual open sections and a small silver/chrome bumper on the lower side, as well as a rectangle-shaped grille and dual circular headlights on the upper side, the latter being located in black housings and surrounded by a silver/chrome detail. The hood has an intake bulge on the center.
The sides of the car are rather simple, having slight flares on the arches and silver/chrome details at the bottom, as well as circular rear-view mirrors mounted over the front fenders. The cabin is relatively simple and features silver/chrome trim around the windows and on the inner pillars. A radio antenna can be seen on the driver side of the trunk area, right next to the trunk compartment.
The rear end of the car consists of a black panel with a silver/chrome horizontal divider on the center, separating the upper main/brake lights from the lower turn/reverse lights on the outer edges. The lower area consists of a flat silver/chrome bumper and the central license plate below it, as well as dual exhaust pipes below the car's bodywork.
The Vigero is one of a few cars in that can be found as a beater – a rusted out version of the original car with bent, rusted and dented bumpers, rotted weatherstripping, missing/broken door windows, duct-tape sealing around the pillars and channels of the windscreen, side-windows and A-B pillar channel, and dirty/torn seats and damaged dashboard components in the interior. The outer housings have two functional lamps (which sometimes sag out of their fittings), while the inner ones will have either missing lamps or a driver-side, non-functional lamp hung by the remaining wires. Remaining wires are also found crossing the front grille. The front right and rear left wheels may also wobble and shake while driving due to loose lugnuts, bent rims, or other worn parts, while the rims themselves have coats of rust on them. The car can be seen either with large patches of rust across the bodywork, heavy rust with no remaining parts of original paintwork or a combination of the rust patches from the first one and the rust consistency from the second one. The beater Vigero also features a unique, distorted horn not found on other beater vehicles. Unlike the other two beaters in the game (the Sabre and the Emperor ), the Vigero will never spawn with a license plate.
The beater Vigero may be seen in three different combinations of fenders:
All Vigorous, including the beater versions, come with anti-theft alarms, but the beater alarms sound heavily worn and out of tune. All Vigorous also spawn in single colors for the body and use five-spoke rims with medium-profile tires.
The Vigero appears almost identical to its GTA IV iteration, though the beater variant does not appear.
Again, the car has access to a single color for the body and retains the same wheel design, being identical to the "Azrea" muscle rims available in Los Santos Customs .
Like most muscle cars, the Vigero's engine is very powerful. Unfortunately, the Vigero's small tires and heavy metal body hinder the launch and handling of the car. However, the Vigero stays much flatter through the corners than the Sabre GT and Dukes , due to its smaller size, and is less prone to fishtailing than the Sabre GT. However, it is quite rigid on steering under braking pressure.
Like other beaters in the game, the rusty variant of the Vigero suffers from degraded performance. Acceleration is poor, reaching 60 mph in a very slow manner. The top speed, however, remains the same as the standard variant. Unlike the normal Vigero, the beater variant is rather smooth on steering under braking pressure, allowing for better cornering abilities.
The Vigero is powered by a single-cam V8 engine, coupled to a five-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. Vigorous share the roary engine sound of muscle cars like the Stallion , the Sabre GT and the Dukes, although the beater variant has delayed sounds and a noisy crankshaft. The noisy crankshaft is the result of loose connecting rod bearings. The exhaust fumes are black, indicating that the car burns oil due to a bad head gasket on the oil channels. Like other beaters, the engine often stalls and backfires when shifting gears; this could be due to shot fuel injectors dumping more than normal amounts of gas or premature engine flooding. The backfire spits out a thick plume of brown smoke, indicating a shot exhaust system possibly rusted through, or heavy carbon build-up in the exhaust. A broken exhaust system is noticeable by the puffing sounds from the engine; this is caused by either a bad manifold seal or the manifold rusted through.
The Vigero is still a powerful pony car, but this time the Vigero may spin-out easier than in GTA IV , due to its engine power improvement. It can accelerate much quicker, at the cost of a decreased top speed.
Again, the car is powered by a single-cam V8 engine, coupled to a five-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. Its engine sound is generally high-revving and loud, shared with cars like the Dominator and the Ruiner .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Moderately damaged. ( Rear quarter view )
A customized Vigero owned by Tico .
A Vigero in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear Quarter view )
The Vigero on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Tampa is a two-door muscle car featured in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , The Ballad of Gay Tony , and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Festive Surprise 2015 update. It is manufactured by Declasse in the HD Universe .
The Tampa in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas resembles a 1965–1969 Chevrolet Corvair Monza , except it is not rear-engined and it features a grille.
The Tampa is primarily based on the 1970–1972 Dodge Dart Demon , with parts of the exterior, especially the side profile, based on the 1970 Ford Mustang Coupe . The front grille and headlights are nearly identical to those of the Ford Falcon (XB) . The roof and sides of the car are reminiscent of the 1968–1972 Chevrolet Nova , but with less of a fastback profile. The rear is reminiscent of a 1968 Dodge Charger , but the tail lights, exhausts, and exhausts cutouts seem to be taken from the Chevrolet Corvette (C3) . The paint job is based on that of a 1969 Ford Mustang Boss 302 , with the stripe going across the trunk based on the super bee stripe , found on performance cars from Dodge and Plymouth since the 1960s.
The Tampa has plain steel wheels, and mismatched paint on multiple body panels, indicating it was put together with spare parts from a junkyard, making it one of the first " Beater " cars in the GTA series. These panels cannot be resprayed into a single color at Pay 'n' Sprays , but can be done at TransFender . However, the vehicle will retain its crooked license plates if it is modified. The vehicle also appears to be over-scaled and in comparison to some under-scaled cars, as it looks much larger than an old compact.
The car spawns in a variety of primary body colors, with the mismatched parts actually being its secondary color. The Tampa is one of the gang cars used by the Da Nang Boys , a gang based in San Fierro .
In The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony , the Tampa is redesigned as a far beefier muscle car. The Tampa in TLAD only appears in the opening cutscene in front of the Pay 'n' Spray and is also featured in the BradyGames Strategy Guide for the episode. However, an email sent by Rockstar indicated that the car was not actually drivable in the game. The car is also not programmed to appear on streets, even if the player drives it. The Tampa later reappears in TBoGT as a fully functional car and is a common sight early in the game. While still lacking a manufacturer's badge, the car is implied through police chatter to be a Bravado model, although it is actually a Declasse model.
The Tampa is distinguished by its grill lamps and twin ram-air hood intakes, along with a black soft top. Depending of the color set, the car may feature a secondary color in the form of twin wide stripes running across the hood, angled stripes with "310GT" on the front fenders with thin stripes running across the sides and a rear stripe on the upper rear side, going across the trunk and rear quarters. The Tampa has the same interior and spawn colors as the Sabre GT .
In Grand Theft Auto Online , the Tampa returns as part of the Festive Surprise 2015 update and it was released on Wednesday, December 23, 2015. Note that this car was depicted in the first day of the update (seen in a screenshot), yet the car was released 2 days later.
The car retains its design as in EFLC , except for some minor details on the interior and the lack of the ram-air hood (although it is available at Los Santos Customs as a hood modification, however).
Color distribution is the same, where the primary one is applied on the body (as well as the interior stitching), and the secondary one in the form of the aforementioned stripes (except for the twin stripes on the hood, which are part of the aforementioned hood modification). Its stock wheels have an updated rim design, being similar to the "Revolver" muscle rims that are also available at Los Santos Customs.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Tampa's performance is, at best, below average, with sluggish acceleration and mediocre top speed, as well as heavy steering and unstable cornering, like that of a Clover and a Sabre .
The Tampa's performance, which is identical in both TLAD and TBoGT , is considerably good in terms of raw power. The car's acceleration is excellent and the car can reach a considerably high top speed. This is because the car features a 310 cui (5.1L) V8 which produces a lot of torque at low RPM which allows burnouts to be performed easily, the combination of the large size of the engine and the softness of the suspension means that cornering is rather unpredictable, however, as the car can spin out in sharper turns or burn out, if the player applies gas to the car, as the car generates excess torque. Braking is considerably impressive considering the car's weight, providing the car with shorter stopping distances.
The vehicle is powered by a 310 cubic inches (5.1 liter) V8, positioned in a front-engine, rear wheel drive configuration and coupled to a 5-speed gearbox. The engine also has a mounted cylindrical air filter by default. Being a muscle car, its engine sound is similar to that of a Sabre GT or Dukes .
The Tampa's V8 engine is fairly powerful, providing enough torque to make the wheels spin on takeoff and to give it decent top speed and acceleration. The handling is relatively stable for a muscle car, helped by the very good suspension. The frame is very heavy and rather durable, but the front and rear fascias show a bit less crash durability than one would expect and the car is also not particularly resistant to gunfire. The brakes are not very good, meaning the car requires brake discipline to corner properly. The car overall feels like the Sabre Turbo with a bit less power in exchange for better cornering.
The car retains its handling line from EFLC , albeit the gearbox is now only 4-speed (despite the website claimed to be 5-speed). The car also retains its engine model. In place of a turbocharger, the Tampa features a supercharged sound effect, which is amplified when a turbocharger is equipped.
Available in TransFender :
A Tampa featured in the Lost and Damned's opening cutscene.
The Lost and Damned's Tampa in the BradyGames Guide.
The Tampa in TBoGT . ( rear quarter view )
The Tampa poster.
Screenshot for the Festive Surprise 2015, showing a Tampa in the background.
Official screenshot of the Tampa.
The Tampa on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
A Drift Tampa in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Drift Tune Drift Tampa in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A Weaponized Tampa in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Buccaneer is a two-door coupé appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Willard Faction is a two-door muscle car debuted Grand Theft Auto IV , and was later added to Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Lowriders update.
The Faction is designed as a 1980s American sports coupe that resembles a 1982–1987 Buick Regal , replacing the Majestic from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , more specifically the Buick Grand National and Regal T-Type , as seen in certain details and portions of the design. The headlights seem to be inspired by the 1981 Chrysler Cordoba / Dodge Mirada , while the tail lamps might have been inspired by the 1981–1983 Chevrolet Malibu . The rear fascia might have also taken inspiration from the Nissan 240RS , while the front bumper is somewhat similar to the third-generation Chrysler LeBaron or the 1985–1989 Chrysler LeBaron GTS , albeit with a more angular design, similar, to some extent, to the 1983–1988 Chrysler New Yorker .
The Faction is depicted with a simplistic body, characterized by its bent grille and front end fog lights, along with a bulky bumper housing the rectangular turning signals and a plate holder. A silver "WILLARD" marking can be seen above the grille, as well as a "TURBO" badge on the passenger side of the grille.
The sides have a simplistic profile, with flared arches, ridges passing through the doors, and side marker lights on the front area, while the greenhouse area has plastic trims around the windows and square rear-view mirrors on black supports. The rearmost pillars have silver markings displaying the manufacturer, and the front fenders have "400 TURBO" badges. An aerial/antenna can be seen on the driver-side A-pillar.
The rear end features a small trunk lid and a set of square tail lights housed in plastic panels, with the rear plate holder in between. The bumper houses the two reverse lights, and two exhaust pipes are seen on the rear quarters, below the bumper. The "FACTION" and "V8 TURBO" badges can be seen over the tail lights, along with a " Liberty City Willard " badging on the rear plate holder.
The Faction may spawn either with a glass or a solid T-top roof, along with a small hood scoop displaying additional "400 V8 TURBO" badges on it. The Faction can spawn in a single color or a two-tone color, with the secondary one applied on the roof and pillars. The car uses a unique set of wheels, sharing the same rim design as the ones on the Taxi and Police Cruiser .
The Faction retains its design from Grand Theft Auto IV . However, thanks to GTA Online 's enhanced graphics and textures, it is overall better detailed than its previous appearance.
The car may spawn with the solid T-top, a glass T-top or no panels, which can be changed at Los Santos Customs . Color distribution is the same as in GTA IV , although the interior stitching matches with the primary color. Its wheels are also the same, being similar to the "Fairlie" muscle rims available in Los Santos Customs .
Powered by a 400 CUI turbocharged V8 engine, the Faction is a fun car to drive with a high-torque engine up front. Combined with the FR drivetrain, handbrake turns are smooth yet controllable. The brakes have good stopping ability. Its top speed is reached fairly quickly thanks to its light body weight.
It shares the smooth, high-revving engine sound with the Sabre and the Ruiner .
The Faction is powered by a hefty single overhead camshaft turbocharged V8 with a large air intake centralized on the engine bay. Just like its badges state, a turbocharger is present to the bottom left of the engine.
The car has average performance. The Faction's acceleration is pretty slow and poor for its class, yet still has enough power to backfire when revved, despite this, the car's power is unable to allow good take-off and traction is minimal; the car struggles to drive up gradients more than around 30 degrees. Its top speed is acceptable, and is very similar to its IV generation. Braking is also average, nothing too special but enough to bring the heavy car to a stop in an acceptable amount of time, being much better than the GTA IV variant. The normal version of the Faction is not advised for long-term usage because this vehicle is extremely sensitive to minor imperfections in the road, and has a tendency to be sent into the air because of an imperfection, especially curbs.
The engine sound is rather unique, in that it shares elements (such as the backfiring stages and high-revving stages) from the Dukes , but also has the low-revving/idle sound similar to that of the Blade and Buccaneer .
The Faction Custom is a custom variant of the Faction exclusive for Grand Theft Auto Online , which features highly-advanced modifications, and hydraulics enabled, not present on the standard Faction.
The Faction Custom Donk is a custom variant of the Faction exclusive for Grand Theft Auto Online , which features highly-advanced modifications, and hydraulics enabled, not present on the standard Faction. It is a hi-rider with larger wheels and a larger ground clearance. It was added in the Lowriders: Custom Classics update.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A Faction with a primary coloured roof and solid T-Top. ( Rear quarter view )
A Faction with a primary coloured roof and glass T-Top. ( Rear quarter view )
A Faction with a secondary coloured roof and solid T-Top. ( Rear quarter view )
A Faction with a secondary coloured roof and glass T-Top. ( Rear quarter view )
A wrecked Faction .
Upgrading the Faction to the Faction Custom at Benny's Original Motor Works .
The Faction on Benny's Original Motor Works.
Grand Theft Auto Online
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Hermes is a customized late 1940s coupe featured in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , and Grand Theft Auto Online . It is manufactured by Albany in the HD Universe .
The Hermes is based on the 1949-1951 Mercury Eight , with styling cues from the Hudson Hornet , which is evident with the roof and hood shape, but the car has been evidently modified into a lead sled , with a chopped roof and an additional pair of tail lights.
The Hermes returns in Grand Theft Auto Online , this time assuming the design of the 1942 and 1946–1948 Buick Super , while still featuring influences from 1949-1951 Mercury Eight in the overall shape. The front fascia more closely resembles the first-generation Hudson Hornet . A classic bumper similar to the Hornet's can also be bought from Los Santos Customs . The rear lights and trunk bear mild resemblance to the 1948 Cadillac "Cadzilla" , while the side window shape and rear, especially with the bumper removed, seems to also loosely resemble the Holden Efijy .
The Hermes is distinguishable by its large body, but seemingly small occupant's visibility. The hood area is relatively long in comparison to the rest of the vehicle, and has a curved trunk. In GTA Vice City , The Hermes does not feature a license plate, while the other renditions adds one on the rear end (directly on the trunk in GTA San Andreas and on the rear bumper in GTA Vice City Stories ).
All renditions of the Hermes spawn in a variety of primary colors on the bodywork, with the GTA San Andreas iteration having a secondary color for the interior (always set to white).
The Hermes is modified into a lowrider , featuring a very sloped rear portion and numerous curves and arches. The rear wheels are hidden within the car's bodywork and various details are added to the front section of the vehicle, such as small side vents on the hood and trim over the hood and the fenders. The Hermes uses the standard lowrider interior seen in the Peyote and Hotknife , with classic analog dials and a fabric dash.
Like the Yosemite , the car has air-ride suspension ; when at a stand still, the car lowers to the preferred suspension added in the Mod Garages , however, when moving, the vehicle lifts to give height between the ground and the car. This is particularly useful and helps to avoid scratching the vehicle. The lowest suspension modification for the vehicle clips through the ground, being the lowest any vehicle in GTA V and GTA Online can go.
The vehicle's bodywork and engine cam covers are painted in a primary color, while the bumpers and the trim found around the front, sides, cabin windows and lights are painted in a secondary color. It uses a unique set of wire-style wheels, but the spokes have a concave pattern and the center is medium-sized.
The performance of the Hermes could be described as average; its acceleration is underwhelming, but it has a moderate top speed. It is unusual in that it has front wheel drive (very rare in American cars of the period) and it cannot be blown up with a gas-tank shot like most cars in GTA San Andreas . The car is also prone to understeer, owing to its large size, small tires and front wheel drive.
In GTA San Andreas the brakes are extremely inefficient and are among the worst in the game, but in the hands of an experienced player, the vehicle may be used for drifting. Holding the brake and the handbrake simultaneously is a good way to increase the brake strength of the car. However, this technique is still less effective to put the car into a full stop while sliding down slopes at a high speed.
65 / 105 ( GTA Vice City Stories )
Diesel ( GTA Vice City Stories )
AWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
1700 / 3748 ( GTA Vice City Stories )
AWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
The Hermes is a very stable and comfortable ride thanks to the air-ride suspension it possesses. Because of its length and shape, it struggles to make quick maneuvers. However the vehicle's purpose does not make this a huge concern.
In terms of speed, once given time, it is very competitive against even some sports cars, exceeding most muscle cars, even with similar weight, but the weight does limit the vehicle in terms of acceleration, and huge amounts of wheelspin are present with hard acceleration, without modifying the vehicle's engine. Despite this, the Hermes still proves to be a steady, firm ride and does not tend to spin out of control, even during winter conditions , where road conditions are unpredictable. However, because it is top-heavy, it has a tendency to flip over when cornering whilst hitting a curb or when cornering driving downwards or upwards a hill for example; this also happens on flat, straight roads.
The Hermes' suspension raises while in forward motion, and lowers to its default height when stationary. This seemed problematic on curbs and other uneven areas, as it may get easily stuck when stationary. However, this mechanic was changed in the Arena War update, as the car raises with the handbrake button held.
The Cuban Hermes in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
The Hermes can only be modified at TransFender .
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Hermes on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Example of how the suspension is lowered when stationary...
...and raised when in motion.
Benny drives his Hermes in the LS Car Meet introduction cutscene.
Seen on the "Classic American Cars" poster inside the Auto Shop if the "Route 68" style is applied.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Moonbeam is a four-door minivan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Voodoo is a car appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Slamvan is a two-door pickup truck appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Washington is a range of executive sedans found in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Grand Theft Auto IV , and Grand Theft Auto V . It is manufactured by Albany in the HD Universe .
Depictions of the Washington in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories are primarily based on the 1982–1987 Lincoln Continental , with heavy influence taken from the Lincoln Continental Mark VII , particularly evident in the rear and C-pillar design. The trunk does not feature the characteristic "hump" found on the Mark VII, which may have been inspired by the 1981–1988 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme , while the configuration of the headlights could have been influenced by the Jeep Cherokee (XJ) .
In the HD Universe, the Washington is primarily based on the 1998–2002 Lincoln Town Car , with its taillights being derived from the 2003–2011 Town Car models . It features "Executive" badging, akin to the Executive Series trimmed Town Cars, and its wheels are also very similar to those found on 1998–2002 Executive Series Town Cars . The shape of the headlights appears to draw inspiration from the 2006 Lincoln Zephyr/MKZ , while the indicators and grille may have been influenced by the Volkswagen Phaeton (GP1) . The rear design, especially the shape of the taillights, the smooth bumper, and the quad exhaust configuration, seems to be primarily derived from the 2000–2005 Cadillac DeVille , while the single front intake is similar to the 1992–1994 Cadillac Eldorado . Additionally, the rear plate holder is shaped similarly to that of the second-generation Ford Crown Victoria .
The Washington features a generally boxy yet contemporary design, resulting in the car being one of the newest cars at the time of Vice City 's 1980s settings. For GTA San Andreas , the car remains largely similar, except for a 90's facelift, with the exception of wider headlight clusters, a modified front grille and rear light clusters that light up as a whole at night or during braking. While similar to the GTA Vice City rendition, the GTA Vice City Stories Washington sports additional side trims derived from the FBI Washington , implying the FBI Washington's vehicle model was used in place of the original Washington model from GTA Vice City .
The car normally spawns in a variety of single body colors. The Vice City Stories version of the Washington also spawns in white, which is not available in GTA Vice City except for the Xbox version.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , the overall design of the Washington is way less boxy than the 3D Universe renditions, having a rounded front bumper with a grilled section on the center, a black trim at the bottom and a license plate. The upper area of the car features the main grille and a set of wide headlights with small turn signals. An Albany ornament can be seen on the front of the hood.
The side have a similar profile to the 3D Universe iterations, having fender flares and chrome lines passing through the doors, along with black sections at the bottom. The greenhouse area features black, plastic-like trim around the windows, as well as rounded mirror wings near the A-pillars and "Executive" badges on the rearmost pillars. A small aerial mount can be seen on the passenger side, on the top part of the trunk.
The rear of the car bears an Albany badge on the end of the trunk, while the rear end has an inset area containing the license plate and silver lettering displaying the car's name, embossed on the passenger side. The outer edges of the car has large tail light clusters, each one consisting of large red outer lights and small, vertical inner lights, with black trim around the whole clusters. The rear bumper follows a similar profile to the front one, with a black detail at the bottom and two moldings for the twin exhaust pipes.
The Washington can spawn in a variety of single colors on the body. It uses a set of rims consisting of a large dish with various small spokes around it.
The Washington is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu. It will also make an audible "door ajar" dinging noise if the player exits the vehicle but leaves the door open. It can be heard clearly in quiet areas with the volume turned up.
In Grand Theft Auto V and Online , the overall design of the Washington remains unchanged from GTA IV . The "Washington" badge on the rear of the vehicle in GTA IV is removed, as well as the aerial mount on the trunk, crease and side trim. The grille has been smoothed out, while the LED strips along the inset of its taillight clusters are more clearly defined when its lights are turned on.
In the enhanced version, the vehicle's interior is the Police/Taxi archetype used in vehicles such as the Fugitive and Premier, as well other vehicles analogous to the real-life Panther platform such as the Stanier-based Police Cruiser and Taxi . The Washington's interior is distinguished by additional wood (or wood veneer) paneling on the doors, furthering its Town Car references.
Again, the Washington can spawn in a variety of single body colors, and retains its wheel design.
Pre- GTA IV Washingtons are generally regarded as having only moderate performance, having an inline-6 engine coupled to a five-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive configuration (however, the Washington featured in GTA Vice City Stories has a front-wheel-drive configuration), which is largely attributed to its bulky design. Its longer wheelbase and weight often results in under-steer and poor cornering, while its size may also be a factor in its moderate acceleration, and its top speed is also estimated to be moderate. So getting it to top speed and good acceleration takes longer than sports cars. Nevertheless, its superior size and weight allows the Washington to ram aside other sedans more easily.
FWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
1450 / 3197 ( GTA Vice City Stories )
FWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
The Grand Theft Auto IV rendition of the Washington performs largely the same as cars such as the Admiral and the PMP 600 . Acceleration is slightly below average and top speed is slightly below average, but makes up for its braking, which is very good. The suspension is very soft, designed to flatten out bumps in a road, not for high speed cornering, leaving the Washington fishtailing and spinning out of control when cornering at speed. Accident deformation is superb, making the Washington ideal for ramming vehicles. The engine build quality is also above average, and will sustain multiple direct impacts before smoking, or being set ablaze.
The car appears to be powered by a V8 engine, coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear-wheel drive layout. It uses the same low-revving, smooth engine sound from luxury cars such as the Cognoscenti , the PMP 600 and the Admiral.
The Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online Washington performs largely the same as the GTA IV rendition, aside from a slightly higher top speed and slightly better handling. The car is, however, prone to damage, as it cannot sustain too much gunfire or crashes. Still, the Washington performs much like average sedans like the Stanier .
Again, the car appears to be powered by a V8 engine, coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear-wheel drive layout. Its engine sound is generally low-revving and smooth, appearing to be similar, if not identical, to most standard sedans.
It can only be modified at TransFender .
The Washington on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The FBI Washington is a law enforcement counterpart of the Washington appearing in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . Unlike the Washington, the FBI Washington only spawns in a black and white color, respectively.
The Romero Hearse , formerly named " Romero " and " Romero's Hearse ", is a Washington-based hearse appearing in multiple Grand Theft Auto games. It features a station-wagon design with a converted coffin-compartment in the rear.
The Stretch is a Washington-based limousine that shares the Washington's front and rear portions in its Grand Theft Auto V appearance.
Two unique black Washingtons may be seen driven by the French during the mission All Hands On Deck! , in GTA Vice City . While it is possible to reach the cars and enter them, it is impossible to drive them (as the mission immediately ends and the car is lost). It is also impossible to push the cars to a garage as an alternative, as the player is only given a brief window of time before Juan Cortez is killed, leading to mission failure which warps the player back to the nearby mission trigger with the cars vanished. This variant is often confused as the FBI version, but closer inspections reveals that the details are completely different.
One of two black Washingtons featured during " All Hands On Deck! " in GTA Vice City. ( Rear quarter view ).
A Washington is requested as part of Stevie's Car Thefts . Unlike most vehicles in the side mission, the Washington appears with a black body color that is not unique, as many black Washingtons can be seen around Algonquin. The car will still spawn in the same location until is delivered.
The requested Washington in Stevie's Car Thefts in GTA IV.
In the enhanced version of the game, a white Washington alongside a white Burrito may spawn at the Satellite Relay Station with several scientists inspecting the area. These vehicles replace the FIB Buffalo and FIB Granger that spawned in the same location in the original release of the game, not obtainable in the enhanced version.
The vehicles only spawn at this location between 10:00 am and 12:00 pm [ 1 ] and appear in both GTA V and GTA Online .
This version cannot be recreated in Los Santos Customs as it sports a Classic Pure White primary and pearl color [ 2 ] , and can spawn with any of the available extras (coffee cup holders, cigarette holder, etc).
The scientists' Washington in Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
Even though the Washington has dual exhaust pipes, exhaust fumes only come from the right pipe.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Admiral is a four-door saloon/sedan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Premier is a four-door sedan featured in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . It is manufactured by Declasse in the HD Universe .
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , it is the civilian version of the Taxi and the Police Car , it also appears to be a "cousin" of the bulkier Elegant , while the more compact HD Universe rendition seems to be the older brother of the Asea .
The Premier strongly resembles a 1993-1994 Chevrolet Caprice , meaning it was likely a brand new model (the game is set in 1992 , model years are generally one year ahead). The grille is lined with chrome and is split down the middle vertically, similar to the 1982-1984 or 1987-1988 Pontiac 6000 . The tail lights, which are rectangular in shape as opposed to the Caprice's rounder tail lights, might have some influence from 1992-1994 Ford Crown Victoria 's. Its very boxy greenhouse looks closer to the Australian Holden VK Commodore , but this may be to conserve graphics. In fact, graphics are likely to blame for the car's resemblance to the facelifted Caprice; a beta Police Car had a much closer resemblance to the 1991 model. [ 1 ]
The car assumes a relatively simple design, with a wide grille, wide lights, large bumpers and ample room for four occupants. The Premier is the base car for San Andreas' Taxi , and the San Fierro Police Department 's and Los Santos Police Department 's Police cars . The Premier is available in a variety of single-tone colors.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony , the Premier is redesigned as a more modernized compact design, which is more suited for urban city streets. It largely resembles the Chevrolet Cobalt , with some details that resemble the Daewoo Lacetti and the 2005-2011 Chevrolet Aveo sedan (for its Altezza style tail light design). Its front and rear are also similar to the Citroën C5 2001-2007.
Compared to the 3D Universe iteration, the car has a sleeker and more compact design, where the front bumper sports a lower grille that spans about half the car's width and a license plate in the center, followed by circular fog lamps beside the grille and inset formations with thin intakes on the outer edges of the bumper, whose upper lines coincide with the upper border of the grille. Above the bumper region, there is a rectangular upper grille with a slightly narrower width compared to the lower grille, a silver finish and five horizontal separations, while the outer sections have silver rounded headlight housings with sharp inner edges and black trim. Each one of the housings contains large circular headlights in the center, smaller ones on the inner edges and tiny amber indicators on the outer edges. The hood has distinctive lines that appear to start from around the headlight housings and almost reach the lower corners of the windshield, while the Declasse logo can be seen just above the upper grille.
The sides of the car make use of flared wheel arches and thin ridges separating the side skirts from the rest of the car, while additional ridges are seen passing through the doors and body lines that run parallel to the waist lines, starting from the upper edges of the headlight housings and leading towards the upper edges of the tail lights. The greenhouse area bears plastic/polymer trim around the windows and wide gaps for the front and rear doors, while the painted mirror shells are seen near the A-pillars, and an aerial sits on the roof. Silver horizontal door handles are fitted as standard.
The rear of the car consists of the trunk lid with a protruding lip on the upper border, a dedicated section for the license plate, and additional badges on the lower corners that display the car's name and manufacturer. Next to the trunk are rounded housings with similar features to the frontal ones, where each housing contains large circular red lights on the outer/central sections, small reverse lights on the inner sides, and wide amber indicator bars on the bottom edges. Below the upper region, there is the large rear bumper with a slightly impressed formation in the middle, while the bottom area features a vented section that is about two-thirds of the car's width and has two moldings for the exhaust pipes.
The Premier is only available in a variety of single-tone colors and uses a set of six-spoke rims with a circular center, using medium-profile tires with standard tread pattern.
The Premier in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online retains the same design and features as in GTA IV , though with slight tweaks on the model; the upper grille has three gaps instead of five, and the ridges passing through the doors are no longer present. It also has less visible lines on the bodywork, giving it a smoothened appearance. In the enhanced version, it uses the same interior and dial set as the Stanier and the Taxi .
The description on Southern San Andreas Super Autos mentions that it was popular in Canada but not in the United States , likely as the compact car category makes up a bigger proportion of Canadian auto sales, and also as the Daewoo Lacetti was sold under a mainstream brand in Canada (as the Chevrolet Optra), as opposed to an obscure brand in the US (as the Suzuki Reno/Forenza) [ 2 ] . It is also mentioned that the Premier stopped production in 2010, after six years on the market.
Again, the Premier is only available in a variety of single-tone colors, and uses the same wheel design as before.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Premier's acceleration, speed, and handling are all quite impressive, while the sturdiness and bulk of the chassis render the Premier capable of withstanding heavy damage, making this front-engine, rear-wheel-drive beast simply one of the best passenger vehicles in the game. The strong engine, responsive handling, and sturdy frame also make the Premier an ideal car for performing the PIT maneuver and for ramming other vehicles, hence its use as a police car. The only downside is its below average grip on road.
The Premier is likely to be powered by a large V6, with a 5-speed gearbox and rear-wheel-drive layout. Premier's Drag Multiplier is 1.8, which is more aerodynamic than any other top end supercar, except for the Infernus where the Drag Multiplier is 1. It is officially the third most aerodynamic car in the game.
The Premier in GTA IV has a 4.0L V8 engine according to the badges, coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a rear-wheel drive layout. The engine itself is responsive, propelling the vehicle off the line quickly, and giving it an outstanding top speed for an everyday sedan, but its gear ratio kills acceleration, since the gears are apparently very far apart, accurately representing the stereotypical of an automatic transmission in most compact cars. Handling is rather good for a car in the compact 4 door class, keeping the Premier stable in most turns, though some oversteer can be felt. The suspension is rather soft, however, giving way to body roll. Braking is adequate, though not as good as other, larger sedans. Crash deformation is below average, with the Premier stalling after only a few collisions. Overall, the Premier's performance traits are similar to that of its mid-sized counterpart, the Merit .
The vehicle shares its sound with the Uranus , the Esperanto and Roman's Taxi .
The Premier seems to have had a power upgrade as the car has a lot more get up and go than the previous rendition. Handling has also been improved thanks to the more realistic FWD like its real-life counterpart. It is responsive and quick, and handles very well on tight corners, making the Premier a rather fun and exciting car to drive while being on par with more expensive, larger sedans in the game. Braking is good, and ABS is standard on all models.
The Premier's engine sounds to be a mid to high revving V6, and the beefy engine and 5-speed transmission work together in propelling the vehicle off the line quickly, resulting in a long burnout from the front wheels and yielding an impressive 0-60 time as well as a fantastic top speed for its class. For being a smaller compact sedan, the engine can be overpowering at some times, considering the Premier's lighter total weight and economy themed instead of performance themed drive train layout, but nevertheless the Premier is a good getaway vehicle in terms of performance.
Damage deformation, however, is quite poor, as crashing headlong in the front even at moderate speeds can significantly degrade its overall performance, resulting it in becoming sluggish. Further collisions mean lower speeds which can make evading the police a challenge.
The engine sound seems more high-revving and smoother compared to the GTA IV iteration, being also shared with the Asterope and the Romero Hearse .
NOTE: Las Venturas Transfender will charge 20% more (except for colors)
Various versions of the Premier . From left to right: A normal Premier, a Police Car and a Taxi.
A Premier in GTA V .
The Premier on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Premier is rare vehicle, seldom spawning throughout the entire state.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Vapid Stanier is a four-door sedan appearing Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
The Stanier appears in the form of service vehicles in GTA IV , namely the Taxi , Police Cruiser and NOOSE Cruiser , but later appears as a civilian sedan in GTA V and Online , where its name is established. The Taxi and Police Cruiser also return in GTA V and Online , but under a new "second generation" appearance, alongside two additional models; the Sheriff Cruiser and the Unmarked Cruiser . Originally unnamed, this newer model would later be given the Stanier LE name after the release of The Chop Shop update for GTA Online .
The Stanier appeared in the September 2022 GTA VI leaks , across two clips. In one clip, a red Stanier is parked along the Ocean Drive-inspired road in Vice Beach , near Lucia . [ 1 ] In another clip, it is faintly visible in blue driving northbound past the Gas Stop branch in Port Gellhorn along Route 2 . [ 2 ]
The vehicle's design is largely similar to its prior renditions; however, changes have been made to the chrome and plastic trims, taillights, interior, and rims, which now feature Vapid emblems. The car also now includes a third brake light behind the rear window.
The Stanier is based primarily on the first-generation Ford Crown Victoria (EN53) , with influence from the second-generation Mercury Grand Marquis , as seen in the headlights and overall rear fascia, although retaining tail lights from the Crown Vic. The black panel in the rear fascia may also pull inspiration from the second-generation Crown Victoria (EN114) . The front and rear bumpers appear similar to the second-generation Ford Taurus (DN5) . The grille and bonnet likely take inspiration from the second-generation Crown Vic, but the grille in particular appears closer to the twelfth-generation Cadillac Eldorado or the fourth-generation Chevrolet Caprice .
The Stanier shares its stock rim design with the Minivan. In IV, the Vapid-based Taxi and Police Cruiser share a heavy-duty steel rim design, wrapped in low-profile tyres and featuring protruding chrome centrecaps inspired by Ford's Type 146 centrecaps. This rim design is featured on several other vehicles with a similar purpose, such as the Merit-based Taxi, the Buffalo-based police cruiser, and the Police Interceptor.
The Stanier shares much of its handling profile with the Police Cruiser variant of the second generation. It has an above average top speed, powered by a modded twin-cam V8 engine. It loses little momentum as it tackles sharp turns at speed, with noticeable body roll. Due to its RWD drivetrain, the car is also able to power-slide into corners readily.
The Stanier's performance in crashes remains stellar - being able to take multiple direct hits to the chassis, drivetrain, and suspension without failure.
The Taxi in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Police Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The NOOSE Cruiser in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A Stanier in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
Interior of the Stanier in the original version of GTA V . Note the floating computer screen.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Greenwood is a four-door sedan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Emperor is a four-door sedan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Primo is a four-door midsize sedan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Intruder is a four-door sedan appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Merit is a four-door sedan featured in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto IV . It is manufactured by Declasse in the HD Universe .
The Merit appears to be based on the first generation (1991-1996) Mazda "Sentia" 929 with some traits of the first generation (1992-1997) Ford Crown Victoria .
In Grand Theft Auto IV , the Merit is redesigned with a similar look to the 2000-2005 Chevrolet Impala , particularly the 2004-2005 SS package (evidenced by the fog lights, wheels and the spoiler), with the back seemingly inspired by the fifth generation 1995-1997 Honda Accord , and the tail lights being identical to the ones found on the E36 BMW 3 Series . The front bumper could be derived from a variety of cars, but the headlights and front grille are reminiscent of a fifth generation Pontiac GTO .
The Merit in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is depicted as a full-sized sedan with a rounded body design. It has medium-sized bumpers, a rectangular grille and wide main lights with small turning lights, in conjunction with silver trim around the windows, square-shaped mirrors and a single exhaust pipe with dual exits on the passenger side. The Merit can spawn in a variety of single colors for the bodywork.
The Merit assumes a modernized design compared to its previous iteration, but retains the overall shape and four-door layout. The front bumper of the car is quite dominated by a rectangular mesh grille, which spans about two-third of the car's width and is partially covered by the license plate on the driver-side half. On each side of the lower grille is an unusable circular fog light, which are almost of the same distance between the upper and lower edges of the bumper, but are closer to the outer edges than to the lower grille. A black/plastic strip runs almost through the whole upper edge of the bumper, leaving a small gap near the front wheel arches. The upper section of the car houses the main grille in the center, which has a curved shape on the lower and side edges. This main grille bears three painted horizontal dividers over a mesh, and a single silver central separation, bearing the Declasse logo. Right beside the main grille are the black headlight units, each one containing dual circular main units and small turn indicators on the outer edges. The hood lid is quite basic in design, but bears two distinctive lines, one starting from each side of the main grille and running towards each edge of the windshield.
The sides of the car are relatively basic, featuring flared arches and rectangular skirting areas. Black/plastic strips can be seen running through the doors, which have the same height as the one on the front bumper, while thin accent lines are seen starting near the headlights and running towards the tail lights, passing between the black door handles and the waist lines. The greenhouse area makes use of black trim around the windows and inner separations, together with painted mirror shells on the front doors and rounded rear-quarter windows. A single aerial can be seen on the rear portion of the roof. The trunk lid mounts a small spoiler by default.
On the rear, the car makes use of a dedicated section for the license plate and a black/plastic strip above, while additional badges are seen above the aforementioned section and the lower edges of the trunk lid. On the sides of the rear end are large tail lights that are divided into four slots: the upper indicators and lower main units located on the outer edges of the car, and the upper reverse and lower brake units located within the trunk lid. The rear bumper is rather basic in design and bears a black/plastic strip located at the same height as the front and side strips, also leaving small gaps near the rear wheel arches, and a small molding for the driver-side exhaust.
The Merit is seen in a variety of single colors applied to the body, and uses a set of five-spoke rims with thin grooves on each spoke (which seem to be based on American Racing's line of chrome IROC-Z wheel replicas). It is fitted with medium-profile tires with regular tread pattern.
The vehicle is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
This rendition of the Merit is designed as a balanced out performance, having average brake response and cornering, and good acceleration and speed. Coupled with its four-seat capacity, the Merit is practically a good choice for drive-bys and police evasion, although crash deformation is not impressive. The Merit is a good starting car for new street racers, as it can compare with cars such as the Euros and Alpha .
One noticeable trait is that when pushing maximum gas from a standstill, the Merit will wheelspin considerably, for almost the entirety of the first gear. This trait makes it a reasonable car for drifting.
The car is powered by a petrol engine, coupled to a five-speed gearbox in an FR layout. it uses a relatively smooth and mid-revving sound, similar to cars such as the Bravura , the Nebula and the ZR-350 .
The GTA IV rendition of the Merit is powered by a twin-cam Inline-4, mated to a five-speed transmission in a RWD layout (in contrast with the real-life Chevrolet Impala, which is a FWD car). Acceleration is good, but nothing special, and in line with the Merit's vanilla, everyday sedan image. Braking is very good. The suspension is very firm, keeping the Merit flat through corners, and enabling it to corner effectively at speed. Accident deformation is acceptable, as the Merit will survive a few frontal impacts before being rendered unusable. The Merit seems suited towards any situation; it is capable of high speeds and it seems able to survive a serious car chase, making it a versatile addition to any parking space.
The Merit uses a mid-revving engine sound also present on its service variants, as well as the Buccaneer and the Virgo .
The Taxi in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Police Patrol in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Merit can be upgraded at TransFender .
NOTE: Las Venturas TransFender will charge 20% more (except for colors)
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Beta version of the Merit , as seen in the first trailer for Grand Theft Auto IV .
GTA IV ( Rear quarter view ).
Michelle 's silver Merit in GTA IV .
A wrecked Merit in Grand Theft Auto V .
The first generation Benefactor Schafter is a luxury four-door sedan featured in Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City .
The Schafter appears to be heavily based on the Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W220) , specifically the S 600 model for its long wheelbase and V12 engine, with headlights resembling that of the 2005 Ssangyong Chairman H and a rear fascia derived from the Mercedes-Benz CL-Class (C215) . The chrome trim along the bottom of the trunk resembles the reflector panel of the Mercedes-Benz W140 .
The Schafter features a distinctive design, where the front end is predominated by a bulky bumper with a set of intakes on the centre and on the edges. The upper area is occupied by silver/chrome housings with circular lamps and small lights on the edges, as well as a grille with seven horizontal bars. Said grille is also part of the bonnet.
The sides of the car are relatively simple in appearance, with flared wheel arches and wide skirting area. The window trim and inner pillars are finished in black, as well as black rear-view mirror shells.
The rear of the car is rather generic, featuring a basic boot holding the license plate and the silver badging. A set of tail lamps can be seen on the outer edges, with the reverse lamps placed within silver strips. The lower area is occupied by a flat bumper with a lip at the bottom, as well as mouldings for the square-shaped exhaust tubes.
The Schafter can spawn in a large variety of primary colours for the body, while the rims and door handles assign a white secondary colour, with the exception of two colour sets with black secondary colour. It uses plain steel rims with five small gaps around the centre.
The Schafter is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
The Schafter is powered by an apparent 6.5L supercharged V12 (according to badges) coupled to a five-speed automatic gearbox in a RWD configuration. Although the large 6.5L supercharged V12 is quite powerful, the car feels slow because of its weight. Due to said weight, acceleration is below average, compared to other vehicles in its class, such as the Oracle and Presidente . Top speed is very good for the vehicle's engine statistics and specifications. The car handling is above average, although a slight hint of oversteer is detectable, the Schafter's firm suspension makes it a pleasure in low-speed cornering. Both generations of the Schafter bear an impressive degree of torque, being able to push or ram other vehicles with ease. The suspension is a perfect balance of firm and soft, keeping the Schafter planted on the road in turns, while not jarring over bumps. Braking is fair, and ABS is available, though not standard. Crash deformation and engine build quality are excellent; the car is capable of sustaining multiple direct impacts, and can also take a fair amount of gunfire before the engine stalls or inflames. The "Russian Mafia" Schafter has a slightly higher top speed than its unmodified counterpart.
Russian Mafia Schafter ( Rear quarter view ).
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
A Schafter advertisement.
The black Schafter found at Perestroika in The Master and the Molotov .
The black Schafter used in Pegorino's Pride with Niko and Jimmy Pegorino as occupants.
A Schafter in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
The Übermacht Oracle is a four-door saloon appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The design of the Oracle draws predominantly on the BMW 7 Series (F01) , with elements from the 3 Series (F30) seen on the headlamps. The front fascia also bears a resemblance to the Infiniti Q50 (V37) , while the overall rear profile also strikes a resemblance to many Asian sedans, such as the aforementioned Q50, the Acura RLX (KC1/2) , the sixth-generation Hyundai Sonata (YF) , the third-generation Kia Optima (TF) and the fourth-generation Lexus GS (L10) . The car's overall body shape is classed as a Coupé in the game, similarly to the present-day Gran Coupé body styling found on some modern-day BMWs.
The Oracle's front fascia is made up of meshed intakes on the bumper, with the outer ones housing modern LED strips above. The number plate is mounted centrally and almost in front of the central intake. A trapezium-shaped grille finished in chrome is located on the centre, bearing five horizontal dividers over the mesh pattern. The front lights are rather curved at the bottom and consist of dual lamps, as well as L-shaped signals on the top edges of the outer lamps. The bonnet lines are clearly defined from either side of the grille and reach towards the base of the A pillars, along with smoother lines on the inner area. A manufacturer emblem is mounted on the front end, just above the grille.
The side of the car displays a very long profile and features very smooth sides. The wheelbase of the car, much like many luxury vehicles, is relatively long. The wheel arches are flared but with a smooth transition from the main body area. The lower body and upper body are split by a long main body line that covers the entire length of the car and coincides with the rear lights. At the base of the A pillar, small wing mirrors are mounted. The greenhouse section is bounded by smooth lines, and the C pillars present a smooth transition into the third box of the car's body.
At the center-top area of the car's rear fascia, a manufacturer emblem is mounted. Not far beneath the emblem is a horizontal chrome strip spanning half the car's width, whose top edge coincides with the top edge of the rear lights. The rear lights are dominantly red units. The number plate is mounted centrally between the two units. The rear bumper has a top edge that is impressed for the central two-thirds of its width. A single chrome strip is placed on the middle section of the bumper, with two reverse lamp units beside it. The base of the rear bumper features a wide vented section spanning about half the car's width and two single exhaust tips, one close to either edge.
In the enhanced version, the car shares the same interior as its older counterpart , being the same as the one used on cars such the Schafter and the Tailgater .
The Oracle usually spawns in a variety of single-tone colours. However, when taken to a mod shop, it is revealed that the primary is applied on the bodywork, mirror wings and interior stitching, while the secondary is applied on the bonnet, roof panel and boot lid. The car is equipped with split five-spoke wheels that are wrapped in low-profile tyres.
The Oracle is much sportier than its predecessor, the Oracle XS . This sedan moves rather swiftly and is powered by a smoother-timed engine when compared to the XS, which sports a larger, more aggressive engine. Cornering is an improvement over its predecessor, and braking is impressive. The Oracle is a large, heavy saloon, yet the handling is well balanced and the overall speed is exceptional for such a car. It has better acceleration than the Felon , yet a slightly lower top speed.
The engine sound appears to be similar to the one from its older counterpart, though with a smoother tone.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A comparison between the two generations of the car, side by side.
Dave Norton 's blue Oracle .
A black Oracle used by Wei Cheng 's men during Bury the Hatchet .
The Oracle on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Sentinel is a recurring series of executive cars featured in both the 3D Universe and HD Universe , with the exception of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars . It is manufactured by Übermacht in the HD Universe.
Throughout the 3D Universe, the Sentinel is depicted as a mid-size luxury four-door sedan based on various BMW sedans, with differences in design cues reflecting the game's respective time periods.
At one point of GTA III 's development , the Sentinel was named the "Beamer" (Beamer, or Beemer, is a common slang term given to BMW cars, especially the modified ones). A car of this name was previously featured in Grand Theft Auto 2 , and was also based on a BMW. Meanwhile, a " Sentinal " was also in the process of development, appearing as a modern mid-size car that would go on to become the Kuruma . Both beta cars can be found on the Capital Autos website.
The Übermacht Sentinel in Grand Theft Auto IV is redesigned into a compact two-door sports coupe, heavily based on the BMW M3 (E46) . The front fascia is similar to the Lincoln LSE , as seen in the headlight shape and front bumper. The tail light layout, as well as the hood scoop/vents and large rear wing of the XS variant, is derived from the first-generation Subaru Impreza WRX STI .
The Sentinel assumes a more rounded design, with a detailed bumper, flat grille and single headlamps. Two small intakes can be seen on either side of the bonnet. The sides have long vertical vents on the front fenders, angled side skirts and a detail running towards the rear. Also visible are miniscule STD badges in front of the doors, near the side skirts and front wheel wells. The rear end features a standard set of tail lamps on either, and a detailed boot, featuring chrome letterings displaying the car's manufacturer and name on the lower sides, a chrome strip above the license plate, and the manufacturer's emblem above.
The Sentinel spawns in a variety of primary colours on the body and usually with silver or black secondary painted alloy rims, except for one set with gold rims. The vehicle uses 12-spoke rims with a chrome lip around, as well as low-profile tyres.
It is equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
The Sentinel is redesigned once again in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online into a hard-top convertible, inspired by the BMW M3 Convertible (E93) , although the grille is a single unit as opposed to the trademark "kidney" grille found on BMW models. This gives the car a front facia appearance somewhat akin to the Lexus ISF USE20 , with the tail light shape akin to that of the Saab 9-3 . The exhausts are housed within the painted section of the rear bumper and comprised of a single oval-shaped tip per side, as opposed to the 2-per-side circular tips of the M3 which this model is primarily based upon. The wheels featured on this model bear a striking resemblance to Volk Racing GT30 or Volk Racing RE30 wheels.
The overall design of the car remains largely similar to its previous iteration, but the front end is largely dominated by the front intakes, with the central one adopting a small curvature on the lower side. The edges of the car have chrome curved housings with dual circular lamps. The greenhouse area remains similar, although the front seats are moved slightly backwards and the doors are a bit longer, resulting in a vehicle with ample room. The rear end received numerous changes in terms of details, with the tail lamps being larger, the boot having a lip above the license plate and the exhaust located within the rear end. A black portion can be seen below, housing two square reverse lamps.
The car is prominently painted in a primary colour, with the lower portions of the front and the sides, the rear-view mirrors and the retractable roof painted in a secondary colour. The stitches found in the interior matches with the primary colour. The rim design is shared with the Feltzer and the Fusilade , being identical to the "Organic Type D" sport wheels available in Los Santos Customs .
With a sturdy engine in all its appearances, the Sentinel has a decent top speed and acceleration despite its heavy weight. The car handles well, although it suffers from body roll in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . It comes with good drifting properties, although its RWD layout sometimes leads to oversteer and tailspins; these problems are more apparent in the case of the Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas rendition, due to its lighter weight distribution and softer suspension. In the very same game, the Sentinel is the second fastest four-door car in the game. Also, the Sentinel in all games is known to be durable due to its luxury build and heavy weight, which can withstand large amounts of damage before it is destroyed, making it a suitable choice for street racing, pursuits, getaways and as a cover in shootouts.
1600 / 3527 ( GTA San Andreas — GTA Vice City Stories )
As a sport compact executive coupe, the Sentinel reaches a superb top speed, but not far from the fastest vehicles in the game. It has above-average acceleration, and reaches its top speed fairly quickly as well. The Sentinel's suspension is rather soft, and it tends to roll when going around tight bends at high speed; the rear of the car also tends to bounce about when travelling on uneven roads. Its handling is above average, but at high speeds it loses a lot of grip and easily spins out of control due to the lack of weight in the rear. But if controlled right, its speed and grip can be combined to produce almost-professional like drifts that can be used to slide into sharp turns and back alleyways to evade the police without difficulty. Nonetheless, it is arguably the best choice in the modern category in multiplayer racing .
The Sentinel is powered by a twin-cam, four-cylinder engine fitted with a turbocharger, coupled to a 5-speed gearbox in a front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout. Its engine sound is similar to vehicles such as the Sultan and the Chavos .
The Sentinel received massive improvements, such as increases in top speed and acceleration, braking distance and gear shifting. Crash deformation is acceptable, and can take multiple crashes to even deform the front end. The engine is strangely exposed to gun-fire, taking the most damage from gun-fire, which is strange to say as it is completely covered. Crash deformation at higher speeds is high (quarter panels of the car may look to be "glitched" into the wheel wells if hit hard enough), and it is not hard with this car to make the wheels jam in crashes, but the car can withstand a surprising amount of frontal impacts without failing. The Sentinel is a decent car to use in online races and is even better in Free Mode sessions, thanks to its very smooth and precise driving which compensates for its (relatively) low acceleration compared to other cars.
Again, the Sentinel is powered by a twin-cam, four-cylinder engine fitted with a turbocharger, this time coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout. Its engine sound is similar to vehicles like the Tailgater and the FQ 2 .
The Mafia Sentinel, a gang variant of the Sentinel from Grand Theft Auto III , also known as the Leone Sentinel in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . Only Leones drive this vehicle.
The tuned version of the Sentinel, featured in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , Grand Theft Auto IV , and Grand Theft Auto V , which has a better top speed and acceleration than the regular one. Curiously the standard Sentinel is more expensive than the XS model in GTA V .
Unique Sentinel in Hit the Courier . ( Rear quarter view )
The Sentinel requested in Stevie's Car Thefts .
The Sentinel XS in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The beta Sentinel in Grand Theft Auto III as the " Beamer ", as depicted on the Capital Autos website.
Very early beta of the Sentinel (with XS accessories).
A gold Sentinel in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Michael drives a blue Sentinel in the first trailer .
Amanda 's Sentinel with the KRYST4L license plate, as seen in the "Michael" trailer.
The rear of Amanda's Sentinel in the "Michael" trailer.
Amanda's Sentinel parked outside the De Santa Residence .
A Sentinel magazine advert seen on a pile of magazines in Isiah Friedlander 's office .
A Sentinel with its roof down. ( Rear quarter view )
The Sentinel on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Sentinel on the Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Sentinel on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Sentinel in the Grand Theft Auto V cinematic preview on Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Sentinel in the Grand Theft Auto Online cinematic preview on Rockstar Games Social Club.
Animation of the Sentinel 's retractable roof. ( Rear quarter view )
Sentinels are generally found throughout the business districts of all the cities; some can be seen driving in the suburbs and wealthy parts of town as well.
Back view of the unique Sentinel in "Saint Mark's Bistro", showing its unique license plate.
The Sentinel is prominently featured multiple times in GTA Liberty City Stories , all of which are depicted with a dark grey/black body colour:
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Enus Cognoscenti (Pronounced as kog-no-shen-tee ) is a luxury full-size saloon appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars and returning in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Executives and Other Criminals update.
The Cognoscenti is largely based on the Maybach 62 , with front influence from the first generation Bentley Continental Flying Spur . The front bumper, trim on the rear bumper and, to a lesser extent, the headlights are inspired by the facelifted Jaguar S-Type , while the tail lights might have been inspired by the second generation Lexus SC . The chrome surrounded headlights, wheels and the rear plate holder are near identical to the Rolls-Royce Silver Seraph , though the plate holder might have had some influence from the third generation Lincoln Town Car .
The Cognoscenti is rather unique, as it features a wheelbase long enough to qualify for a limousine classification, but is still shorter in length to the Stretch . The front bumper features chrome strips on the outer edges, along with a black vent on the centre with a separation placed between two small unusable circular lamps. The upper area is predominated by the chrome mesh grille featuring the manufacturer emblem embossed on the upper side, and the chrome headlamp housings with large circular lamps and hard-to-see front white turning lights located above the external headlights. The bonnet is relatively simple and features a vented section in front of the windscreen.
The sides feature flared wheel arches and a slightly wider skirting area, along with chrome strips passing through the doors. The greenhouse area is relatively long, featuring black trim and rear-view mirror shells. The windows on the area behind the front seats are always tinted, denoting its luxury appearance. Interestingly, the car has the same interior as the Schafter , complete with a Benefactor logo on the steering wheel.
The rear of the car is somewhat rounded and features vertical tail lamps on the edges. The boot has a license plate between the two reverse lamps, all of them located inside a chrome surrounding with the manufacturer name embossed on the upper part and an emblem just above it. The rear bumper features a single chrome strip and a lower vented area, housing the exhaust tubes on the edges.
The car may appear with monotone or two-tone colours, with the secondary one being applied on the bonnet, roof, pillars and boot. It uses a unique set of plain central rims with 12 small spokes around it, wrapped in medium-profile tyres.
Cognoscentis in GTA IV come with alarms, but the ones at Jimmy Pegorino 's house do not trigger when the doors are opened. The Cognoscenti is also equipped with a GPS system with a female voice, but only if the player leaves the "selected cars" (default) option in the audio menu.
For Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , the design of the car has been reduced in size to that of a standard four-door sedan. The DS rendition features distinct single tone darker paintjobs in a variety of colours compared to other cars in the game. The PS rendition retains many of its GTA IV design cues, such as the two-tone body colour and fascia design.
The Cognoscenti makes a return in Grand Theft Auto Online , with the same design and features from the GTA IV iteration, but with improved light textures and standard rear windows.
Colour distribution is the same as before, where the primary colour is applied to the body and the interior stitching, while the secondary colour is applied on the bonnet, roof, pillars and boot. A trim colour is also available for the interior, being applied to the dashboard, seats and door panels. Its wheels feature a unique rim design, consisting of nine split spokes with a plain centre, wrapped in low-profile tyres.
The Cognoscenti is one of the larger cars in the game, with an exceptionally long body for a sedan. The weight and length of the car make it more of a vanity vehicle than one useful for missions; its handling is inferior to other sedans found throughout the city. However, it boasts a powerful engine and a rear-wheel-drive configuration, so slides and over-steer can be achieved. The suspension has a good balance of soft/firm, which irons out bumps in the road, meaning that the car does not over-compensate over the bumps, whilst not jarring over them either. The car is slightly clunky in the corners, but given time, has superior straight line speed. This car is a good option for loading up several people and making a fast getaway car, but in the corners one can easily crash and get caught. Lastly, the car's mass makes it useful as well against both police cars and roadblocks .
The car is powered by what looks like a V8 engine and shares the smooth engine sound from cars like the Stretch , the Admiral and the PMP 600 .
The GTA Chinatown Wars rendition is more maneuverable, given its shorter wheelbase and size, allowing the car to accelerate faster and steer around corners more easily. Other considerable features include its responsive brakes and burnout capability. This makes the Cognoscenti one of the better four-door sedans in the game. It also feels quite heavy, making it a good vehicle to evade wanted levels.
The Cognoscenti's large engine offers decent speed, but at the cost of general versatility. It has above average acceleration and a high top speed for the class. Handling, however, is distinctly boatish and slow to respond. The mixture of weight, long wheelbase, and low cornering angle causes the Cognoscenti to have a dreadful cornering radius, and very slow response time. Crash deformation is excellent, owing in part to its large mass which absorbs the majority of the hit and keeps it off the more important parts. Braking is sub-par overall.
Again, the car is powered by what looks like a V8 engine and the engine sound is the same as the Tornado and the Bullet .
The Cognoscenti Cabrio in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
The Cognoscenti (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Cognoscenti 55 in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Cognoscenti 55 (Armored) in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Stevie's Car Thefts Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Gracie Ancelotti's unique Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The "Wedding" Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Tony Black's unique Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Politician's unique Cognoscenti in The Lost and Damned .
The green & white IAD Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The grey & white IAD Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Uncle Kenny's unique Cognoscenti in the mobile version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Uncle Kenny's unique Cognoscenti in the PSP version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Rudy D'Avanzo's unique Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Mob Cognoscenti in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Cognoscenti on Legendary Motorsport .
The Cognoscenti incorrectly placed in the cinematic preview of the Cognoscenti Cabrio on the Grand Theft Auto V Social Club .
The Cognoscenti incorrectly placed in the cinematic preview of the Cognoscenti Cabrio on the Grand Theft Auto Online Social Club.
The Cognoscenti's police scanner speech line exists in the game files for Grand Theft Auto V . [ 1 ]
The Cognoscenti wreck in Max Payne 3 .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The first generation Gallivanter Baller is a 4-door full-size SUV appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The first generation Baller's design is an adaptation of the Huntley from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas . It is mostly based on the L322 Range Rover , with elements from the facelifted L320 Range Rover Sport . However, it features a different and less luxurious appearance, such as the front fascia similar to that of General Motors' GMT400 model series , while the rear fascia, including the tail light shape, was derived from the fourth generation Ford Explorer (U251) .
The Baller has a prominent front bumper spanning the width of the SUV, with a trapezium-shaped intake bearing a black separation in the middle and a chrome underline. The outer edges of the bumper have circular fog lamps, together with black underlines below the lamps and thin ridges over the same, at the same height as the intake. The upper side is mostly plain with the license plate in the centre. The upper area of the SUV bears a chrome surrounding, housing the main grille in the centre and the headlamp units on the edges. Each lamp unit and turning signal is separated by chrome lines, with a wider line between the upper and lower lamps. The grille itself has a wide bar in the middle and two thinner ones between the main headlamps. Above the chrome surrounding, a silver "GALLIVANTER" lettering can be seen embossed on the front part of the bonnet.
On the sides, twin square-shaped vents are present on either front quarter, between the wheel arches and the front doors, close to the bonnet level. A ridged detail can be seen between the front and rear arches, along with a less-notorious ridged detail at the same level as the lamp units and door handles. Small stepsides can be seen at the bottom, as well as black mudguards. The cabin area is much more angled than the Huntley and features black, polymer-covered A, B, C and D pillars .
On the rear end, the bumper features a concave formation with the same "GALLIVANTER" lettering embossed on the centre, featuring a black polymer finish at the bottom and small mouldings for the twin exhaust pipes. A trapezium formation can be seen on the centre of the rear hatch, serving as a space for the license plate and having a chrome detail on the upper side. The tail lamps are located in black housings, with a thin red strip for the third brake light.
The Baller is only painted in a primary colour for the body and the interior stitching. The SUV has eight-spoke rims, wrapped in low-profile tyres.
The first generation Baller is quite slow and heavy, and has a wide turning radius. Acceleration is average, reaching from 0–60 in about 8 seconds; however, like every Land Rover, the Baller is capable of climbing steep hills and has a decent performance when off-roading. Another advantage is durability; it is easily one of the most durable cars in the game. The SUV is prone to understeer at high speeds, likely due to poor weight distribution.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Beta first generation Baller seen during the first trailer , featuring 6-spoke rims and different side vents.
Comparison of the two Ballers .
Front view comparison.
Rear view comparison.
Grand Theft Auto V
Grand Theft Auto Online
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The first generation of the Albany Cavalcade is a four-door luxury full-size SUV featured in Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The first generation Cavalcade is largely based on the second-generation Cadillac Escalade (GMT826) , while portraying traits reminiscent of that of the Chevrolet Tahoe and GMC Yukon . However, the B-pillar is black as opposed to body colored, and it features an angular body design closer to the first-generation Escalade (GMT435) and GMC Yukon Denali of the same generation (GMT430) . The tail lights are based on the ninth-generation Ford F-Series .
In Grand Theft Auto V , the wheels feature thinner spokes that more closely resemble the wheels from the third-generation GMT900 series Escalade .
The Cavalcade is a large but sporty SUV, characterized by its boxy styling, distinct chrome accented grille, wheels, and hood ornament, and its large protruding bumpers and skirts.
The Cavalcade may come with or without roof racks and running boards, and will spawn in a variety of primary body colors with secondary front details, extras and accessories (normally set to white except for a single set with gold color). It uses a set of wheels with seven-spoke rims, which were later reused for the Super Drop Diamond from The Ballad of Gay Tony .
The Cavalcade retains the overall appearance as in GTA IV , except that, because of the simple design, it looks somewhat older. The rendition in the Nintendo DS version appears to have similarities to the Rancher or the Bobcat , while in other platforms, it assumes a design closer to the GTA IV iteration, but without the extra details like the fog lamps.
The Cavalcade returns with an identical design to its GTA IV iteration, with the only exceptions being the painted C-pillars and the painted side-view mirrors, also featuring a horizontal chrome strip on the middle.
Color distribution changed in comparison to its previous iteration, as the secondary color is applied to the hood and the roof. The wheels retain the 7-spoke rim design similar to the ones seen on the GTA IV iteration, albeit with thinner spokes.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Cavalcade performs quite well despite its size, with good acceleration, top speed, handling, and off-road performance. Crash deformation is minimal; the Cavalcade holds its shape after multiple accidents, though particularly strong front impacts can cause axle bending.
The Cavalcade is powered by a high-displacement V8 (based on the engine cover), paired to a 5-speed gearbox in an AWD (50% front, 50% rear) layout.
The first generation Cavalcade has a powerful V8 engine which has the same sound as the Landstalker and Sandking SWB / XL . The car performs similar to its GTA IV appearance, except it is lighter than in its previous appearance. Its suspension is also firmer and stiffer than its GTA IV counterpart due to the physics alterations. Acceleration and top speed seem to have had a minor improvement.
A standard Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Cavalcade with side steps in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Cavalcade with roof racks and side steps in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Cavalcade with an ICE system in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Inside view )
The Cavalcade in the Nintendo DS version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Cavalcade in the PlayStation Portable version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
10000-ICE system installed in the back of the trunk, GTA V .
First generation Cavalcade in GTA V . ( Rear quarter view )
The first generation Cavalcade on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The silver Cavalcade driven by Lester's target .
The Cavalcade FXT in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The FIB Rancher in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The custom Cavalcade in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
The Express Car Service Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Deconstruction for Beginners Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Exotic Exports Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Stevie's Car Thefts Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Spanish Lords Cavalcade in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Uptown Fashion Trendy Italian Shopping (Rich) Business (High)
As seen on the VIG Insurance commercial on Weazel , the vehicle originally featured more chrome trims, a trunk chrome trunk handle and lacked a badge and hood ornament.
The original Cavalcade seen with a chrome trunk door handle and lacking a badge.
Again the Cavalcade shown here with chrome C-Pillars also with the beta taxi.
The Cavalcade in hood view shown without its hood ornament.
The Cavalcade in the VIG Insurance commercial shown with small rims lacking bolts and various details.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Benefactor Dubsta is a four-door SUV in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
The Dubsta appears in the Port Gellhorn Pawn & Gun parking lot towards the end of the first trailer (1:10).
The Dubsta showcases traditional European design, incorporating numerous features that closely resemble those of the Mercedes-Benz G-Class 463 , with the headlights, which appear to be derived from the AMG models of the G-Class . Its overall design is notably boxy, prioritising off-road functionality over aesthetic appeal. The prominent wings, lower side profile, and potentially the bonnet draw inspiration from the Jeep Liberty (KK) , with some influence from the Jeep Commander (XK) as well. The front bumper might have been modeled after the Jeep Wrangler (JK) . Additionally, the tail lights seem to be influenced by the Range Rover Classic , albeit slimmed down.
The Dubsta appears to have undergone a facelift, as seen in the first trailer, featuring a new front grille, badge, and front bumper inspired by the Mercedes-AMG G 65 , while retaining the original light setup and general body shape from its previous iteration.
Furthermore, the official screenshots and Dre'Quan's artwork showcase further design changes. The headlights are now influenced by the latest G-Class (W463) , featuring horizontal tail lights, in contrast to the vertical arrangement seen in Grand Theft Auto V . The SUV can also be customized with new Brabus-inspired tuning options, including a bullbar that draws inspiration from the AMG Trial Package .
At the base of the front, a large plastic front bumper, spanning the entire width is visible. Above this bumper, a main, chrome-trimmed central grille is positioned on an elevated area of the front. There are rectangular turn indicator lamp units on either side of the grille, whose lower edge is in line with the bottom of the vent for the grille. Above the turn indicators, the main headlamp units are larger and also rectangular. The headlamp units have upper edges that are in line with the top of the main grille. The front quarter areas are almost entirely covered by very wide wheel arch flaring, adding to the muscular appearance of the vehicle. The bonnet/hood features an elevated area similar to both vehicles that it is based on. The windscreen also begins at a height higher than the base of the A pillar, like both of its inspirations.
The sides continue the utilitarian and rugged theme, featuring straight lines for the main body line and edges for greenhouse windows. The line that separates the side of the body from the roof is also completely straight. At the base of the A pillars, the car features what appear to be large, plastic rear-view mirrors. The rear wheel arches are similar in appearance to the front, but are less elevated from the body. The car also has Light Smoke window tint by default. [ 1 ]
The rear of the car denotes its simple design, with a flat end and a rear bumper spanning the entire width. A set of vertical rectangle tail lamps can be seen on either side, where the inner halves are placed directly over the rear compartment and the outer ones onto the body. A black license plate holder can be seen on the passenger side.
The interior of the car is similar to that of SUVs like the Cavalcade and the Granger . In the enhanced version , the vehicle uses the same yellow dial set as the aforementioned vehicles.
The primary colour of the vehicle is applied on the bodywork and the interior stitching, while the secondary colour is applied on the front bumper, arches, the bottom of either side, and the roof. Its wheels appear to be a derivative of the "Benefactor" SUV wheels available at Los Santos Customs , but having a concave shape on the centre, and using high-profile tyres. While the rims themselves cannot be painted due to the permanent chrome finish, the pearlescent colour gives the rims a slight tint/shade on it.
The Dubsta features such good ground clearance that its axles and differential can be viewed from a slightly high angle. The SUV features a high displacement engine, presumably a V12 engine based on the badge on the back, but the cover looks like a V8. This is sent through a permanent four wheel drive system, and then finally through large, high-profile tyres to the ground. The Dubsta is one of the most capable off-roading SUVs in the game, since it has the ability to climb over rocks and make it up steep mountains without getting damaged at all and without hesitation, as its V12 supplies an excellent amount of torque.
This SUV sadly suffers from massive body roll both on-road and off-road due to its narrowness. Going over bumps or small debris at high speeds may flip the vehicle entirely. Giving the Dubsta off-road wheels is a viable method to alleviate this setback, fortunately.
Its heavy weight can be useful when ramming other cars or pushing them. By feathering the throttle, it is possible to push a medium weight car with ease. The V12 engine, if untuned, will struggle against the weight and thus it cannot attain high speeds, and has average acceleration.
Installing the "Spare Wheel" modification for the normal Dubsta will increase its traction slightly, just as a spoiler would.
A Dubsta 6x6 in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A custom Dubsta in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Promotional image for Los Santos Customs , featuring a Dubsta .
A red Dubsta in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view ).
A Dubsta at Watson Bay in an official screenshot .
Front of a Dubsta seen in a video on the promotional website .
Dre'Quan Priest sitting on the hood of a Dubsta in official artwork .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Declasse Granger is a four-door full-size SUV featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI .
The Granger closely resembles the tenth-generation Chevrolet Suburban in terms of the front-end, side, and rear profiles. The taillights and black D-pillar are derived from the third-generation Ford Expedition and the GMT800 Suburban , while the headlights resemble those of the third-generation GMC Sierra . The wheel arches and lower side profile might have been inspired by the Jeep Grand Cherokee (WK) . Some Grangers appear with a matte gray secondary color, emulating the plastic body cladding seen on GMT800 Chevrolet Avalanches .
The front of the SUV is geometric and designed to create a butch profile. At the base of the front bumper there is a central trim area with elevated rectangles made from a polymer and a plate holder mounted in the center. Level with the top of the trim and on either side of it, there are circular fog lamps. The main grille and headlight units are located above the protruding front bumper. The main grille has three main horizontal chrome strips, the middle strip bearing the manufacturer emblem. Inset between the three main strips there are thinner horizontal strips. The headlamps have bottom edges in line with the top edge of the bottom main grille strip and top edges in line with the bottom edge of the grille's main top chrome strip. The headlight units feature two main wider sections (split by a continuation of the grille's central chrome strip) and then a thin, tall amber strip out at the edges. The hood features a large elevated area whose boundaries continue the side boundaries of the grille.
The sides of the SUV's body illustrate its intention for off-road use. The wheel arches and much of the area between them are elevated from the rest of the body, with long running boards at the bottom and black horizontal handles. The body has no extra formations, other than angled lines between the arches, at the same height as the top of the bumpers. The greenhouse area features windows that have thin black trim around the edges, D-pillars finished with black trim and black rear-view mirrors near the A-pillars. The car also has Light Smoke window tint by default. [ 1 ] On the roof, there are six longitudinal ridges and a roof rail at either side, along with what looks like a roof spoiler at the top of the rear windscreen. A third brake light is seen in the center, below the same roof spoiler.
The rear features a large windscreen on the top half of the rear compartment door and a solid inset panel on the lower half, with "GRANGER" and "3500LX" lettering embossed on the lower left and lower right corners of the lower half, respectively. There are thin tail light units that sit between the rear windscreen and the protruding rear bumper. These units are split into three sections, being upper reverse lights, middle main/brake lights and lower turn signals. The bumper bears a black upper surface between the tall edges, while the bottom side has a dedicated central section for a plate holder and wide moldings for the dual-exit, dual squared exhausts. The interior is the same from vehicles such as the Cavalcade and the BeeJay XL , which in the enhanced version, uses the same yellow dial set.
Grangers may spawn with or without a black bullbar with chrome bars protecting the grille and headlights. The vehicle is usually seen with a single color on its bodywork, while in other instances, it may be seen with a secondary color, applied to the bumpers and wheel arches. The SUV is fitted with high-profile tires and split five-spoke rims similar to the "Dune Basher" off-road wheels available in Los Santos Customs . While the rims are set to spawn with the default alloy color and is mostly finished in black and silver/chrome, the wheel color gives a slight tint/shade of the selected color that is more visible on the silver/chrome areas, which is only possible in examples generated in Content Creator .
The Granger is a powerhouse, due to its superior turbocharged V8 engine (further modeling shows an inline-4 engine) and extremely stable 4x4 design with 5-speed transmission, it is best designed for taking, and dishing out, serious punishment. Although lacking in the raw speed of a sports-class vehicle, the Granger has no problem navigating difficult terrain such as mountainous, rocky, or sandy areas, making it ideal for off-road escapes, especially when running from smaller on-road designed vehicles.
The Granger is capable of sustaining multiple assaults from head-of collisions and drive-by shootings, while remaining drivable, making it a favorite of the NOOSE, Sheriff and Park Rangers. The one downside of the Granger is its relatively low ride height, which makes certain obstacles, such as steep stairs and steep inclines an issue. In order for the SUV to make it over these obstacles the front bumper may need to be broken off.
The Granger is a large vehicle, and because of this, it can hold up to eight passengers (four inside and four outside), which makes it one of the largest capacity vehicles in the game in this regard. The Granger, due to its great torque and weight, is able to barrel through most cars on the road, including roadblocks, fences, and even larger cars. The passengers hanging onto the outside are able to use Assault Rifles and Light Machine Guns while being driven, making this car excellent for drive-by's and assaulting other cars. Care must be taken by the driver of the vehicle when players are riding on the running boards since they can be knocked off and killed in collisions.
The vehicle uses a loud sounding V8-style engine derived from vehicles such as the Bison , which is also shared with its service/law enforcement variants.
A Lifeguard in Grand Theft Auto V .
An FIB in Grand Theft Auto V .
A Park Ranger in Grand Theft Auto V .
A Sheriff SUV in Grand Theft Auto V .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Granger seen in the game trailer.
A Granger with black bumpers and fender trims. ( Rear quarter view )
The Granger on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Organizations
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Enus Huntley S is a luxury four-door SUV featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the High Life Update .
The Huntley S is based on the Bentley EXP 9 F concept SUV, seen in the general profile and the four-door layout, although the front end features a bumper design inspired by those found on Bentley models post-2010. The sides are heavily influenced by the Range Rover Evoque .
The front bumper of the Huntley S features one continuous main duct that spans almost its entire width, followed by a smaller intake below it and a square-shaped meshed grille. A set of dual circular headlamps with an LED surrounding can be seen, as well as light strips on the main duct. The bonnet bears the manufacturer emblem on the front.
The sides are distinctive by the bulky portions around the wheels and lower side, with a ridged lower section acting as side steps. The cabin features black A, B and C pillars , with the rear-view mirrors being depicted with a black lower half and a coloured upper half. The roof area has various ridges running along the car and a roof spoiler can be seen above the rear window.
The rear end features a large compartment door with a small extension below the window, bearing the silver lettering displaying the manufacturer name. The central area features a small space for the license plate and two black details on either side. A set of vertical lamps can be seen next to the compartment door, while the lower area features a vent similar to the front duct, with reverse light strips on it. Below it, a black diffuser and chrome dual exit exhaust tubes can be seen.
The Huntley S uses the "Feroci" dials and interior, and it is shared with vehicles like the Habanero and the Serrano .
Most of the car's body is painted with a primary colour, while the front portion, grille/hood area, integrated side steps, side stripes passing over the door handles and above the tail lamps, and the roof and spoiler are painted in a secondary colour. The stock rims appear to resemble the "Split Ten" high-end rims available in Los Santos Customs , sharing the circular portion behind the spokes. However, one difference is that the centre part of the wheel is surrounded by small mouldings created by the spokes.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Huntley S is one of the fastest SUVs in the game. Its handling is average among the SUV class, being similar to the Rocoto as well as others, but still being beaten by the Radius . Even though it posses one of the highest acceleration times in its class, and one of the best top speeds among any 4-door SUV, the Huntley S is still slower accelerating than the Baller , and the Serrano and Radius are still the fastest in the SUV class. Therefore, the Huntley S gets highly rewarded by the customization available at Los Santos Customs, due of the acceleration based upgrades. It is also highly durable and can resist a lot of shots and collision damage, especially with armor fitted at Los Santos Customs .
Unlike the previous Huntley and Huntley Sport , the Huntley S does not handle very well off-road, as it is primarily designed for luxury transport and smooth driving.
The SUV is powered by what is stated to be a high-revving V6, although it has an Inline-4, fitted with a modeled Turbocharger by default (similar to the Seminole , Habanero and Dubsta 6x6 ). Note this will not effect performance, and is purely cosmetic, unless the player purchases a Turbo modification at Los Santos Customs.
Grand Theft Auto V
Pre-release screenshot of the Huntley S .
A Huntley S spawning outside Los Santos Customs in the enhanced version .
An NPC -modified Huntley S in the enhanced edition. ( rear quarter view )
An NPC-modified Huntley S spawned in Vinewood Hills .
The aforementioned Huntley S . ( Rear quarter view )
The Huntley S on Legendary Motorsport in the enhanced version.
Grand Theft Auto Online
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Mesa may refer to various vehicles and locations appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Patriot is a recurring four-door SUV (formerly a military vehicle) that has appeared in almost every Grand Theft Auto games since Grand Theft Auto III . It is manufactured by Mammoth in the HD Universe .
In general, the Patriot is depicted as a large SUV, employed by both the military and civilians , meant to parody the Hummer lineup, as well as its military counterpart, the AM General HMMWV .
In Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , the Patriot resembles a Hummer H1 , while in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Patriot resembles an unarmed AM General HMMWV .
In the HD Universe, the Patriot is based on the GMT800 2003–2006 Hummer H2 , with minor alterations such as the tail lights, and no spare tire on the trunk; the grille design is similar to that of a 1987–1990 Dodge Caravan .
In Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , the Patriot is popular as a civilian SUV, often found in Portland and Staunton Island . Patriots come with heavy-duty bumper defenses and may spawn with four different bed configurations: Standard, with roll bars, with a small bed cover and a large bed cover. The vehicle is seen in a variety of primary colors, with secondary-colored defenses, handles, roll bars and window trim (set to different shades of grey).
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Patriot is reserved for the military . The design of the Patriot undergoes only minor cosmetic changes compared to the GTA III model, being the side steps, horizontal door handles and amber lights on the rear bumper. The GTA San Andreas rendition, however, features significant modifications on the body which present the Patriot as a more rugged, off-road vehicle, with a shortened truck bed, slanting A and C pillars, a vehicle snorkel (which unfortunately does not allow the truck to wade in water), and redesigned front and rear fascia.
The military variants of the Patriot are exclusively painted military green in GTA Vice City and GTA Vice City Stories and beige (desert camouflage) in GTA San Andreas , with black bumpers and details; the GTA Vice City Stories variant also features a five-pointed star on the hood lid, denoting its association with the United States' armed forces.
During development , the Patriot in GTA III was previously known as the "Hum Vee", after the HMMWV's "Humvee" nickname. The Hum Vee differs from the Patriot in its particularly low ground clearance, and in the front of the vehicle being more similar to the real-life Humvees.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , the Patriot, adopting the Mammoth brand, is now designed as a luxury SUV. The Patriot retains the general appearance from the 3D Universe iterations, but depicted with a slightly more luxurious SUV used by civilians. The front end of the vehicle is relatively small, with a flat grille on the center and square lamps on the outer sides, over a silver portion of the car. The lower side is protected by a small bumper with an angled guard, holding the license plate. The front is part of a single compartment that opens forwards, featuring two intakes on the hood area, near the windshield.
The sides denote its modernized appearance, with flared arches and bottom side. A set of side steps can be seen, together with a single exhaust on the driver side. The vehicle also makes use of black, plastic-like door handles and rear-view mirror shells, as well as square-shaped windows, where the ones on rear compartment are tinted. The roof makes use of silver trim on either side and three marker lights on the center, over the windshield and the rear windows.
On the rear, a single compartment door can be seen holding the license plate, just between the vertical tail lights. A large plastic rear bumper protects the rear end, with a "MAMMOTH" texturing on it.
Patriots may spawn with certain accessories, including a bullbar on the front and a set of non-functional spotlights. By default, it comes with step sides, but some variants may have side exhaust pipes. The vehicle is normally depicted with single colors on the bodywork, although most of them can be seen with an American flag vinyl decal on the side. It uses large seven-spoke rims with low-profile tires, most likely custom wheels since an off-road vehicle is usually equipped with small rims and high-profile off-road tires.
The Patriot is depicted with two different design, depending of the platform:
The Patriot in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online has an identical exterior design to the Patriot featured in GTA IV , and retains most of the modification parts, although the American flag decal is absent completely.
The Patriot can assign a secondary color, which is applied on the door handles, while the primary color affects the interior stitching. The vehicle gains an updated rim design, which is similar to the "Supernova" SUV rims found in Los Santos Customs .
After the After Hours update, the Patriot was changed. The vehicle has received numerous model changes, including an entirely new engine. The front and rear lights have received new light textures and the rear lights have been reorganized. After the continuation of the After Hours update, the vehicle is able to have numerous modifications applied, including a non-functional roof light bar, along with Gunrunning liveries, albeit only available in GTA Online .
The 3D Universe Patriot has medium top speed, due to its heavy weight. It is very durable, and has outstanding off-road capabilities, mainly because of high ground clearance, unusual width, and suspension. It can climb very steep gradients due to its standard low-range gearbox, and does not roll, due to the low center of gravity. Because of the low-end torque and acceleration, its engine seems large, especially in first and second gear, and is quite quick for such a large, heavy truck. It is widely assumed that the Patriot has a high-displacement V8. Although it is powerful, caution should be used when driving over vehicles as the Patriot has a tendency to roll over and catch fire. It should also be noted that the Patriot has bulletproof windshields, like the Securicar .
The Patriot in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is powered by a high-output V8, which is capable of powering the large, heavy vehicle up to very high speeds. Acceleration is average, but handling is remarkably sharp for a vehicle of its size and weight. Its low center of gravity and wide frame make it less susceptible to rollovers, and thanks to its 4WD drivetrain, it is able to traverse uneven terrain with ease. Durability is excellent, and is as expected from an armored vehicle.
In Grand Theft Auto IV , the Patriot has relatively impressive performance. As well as being a full off-road vehicle with endless capabilities, it is also very well performing on-road. Its acceleration is surprisingly impressive for a vehicle of its size; its weight being the only issue that contends with this acceleration. Its top speed is not too impressive, but still surpasses several other off-road 4x4 vehicles. In terms of handling, the vehicles turn radius is rather large and therefore cornering does not seem to be much of a problem for the Patriot. Durability is very high for this vehicle, further improved on the NOOSE Patriot – its police variant. It can withstand a large amount of gunfire and does not explode within one shot of an RPG unless it directly hits the underside or engine bay of the vehicle. The vehicle's suspension is rather poor in that the vehicle bounces around a large amount, but due to its off-road capabilities, this is vital, though on road is compromises its steering capabilities as it tends to role in high cornering. Its ramming power is on par with some large trucks, including the Enforcer ; it has a large amount of power to push other vehicles out of the way, which is very useful combined with its weight.
The Patriot appears to be powered by a V8 engine, judging by the cover, coupled in a 4-speed gearbox in a front engine, all wheel drive layout. Its engine sound is shared with that of the Voodoo .
In Grand Theft Auto V , the Patriot returns as more of an on-road vehicle than an off-road. While the AWD layout remains the same and seems appropriate for off-roading, the major alteration is the suspension, which is now highly stiffened and therefore does not seem fitting for off-road (rock climbing, for example, proves a problem in some instances, as the vehicle tends to become stuck or rolls over). The top speed seems to be higher, and acceleration is further improved. Due to GTA V 's revamped physics, its turning radius is now dramatically reduced, but thanks to the suspension fixes, vehicle roll around high cornering is no longer present. Durability is not altered too much, however the slight reduction in weight and power means the vehicle is less capable of ramming other vehicles off the road with ease, compared to its GTA IV appearance.
Originally, the Patriot had the same transversely-mounted V8 cover from its previous iteration. After the update mentioned above, it now has a longitudinally-mounted double-cam Inline-4 with throttle bodies on the intake manifold, to match with the engine model from its stretch variant .
F4 F4 Front engine, all wheel drive V8 (Cover)
F4 F4 Front engine, all wheel drive DOHC DOHC Double Overhead Camshaft Inline-4 w/ 4 throttle bodies (In-game model)
A NOOSE Patriot in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A Patriot Stretch in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A red Patriot in Grand Theft Auto IV .
Playboy X 's Patriot in Grand Theft Auto IV .
The Stevie's Car Thefts Patriot in Grand Theft Auto IV .
A dark grey Patriot in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
A Hustlers Patriot in Grand Theft Auto IV .
As of the After Hours update for Grand Theft Auto Online , the Patriot received several new modifications, not available in story mode.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The "Hum Vee", an earlier rendition of the Patriot in Grand Theft Auto III prior to the game's release.
Patriot in the mobile version of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
Side view of the Patriot in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
A Patriot with stripes in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
A Patriot with a front bullbar and roof spotlights in Grand Theft Auto IV . ( Rear quarter view )
The Patriot in the PlayStation Portable version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Patriot in the Nintendo DS version of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars .
The Patriot on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Patriot in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
The Patriot before the After Hours update. ( Rear quarter view )
In GTA V , a unique military Patriot-based ATV is seen on a Warstock Cache & Carry advertisement. It cannot be found anywhere in the game.
The Patriot -based Squaddie.
Grand Theft Auto III
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , San Andreas and Vice City Stories
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories
Grand Theft Auto IV and its episodes
Grand Theft Auto IV
The Ballad of Gay Tony
Grand Theft Auto V
Grand Theft Auto Online
A Bloodhound Patriot in Manhunt 2 . ( Rear quarter view )
A papercraft model of the Patriot , available for download on the Rockstar Games Social Club website.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Obey Rocoto is a four-door mid-size luxury crossover SUV featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Rocoto is a luxury crossover SUV which inherits the role previously slotted by the Rebla from Grand Theft Auto IV . The SUV's design appears to be inspired by the German styling of both the first and second generation of the Porsche Cayenne , with a size similar to the Audi Q5 . The headlights and tail lights are found from those of a second generation Volkswagen Touareg .
The Rocoto is depicted with a rather large body with ample room for the occupants. At the base of the front, the SUV features a black section with a rectangular mesh intake on the centre, which spans about one-third of its width. Slightly above this black section, the front is made up of a trapezium-shaped main grille with four plastic horizontal elements over the mesh pattern, as well as rhomboid-shaped outer intakes with two plastic horizontal elements and a coloured middle separation that houses modern strips. On the upper area, the centre is occupied by a smaller rectangular grille with a mesh pattern and plastic trim around it, while the outer portions are occupied by inset housings with silver trim around, where each housing has dual circular headlamps and triangle-shaped amber signals, as well as silver details around each unit. The bonnet is made up of curved lines starting from the inner sides of the headlamp housings and reaching towards the base of the windscreen, together with inner lines parallel to the main ones.
On the sides, the SUV has slightly wider formations around the wheel arches and lower sides, along with black details around the same arches and skirting area. On the cabin area, the SUV makes use of silver trim around the windows and black inner pillars, while the front doors mount rounded mirror shells near the A-pillars, with the lower halves finished in carbon fibre and supported by black frames.
The rear of the SUV is predominated by the rear compartment door, which features a roof spoiler with two rectangular brake lamps over the rear window, while the lower half features a silver strip between the inner brake lamps on the middle, the Obey logo below the silver strip, the license plate on the centre of the lower area and two rectangular brake lamps beside the plate. The edges of the SUV bear additional lamps on the middle section, consisting of the outer turn signals and the inner main/reverse lamps. The lower area of the SUV consist of a vented section with dual-exit, dual exhaust tubes housed on the edges and a black bottom section. The interior is shared with the Cavalcade , using the same dial set in the enhanced version.
The Rocoto only has access to a single colour, which is applied on the bodywork and the upper halves of the mirror shells. It uses a set of rims similar to the "LozSpeed Ten" rims available in Los Santos Customs , wrapped in medium-profile tyres.
The Rocoto is a good alternative to the more popular SUVs in the game, the Dubsta and the second generation Baller . It has a great balance between off-road and on-road performance, with a stiffer ride and high-speed transmission that makes the vehicle more responsive and able to reach a high top speed, while the AWD layout maximizes the potential for the SUV's terrain visits. On the other hand, acceleration is somewhat average and its braking is among the worst in its class, and the ability to resist damage is poor, as after a few hard-on collisions, it is somewhat common for one of the front wheels to camber and jam into the fenders.
The Rocoto has a V8 engine with a 5-speed gearbox, powering all four wheels (with 40% of the engine power delivered to the front wheels and the rest of it to the rear). The engine sound is seemingly low powered, but somewhat high-revving with relatively smooth timing, which is also shared with the Prairie .
A dark red Rocoto can be found in the Random Event - Car Theft 2 , where it is stolen and the player has the option to retrieve it to its owner . It features an array of cosmetic and performance modifications [ 1 ] .
Saeeda Kadam 's Rocoto from Random Events . ( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Rocoto in GTA V . ( Rear quarter view )
The Rocoto on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Sanchez is a dirtbike appearing in almost every GTA title since Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , and due to appear in Grand Theft Auto VI . It is manufactured by Maibatsu in the HD Universe .
The Sanchez remains relatively unchanged in every game it appears in, having the same dirt-bike chassis design, off-road fittings and accessories, along with relatively similar performances. While not particularly fast compared to sport bikes such as the PCJ 600 , the soft suspension, high ground clearance and very light weight makes it useful for stunt biking and off-road applications. They can be found on the streets of suburban or rural areas, and they are also sometimes used in the stadium(s) in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , as part of side-missions.
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the Sanchez assumes the design of an older dirtbike model, possibly an early 80s Yamaha XT/Honda XL. It uses long telescopic forks , a long mudguard below the lower triple clamp and a round headlight, together with small handlebars with a reinforced frame on the center. The main body features a small protective body frame, a small fuel tank and a black seat, while the engine features a protruding exhaust pipe on the right side. The rear area features a long rear fender with small side covers, along with a red rectangular tail light on the end of the fender and the exhaust muffler below it. The rear wheel is supported by a dual-side swingarm, along with a visible chain drive and sprockets. All renditions spawn in a single colour.
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , the Sanchez assumes a more modernized appearance, possibly based on a Honda CRM 250/Yamaha DT 200. This version is largely identical to the GTA Vice City model, but incorporates an upside-down fork and a square-shaped front fairing with a rectangular headlight. The main body appears to feature additional body panels partially covering the engine bay and a longer seat, while the engine features a more detailed texture. The rear fender has larger side covers and the swingarm features a suspension spring. Again, the whole bike spawns in a single colour, with additional grey textures over the front fairing and the side covers.
It should be noted that all renditions use wire rims and medium-profile tires with knobby treads, although the GTA San Andreas rendition assumes a smoother shape on the wheels.
The design and frame of the bike in Grand Theft Auto IV are updated to look more like a later 2000s Japanese dirt bike, such as the 2006-2009 Yamaha YZ450F, 2007 Kawasaki KX450F and the 2007 Honda CRF450X (indicated by the GP-450 markings on the rear side covers).
The Sanchez is mostly similar to the GTA San Andreas model, retaining most of the distinctive features. However, the vehicle assumes an hexagon-shaped front fairing, different side engine covers, a lower cover for protection of the engine bay, covered front transmission sprocket, wider rear side covers and a smaller tail light mounted below the end of the rear fender. The exhaust pipe appears to have carbon-fiber section on the engine bay and the muffler, while the seat bears manufacturer badges on the rear edge. The bike is also decorated with green "Sanchez" markings on the sides, another green marking on the central handlebar frame and brown details on the sides, along with Terroil decals on the front fork legs and the aforementioned "GP-450" markings on the rear side covers.
The bike is prominently painted in a primary colour, with the front fork legs, part of the front fairing, the grilled parts over the intercooler and the rear side covers painted in a secondary colour. Again, it uses a set of black wire rims with medium-profile tires and knobby treads.
The Sanchez in Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars seems to assume a similar design to the one in GTA San Andreas and GTA IV , but lacks any sort of fairing. The bike can be seen in a variety of colours, but lacks any livery.
The Sanchez returns in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online and appears to be unchanged from GTA IV , but adds two long frames over the swingarm intended for the passenger's foot pegs. Some changes were made to the livery, where the fork legs are permanently white and bears Terroil and Auto Cowboys markings, while the front fairing has a permanent white square above the light and a white "Sanchez" marking below it. The central frame on the handlebars bear a "Maibatsu" marking on the front and the sides appear to use a slightly worn-out livery, consisting of a black paint with yellow "Sanchez" and "GP-450" markings on it. The rear side covers are also permanently white and bear "Maibatsu" markings at the bottom.
Colour distribution is drastically changed, where the primary colour is applied on both fenders and the Maibatsu marking on the central frame of the handlebars, while the secondary colour is applied on the front fairing, the grilled parts over the intercooler, the outlines of the rear side covers and the markings on the front fork legs and the bottom of the rear side covers. The bike retains the same wheel model as in GTA IV , appearing to be a derivative of the "Wires" rims available in Los Santos Customs .
The Sanchez is, handling-wise, excellent, having a great turning cycle, allowing excellent maneuverability.
Judging by the engine model it is likely powered by a single-cylinder engine, with a rather loud and weak engine sound. It is coupled to a five-speed gearbox, and weighs an average curb weight of 500kg.
115 / 185 ( GTA Liberty City Stories & GTA Vice City Stories )
The Sanchez has decent acceleration and top speed for a vehicle of its stature. It lacks the power of higher end motorcycles, yet is notably lighter and easier to control in unfavorable circumstances. Off-road, the Sanchez is one of the best motorcycles for off-roading, experiencing next to no loss in speed or control when heading off-road. The Sanchez is also a notably good wheelie-ing motorcycle, and benefits strongly from wheelies for speed at higher speeds. However, the motorcycle is notably fragile, taking only a few direct hits before being disabled.
While the Sanchez is a fairly bad choice for racing in the Motorcycles class, the Sanchez is a generally very good choice for racing in the Off-roads class. One has to be careful to avoid hitting anything which may knock them off. However, the Sanchez may not be able to compete on courses which have large jumps, as the motorcycle may be unable to finish courses while other vehicles would be able to finish without issue.
The Sanchez is powered by a single-cylinder engine with a displacement of about 450cc (given the "450" marking on the sides), coupled to a 4-speed gearbox. Its engine sound is loud and idle revs are relatively low (being the stereotypical one of an underbone motorcycle). It is also the only bike in the game that uses a kickstart animation upon aboarding the bike, even though when turning the engine over an electric starter motor can be heard.
The data of the Sanchez remains unchanged, bearing an identical top speed and acceleration rate. However, due to the alterations to handling in GTA V , the Sanchez is even more agile, and cornering is superb. Pulling wheelies also takes less effort, albeit with more risk of pulling a wheelie too quickly upon set-off, risking the player falling off. The Sanchez can climb near-vertical hills, although the more vertical the player goes, the slower the Sanchez will perform.
Again, the Sanchez is powered by a single-cylinder engine with a displacement of about 450cc and coupled to a four-speed gearbox. The engine sound is similar to the one in GTA IV , albeit with a higher-revving and smoother tone.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A Sanchez in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A group of racers in Sanchez bikes in a pre-release screenshot.
Franklin jumping off a dirt ramp in a Sanchez .
The Sanchez on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Sanchez on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Sanchez on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Sanchez in the cinematic preview on GTA V Rockstar Games Social Club.
The Sanchez in the cinematic preview on GTA Online Rockstar Games Social Club.
A group of Sanchezes in the first trailer .
A group of Sanchezes crossing a Vice City intersection in the first trailer.
There is a version of the Sanchez which, as the name suggest, uses a sponsor livery in place of the default respray colours, giving it the look of a competition bike.
The Manchez , first featured in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , serves as an improved variant of the Sanchez with a rugged exterior and superior performance. It returns to Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Bikers update.
A black Sanchez in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City . ( Rear quarter view ).
A black Sanchez in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Shitzu Hakuchou (Japanese: 白鳥 ; English: Swan ) is a sports bike featured in The Lost and Damned , The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto V , and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Last Team Standing Update .
The Hakuchou is mainly based on the second-generation Suzuki Hayabusa , while the headlights and rear seats appear to be inspired by those of the 1996–2007 Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird . The Hakuchou also features the Kanji letter 死 (meaning "death" in Japanese) on both sides of the body, in a similar manner to the Hayabusa's Kanji lettering 隼.
Described as "a grand tourer to top them all" with "wind tunnel developed bodywork", the Hakuchou is distinguished by its more aerodynamic profile compared to the Bati 800 and the Double T , where the front section features a large front mudguard attached to the fork legs, while the upper area is occupied by the front fairing with a triangle-shaped headlamps, "SHITZU" marking above the lamp and a long glass visor. The portions beside the centre are occupied by thin vertical intakes next to the mudguards, triangular amber indicators and triangular mirror wings on top of the fairing. The area inside the fairing is mostly finished in carbon fibre and houses two analogue dials, while the upper clamp/plate holds two independent handlebars.
On the main body, the engine bay is mostly covered by the fairing, having an open frontal section, side exit vents, carbon-fibre upper surfaces and side markings displaying the bike's name, followed by a silver/chrome basic frame. The fuel tank is relatively large and has a circular cap on top, as well as side markings displaying the manufacturer name.
The rear area is occupied by a black seat with room for two occupants, a small red tail lamp on the rear end and a plate holder below, with the corresponding license plate and amber indicators. The rear wheel is connected to the rest of the bike by a dual-sided swing-arm finished in silver/chrome, having a single suspension spring and the corresponding chain drive and sprocket on the left. There are foot pegs for both occupants and silver/chrome exhaust tubes with carbon-fibre finish on the wide portions.
The bike is mostly painted with a primary colour on the front mudguard, fairing, mirror wings, fuel tank and rear section, while the secondary colour is applied on the frontal portion of the fairing, in the form of dual stripes on the sides, the lower fairing and the rims. It uses five-spoke dual rims and medium-profile tyres, with the rear one being wider.
The Hakuchou returns with the same design as the Episodes from Liberty City rendition, albeit with updated light textures. In the enhanced version, it uses the same "Sports Bike" dial set as motorcycles such as the PCJ-600 and the Akuma .
Colour distribution is the same, where the primary colour is applied on the front mudguard, fairing, mirror wings, fuel tank and rear section, while the secondary colour is applied on the frontal portion of the fairing, in the form of dual stripes on the sides, the lower fairing and the rims. Even though files list the bike with either default alloy or red wheel colour, they are not applied on the rims at all due to the secondary paint, and will only be shown on custom rims. It also retains the same five-spoke dual rim design.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Hakuchou is a very well performing motorcycle with excellent speed and acceleration. The bike immediately gains speed thanks to its powerful engine, and good traction results in no loss of control when accelerating in a straight line. The bike leans very well thanks to its light weight, but tends to lose control when cornering at high speeds. The bike is also very good at "drifting", somewhat too much, causing the bike to lose control. Although the turning radius is quite high, it still manages to oversteer, and cornering into 2-lane roads often requires the player to slow the bike down significantly to avoid this oversteer.
The Hakuchou is stated by the Uptown Riders website to use a 1300cc (1.3L) engine pushing 200bph, yet the in-game model is not very clear to define. It sports a 5-speed gearbox and a high-revving engine, appearing to be a higher-pitched and heavily edited variation of the one used on the PCJ-600 .
The Hakuchou is a power-house motorcycle with a beefy body shell that contains a strong, powerful engine. It is more powerful than the Bati 801 , and bears a longer wheelbase compared to other sport bikes. The bike can, however, be misleading for inexperienced drivers, as its steadiness and bulkiness implies superior crash resistance compared to other bikes, when in fact it is the same as some much lighter ones.
While the Hakuchou's acceleration is unremarkable without upgrades, its top speed is one of the its most defining traits, being able to keep up with the Akuma and outrun the Bati 801 on the straights. The Hakuchou's top speed can be boosted even further by its excellent ability to perform wheelies at top speed, increasing its already impressive velocity by a noticeable margin. The handling is, however, the Achilles' heel of this motorcycle, as its long wheelbase means that the Hakuchou possesses a wide turning circle and, when combined with its 250 kg weight, leaves a lot to be desired in terms of response when turning. As such, the Hakuchou is a good choice for someone that values speed over handling, or for highway riding because of its straight line power.
While one is able to go considerably faster than normal top speed while doing a wheelie, one can also push forward on the left thumb stick (controller), also known as "Leaning Forward," which also greatly increases acceleration. However, while leaning forward on the Hakuchou, it is more difficult to make minor steering adjustments.
Again, the Hakuchou sports an engine whose model is not clear to define, and is coupled to a 6-speed gearbox. It uses the same engine sound as the Akuma and the Double T .
A pre-release screenshot showing Luis Lopez escaping on a Hakuchou .
The Hakuchou on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Event week screenshot.
The Hakuchou Drag in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Bati 801 ( TLAD ; Badging and Uptown Riders website and GTA V )
The Pegassi Bati 801 (formerly named " Bati 800 ") is a sports bike featured in The Lost and Damned , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The design of the Bati 801 draws heavily from the Ducati 848 and Ducati 1098 , with the tail fairing and seat bearing a resemblance to those of the Ducati Desmosedici RR , but it maintains the tail lights of the 848/1098 and lacks the top-exit exhausts. The lower fairing seems to have taken inspiration from the MV Agusta F4 , while the exhausts appear to be influenced by the BMW HP2 Sport .
The Bati 800 is depicted as an upmarket sports bike with similar traits to the NRG 900 . The front section has a carbon-fibre fender/mudguard mounted directly to the forks, while the upper area features a long fairing with dual intakes and a set of headlamps. The upper section of the fairing is curved and houses a triangle-shaped glass on the centre and black mirror wings on top, while the area behind it is mostly finished in carbon fibre and has analog dials. The upper clamp/plate has two independent handlebars.
The sides of the bike are distinguished by its bulky fairing that includes the upper front section, having dual exit vents on either side and a carbon-fibre lower fairing with smaller vents on the rear, as well as silver lettering displaying the name and the manufacturer of the bike. The fuel tank is rather large and also bears silver lettering displaying the manufacturer, while black foot pegs are seen on the rear portion, intended for the rider.
The rear section features a black seat for the rider, two side intakes on the rearmost portion and additional foot pegs for the passenger, while the rear end has dual red tail lamps, dual exhaust pipes partially wrapped by a carbon-fibre section, and a black plate holder with the license plate and the two turn signals. The rear wheel is connected by a single-sided swing-arm with a carbon-fibre mudguard and a single suspension spring, along with the corresponding chain drive and sprocket on the left side.
The bike is painted with a primary colour on the bodywork and the outer surrounding of the rims, while the secondary colour is applied on the portion of the front fairing around the glass, in the form of wide stripes on the sides and the portions housing the rear intakes. It uses unique 7-spoke black rims, wrapped in medium-profile tyres.
The Bati 800 appears again unchanged in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , albeit named Bati 801 , which matches with the badges. In the enhanced verstion, it gains a restored "Sports Bike" analog dial set, also shared with the PCJ-600 and the Akuma . The Bati uses PCJ-600 light textures.
Colour distribution is more or less identical, but the outer surroundings of the rims are painted with the wheel colour, which can be painted by selecting a custom rear wheel, applying a colour and change back to the stock wheel (as it won't reset to the default alloy colour). It retains the same 7-spoke rim design similar to the "Racer" rims available in Los Santos Customs , albeit finished in a silver/alloy colour. The aforementioned "Racer" rims, however, are finished in black, being identical to the original ones from TLAD .
Even as its performance and light body weight is considerably good and already ranks above nearly all choppers in TLAD , the Bati 800 is at the lower-end of the high-end bikes, with the slowest acceleration and top speed. However, the bike's lower engine power is a blessing in disguise; it gives the bike better stability during accelerations and cornering, and minimizes excess burnouts and spinouts.
The Bati 800 is stated to be powered by a 1000cc, liquid-cooled 4-cylinder engine, which is somewhat reflected by the exhaust manifold. Oddly, the Bati 800 is stated in the website to have a 6-speed gearbox, yet the game files and in-game testing prove that the vehicle only bears 5 gears. The bike shares the low-pitched and mid-revving engine sound from the NRG 900 .
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the Bati 801 is one the fastest bikes in the game. With its excellent acceleration and good handling, it is a very stable and nimble bike. One should be careful with the Bati 801, as its light body can often result in being launched or even wasted when encountering bumpy terrain. As of Update 1.16, it was outpaced by the Hakuchou , but still makes up for its better acceleration. Compared to the similarly priced Double T , the Bati 801 feels slower, but it is more stable and more user friendly to operate, making it an ideal sportsbike for beginners. Southern San Andreas Super Autos states that it can reach "80 in 2.3 seconds" without specifying whether this is kph or mph. Using the enhanced version's speedometer, it can be proven that unmodded the bike does reach approximately 80 kph in that time.
The Bati 801 has a rather low-pitch engine tone compared to other performance motorcycles, which is shared with the Bati 801RR and the Thrust .
The Bati 801RR (formerly " Bati Custom ") is a variant of the Bati 801 with liveries. It shares a similar performance.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Official screenshot.
Official screenshot 2.
A Bati 801 in the original version of GTA V . ( Rear quarter view ).
The Bati 801 on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The Lost and Damned
Grand Theft Auto V
Grand Theft Auto Online
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Dinka Akuma (Japanese: 悪魔 ; English: Devil or Demon ) is a motorcycle featured in the downloadable episodic pack The Ballad of Gay Tony for Grand Theft Auto IV , Grand Theft Auto V , and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Akuma is mainly based on the Buell XB12S , though it features a tubular frame, much like that of a Ducati Streetfighter or Triumph Speed Triple .
The Akuma appears to be a streetfighter variant of the Double T , sharing a lot of design cues. However, it has dual exposed headlamps and independent handlebars on the upper plate. The main body is mostly exposed and features a tubular frame and lower fairing on the engine bay, while the fuel tank appears to be similar to that of the Double T, albeit with carbon-fibre sections. The rear section is more or less identical, but features a dual-sided swing-arm with a single suspension spring, as well as the corresponding chain drive and sprocket on the left.
The bike features various extras and variations, which are:
The bike spawns in a variety of primary colours for the fuel tank and framed seats, as well as secondary colours for the tubular frame and rims. It uses the same wheel design as the Double T, being 6-spoke split rims with medium-profile tyres, with the rear one being wider.
The bike returns to Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online with almost the exact same design. However, the seat extras are no longer present, and only the exhaust options can be changed through a mod shop. In the enhanced version, the bike adds a small "Sports Bike" dial set, also used on motorcycles such as the PCJ-600 and Bati 801 .
Colour distribution is more or less similar, where the primary colour is applied on the body, while the secondary colour is applied on the tubular frame. The rims have a dedicated wheel colour, which can be painted by selecting a custom rear wheel, applying a colour and change back to the stock wheel (as it won't reset to the default alloy colour), though with a darker tint/shade. It retains the same 6-spoke split rim design as its previous iteration and the Double T, being similar to the "Speedway" rims available in Los Santos Customs .
The Akuma is powered by a 4-cylinder engine coupled to a 5-speed transmission. This bike features a lightweight construction and has a relatively short wheelbase, making it ideal for city-streets getaways, and a good bike to use in trying to get the achievement/trophy Wheelie Rider . This short wheelbase, however, also means that it has a stability problem, which riders can feel when taking it on a high-speed corner. Acceleration is very impressive, but the brakes are not good enough to keep up with the speed.
The Akuma is one of the fastest motorcycles in the GTA IV trilogy so far, the fastest being the Double T Custom from The Lost and Damned . It shares the same high-revving engine sound from the Double T and its Custom variant.
The Akuma is the fastest accelerating vehicle in the game and maxes out the acceleration stat before modifications are applied to it. Its top speed is fast without leaning forward, but unfortunately, the Akuma is unable to wheelie at top speed, reducing its effectiveness on long straights where motorcycles which can wheelie will fly ahead of the Akuma. The corners are where the Akuma excels by leaps in bounds, having one of the tightest cornering radii among vehicles, and is able to continually accelerate through corners, making it effective on races where there are fewer straights and more corners.
The Akuma's incredible cornering abilities and acceleration make it a very easy vehicle to use effectively, but that comes at the cost of a very low skill cap. As such, the Akuma is a very good choice for those inexperienced with motorcycles, but more skilled players would gravitate towards motorcycles such as the Hakuchou or Bati 801 which are more effective in skilled hands than the Akuma.
Because of the Akuma's immense acceleration and cornering abilities, the Akuma is a solid motorcycle for racing. Its inability to wheelie is a major issue on longer tracks, but it serves to be a true contender on more technical circuits.
Again, the bike is powered by a 4-cylinder engine and coupled to a five-speed gearbox. The engine sound is the same one from the Double T, which is rather low-revving compared to the one on motorcycles such as the PCJ 600 and the Vader , but emits an additional muffled tone heard on higher engine revolutions.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
An Akuma in The Ballad of Gay Tony with no fenders, no mirrors, no fairing and long framed seat with underseat exhausts.
An Akuma in the original version of Grand Theft Auto V . ( Rear quarter view )
An Akuma with no front fairing and rear-view mirrors in Grand Theft Auto V .
The Akuma on Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
Unused billboard advertisement in Grand Theft Auto V .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Faggio is a compact scooter appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
The Jobuilt P-996 LAZER is a military fighter jet featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . It is the second military jet available in the Grand Theft Auto series, the first being the Hydra in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
The design of the P-996 LAZER is mainly derived from the F-16C Fighting Falcon , evidenced by the entire fuselage, from the nose to the rear, with the two rear downward vertical tail fins, cockpit (with side-mounted control stick), landing gears (main and nose) and wings. The air intake is also derived from the aforementioned aircraft, albeit split into two separate intakes, similar to a Eurofighter Typhoon . Its forward swinging canopy (with zig zag canopy detonation cord), twin vertical stabilizers and horizontal stabilizers are derived from the Lockheed Martin F-35 and X-35 . Unlike the F-16, which has only one cannon mounted on the port side, the P-996 LAZER has dual cannons on each side, similar to fighter jets such as the F-20 Tigershark . The Lazer is depicted as carrier-capable, which could possibly be a homage to the Vought model 1600, the carrier-capable version of the F-16. The twin tails are similar to one of the YF-16 lightweight fighter prototype proposals (Model 401F & Model 786) and mostly the Hawker Siddeley HS.1202 , a British "F-16" concept.
The P-996 Lazer assumes a very aerodynamic design, where the frontal section consists of a sharp nose with an air data probe on the end, a long glass canopy that swings forward, and dual intakes below, while the lower area has a single hatch for the nose landing undercarriage. The middle section consists of large triangular-shaped wings with the corresponding ailerons on the rear, air brake flaps ahead of the ailerons, and large mounting pylons below and on the tips of the wings, while the lower area has dual hatches for the main landing undercarriage and what looks like an additional mounting pylon in the center, together with two external fuel tanks on the innermost wing pylons. The rear/tail area has triangular-shaped stabilators , large vertical stabilizers with a slightly angled position, and a single black jet turbine, while the lower area has small fins.
The interior of the jet has a rather compact flight instrument panel, using various dials and gauges around the lower area, a large console with numerous switches, and two control sticks on each side of the cockpit, which the character uses when piloting the jet. In the enhanced version, the jet uses a dedicated dial set, which is a derivative of the one used in helicopters such as the Maverick , the Police Maverick and the Annihilator , but adds green animated display screens around, the main dials in the center, and two "Gear Up/Down" displays on the right side.
The jet is only available in a light gray color with a subtle camouflage paint, similar to the two-tone ghost gray scheme worn by most naval fighters. It also bears safety warnings near the cockpit canopy and a registration code on the tips of the vertical stabilizers, including a larger 996 number. It uses a set of industrial wheels similar to the ones from trucks such as the Benson , the Mule and the Phantom .
In terms of armament , the P-996 is equipped with dual cannons on each side of the canopy, and six radar-guided missiles on both wings appearing to be modeled after the AIM-120 AMRAAM , a common air-to-air missile fitted on several fighter jets, including those that inspired the Lazer (although it uses smaller rockets derived from the RPG ).
Being a fighter jet, the P-996 is an extremely fast aircraft with a top speed of 170 knots / 316 km/h while flying above 250 meters / 820 feet MSL and with the third highest acceleration (after the LF-22 Starling and the Besra ). In addition to that, it has excellent maneuverability, and is extremely responsive and able to quickly pitch and roll; however, rudder handling is poor, as it takes 37.5 seconds to perform a horizontal loop by only yawing. Add to that a short take-off and landing distance and the P-996 is an ideal aircraft for traveling around San Andreas quickly and efficiently with little threat from opposing players, it also does not stall out during a vertical climb, whereas other aircraft will.
However, the P-996 can be lethal to the inexperienced. The fighter jet is sensitive to minor inputs to the ailerons and is very fragile, as the jet can be quickly disabled using a Minigun or a Heavy Sniper . The jet is very nose-heavy, and if the engines are not on the plane will quickly fall out of the sky, as the jet does not glide particularly well. It also frequently "wobbles" in flight due to turbulence and its small size, and thus requires minute corrections to its flight. On land, sharp turns can easily lean the jet to a side due to the narrow undercarriage setup, thus increasing the risk of the jet colliding with small obstacles and damaging it in the process.
By exiting the fighter jet mid-air, the player is ejected out of the cockpit just as pilots would be ejected in real fighter jets. They will be flung upwards considerably, preventing them from hitting the fuselage, unless at low speeds. However, the seat won't launch off the plane, and the player won't automatically earn a parachute unless he has one already, or the mission Predator has been completed.
The jet is powered by a single turbojet engine and is equipped with an afterburner , evidenced by the long trail left by the same turbine when applying full throttle. It emits a distinctive sound that becomes louder when the afterburner is active.
The P-996 is not as durable as every other airplane without armor upgrades, only being able to take two homing missiles or Heavy Sniper Mk II explosive rounds before being destroyed. A direct explosive hit to the plane's rear will usually blast away some of the P-996's control surfaces. While it is still possible to pilot the plane like this, the plane may lose the ability to maneuver along certain axes and the engine will usually have been damaged as well (indicated by the afterburner struggling to ignite or heavy smoke), and another hit to the plane will destroy the aircraft completely. The Railgun is also a major threat to the pilot, where a single shot can destroy it instantly.
The P-996 does not have any flares or other types of counter-measures against locked-on missiles that are fired at the jet, forcing the pilot to manually evade the missile.
15 15 HitLimbs modifier ( 24 24 (multiplayer) ) 22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default
500 (direct) 75 (edge)
1080 / 3543.3 (Weapon)
The grounded prop P-996 Lazer in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Upon being converted into a personal aircraft, the P-996 LAZER can be repainted with a primary color for the main fuselage, tail and wings of the aircraft, while the secondary color applies to the nose of the fuselage and the tips of the fuel tanks. The camo livery will be also removed, causing it to have a more uniform color.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A P-996 LAZER inside a hangar at Fort Zancudo .
Michael De Santa in the P-996 Lazer in Grand Theft Auto V and Online .
A P-996 Lazer flying close to the Cargo Plane , during the mission Minor Turbulence .
A P-996 Lazer destroying a helicopter.
A P-996 Lazer flying over Los Santos in the next generation version of Grand Theft Auto V .
Artwork of P-996 Lazers in a dogfight. Instead of two intakes, this one has only one. Also, it has a sniper pod under the intake, as well as F16-like tails. This makes the Lazer looks more like the F-16 Fighting Falcon , but still having twin stabilizers.
A member of the Air Force standing in front of the P-996 Lazer and the Besra for comparison.
Trevor inside a P-996 LAZER in Grand Theft Auto V .
Promotional image of the P-996 Lazer in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A P-996 LAZER during the mission Effin' Lazers in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Official screenshot in 2020.
The P-996 LAZER on Warstock Cache & Carry .
HUD icon in Air Quota .
Event week screenshot.
Discount on the P-996 LAZER for Independence Day 2025 .
Used in some Air Freight Cargo missions as enemy reinforcement:
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The B-11 Strikeforce is a military attack plane featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the After Hours update, released on August 7th, 2018, during the Dixon Residency Week event.
The B-11 Strikeforce is based on the Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II "Warthog" , with the tail design of the Northrop YA-9 , the aircraft prototype which was proposed as part of the design competition with Fairchild Republic's prototype A-10. Unlike the real-life iterations, the Strikeforce is depicted with an internal bomb bay.
The aircraft is depicted with a seemingly long and narrow fuselage, where the front consists of a rounded nose, a large cockpit with a canopy that pivots from the front, and the underside hatches for the nose landing gear that is offset to the right, along with what seems to be a laser spot tracker on the right side of the aircraft (which resembles an AN/AAS-35(V) Pave Penny that is also used on USAF attack & fighter-bomber aircraft, including the A-10).
Around the main section, the wings are mounted on the lower sides of the aircraft (low-wing setup) and have a mostly rectangular shape, featuring bulky sections with hatches for the main landing gear, two drop tanks on the sections between the fuselage and the main undercarriage, and eight weapon pylons on the outer sides of either wing. Around the outer halves of the wings, there are the corresponding ailerons and the air brakes in front of them.
The rear section consists of small underside hatches for the bomb bay, the tail boom that mounts the large engines, and the cruciform tail empennage, with the horizontal stabilizers slightly angled upwards. The interior of the cockpit uses the same "Lazer" dial set and interior as the P-996 LAZER , the Hydra and the Besra .
The aircraft is mostly painted with a primary color, with the wing tips, drop tanks and turbine spinners painted in a secondary color. It uses a set of plain industrial rims with details on the center, being the same as the ones from the Titan , the Hydra and the Savage .
The Strikeforce is armed with a Gatling-type autocannon mounted below the nose that resembles the GAU-8 Avenger (similar to its real-life counterpart, but centered to the aircraft instead of offset to the left), while the wings mount a set of two Hydra 70 barrage rocket pods on the inner pylons and six independent missiles on each of the remaining six pylons. It can also be modified with bombs.
The Strikeforce handles similarly to other jets, with an acceleration similar to the Hydra but with a lower max airspeed. Below 250 meters/820 feet, the aircraft only travels at 200 kph/108 knots, while above 250 meters/820 feet, it can reach 255.6 kph/137 knots. Despite its slow airspeed, the plane has very good maneuverability, with a very tight turning circle. It can turn tighter than the Pyro , making it a strong contender in a close dogfight. The aircraft also has very strong air brakes, making it easy to quickly slow down while still maintaining maneuverability. Similar to the V-65 Molotok , the Strikeforce's pilot can also hold the air brake for longer than normal, preventing the engines from shutting down as quickly. The aircraft also takes a slightly longer time for the engines to fully spin up and become operational when first starting the aircraft. On ground, the Strikeforce has greater stability than most jets, as sharp turns do not tip the vehicle as easily as aircraft with similar undercarriage setup. However, it has a tendency to lean backwards upon revving forward after reversing the aircraft at a considerable speed, or when climbing small slopes.
The Strikeforce is powered by two turbofan engines, whose turbines are fully animated. It emits a sound similar to most fighter jets, albeit with a clearer tone due to the lack of afterburners.
The Strikeforce is one of the most durable airplanes. It can withstand up to five homing missiles or standard explosions before being destroyed with the sixth. It can also survive a direct hit from the RPG . However, the Strikeforce's control surfaces are not resistant and will be broken off if caught in the splash damage of any explosion, likely making the aircraft uncontrollable.
Against the Heavy Sniper Mk II with explosive rounds, the B-11 can withstand only four hits, exploding on the fifth. This gives the pilot the ability time to eject or dive out of the sniper's line of sight. Just like other sources of explosive damage, the explosive rounds can knock off the control surfaces from the aircraft.
Against standard bullet damage, the B-11 is extremely resilient. With full armor upgrades, it will take about 72 rounds from the Heavy Sniper to completely destroy the aircraft. In addition to the high bullet damage resistance, if the aircraft is only damaged from one side, the aircraft will never explode. At least one bullet must hit the other side of the aircraft. Despite this, when heavily damaged like this the aircraft's engines will likely be smoking heavily, putting a time limit on the aircraft's lifespan.
The aircraft flies just fast enough to out-turn most homing missiles but will struggle to fly faster than very accurate missiles fired by the Chernobog or the Deluxo .
The vehicle can be fitted with countermeasures to improve its defensive capabilities against homing missiles, each one with their own attributes:
15 15 HitLimbs modifier ( 24 24 (multiplayer) ) 22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default
250 (direct) 50 (edge)
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Tail marking on the aircraft changes when applying different liveries:
When purchased, the B-11 Strikeforce comes painted in the following colors by default:
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Official advertisement poster for the B-11 Strikeforce .
The B-11 Strikeforce on Warstock Cache & Carry .
Close-up of the front.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
The black/white peace symbol on The Hog livery.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Mammoth Avenger is a tilt-rotor aircraft appearing in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Doomsday Heist update.
Like the Mobile Operations Center , the Avenger serves as a mobile transport for the player's personal Weaponized Vehicle, and it can be temporarily stored in the aircraft within the session (until the player switches session or leaves the game, which will simply reset the vehicle back to the garage where it was originally stored).
If the player has purchased the Gun Turret upgrades from the website and Facility workshop, up to three terminals are seen here, with the front one for the top turret, the left one for the nose turret and the rear one for the rear turret. This replaces some of the storage boxes scattered around the middle section of the cargo hold and adds additional seats for each gunner.
The optional Weapon Workshop gives the same functionality as the one from the Mobile Operations Center . It will be located near the vehicle storage area of the hold, next to where the rear turret terminal is located.
The Vehicle Workshop gives the same functionality as the one from the MOC. This adds various storage units within the walls of the vehicle storage area of the hold.
A CCTV monitor provides view of the aircraft's cockpit through a CCTV camera pointed over the pilot's right shoulder, which has limited horizontal movement. It is located around the middle section of the hold, next to where the left turret terminal is located.
A wardrobe can be seen near the secure door and is used in the same manner as any property-owned wardrobe. An "Armory" is also seen next to the secure door, which works the same as the Gun Locker from selected properties.
Added with the San Andreas Mercenaries update, the Operations Terminal upgrade adds a Los Santos Angels terminal between the jump seats and the rear turret terminal, which allows the owner to start the Project Overthrow mission strand and the LSA Operations jobs.
Also added with the San Andreas Mercenaries update, the Avenger Thruster upgrade adds a small station for the Thruster , opposite where the rear turret terminal and the weapon workshop are located (thus replacing the jump seats located in there). This allows an easier option to enter/exit the Avenger, even if it is in Autopilot mode. No customization is available, however, and will instead copy the same colors as the Avenger.
The Avenger is added to the player's Interaction Menu under the service section with the other vehicle properties such as the Galaxy Super Yacht and Mobile Operations Center . The vehicle is able to be called near* the player's location and dispatched back to facility storage on demand. The player could not immediately relocate an existing Avenger using the menu; they needed to return it to the facility and then re-call it to their current location. This was later changed in the San Andreas Mercenaries update, and players can relocate their existing Avenger should they be within a considerable distance.
*NOTE: The nearest point can still be half a mile away. Delivery will not be instantaneous like CEO and Biker deliveries.
The Avenger is a tilt-rotor aircraft largely based on the V-22 Osprey , but replacing the side doors with access ladders, as well as a narrower and higher upper section where the wings are rotated (also omitting the capability for the section to rotate 90 degrees for storage).
The aircraft is depicted with a very large fuselage, where the nose mounts a camera pod underneath and cameras/sensors on either side, followed by a large cockpit with two access ladders that operate in the same way as those from the Shamal and the Titan .
The main section of the fuselage consists of the cargo hold with small square windows on either side and bulky sections around the rear, while the top of the fuselage mounts the main wings with the corresponding ailerons and tilting engines fitted with three-bladed proprotors and rectangular exhausts. The proprotor blades also feature luminous tips on both surfaces, so when flown at night, they draw clearly visible circles of green light.
The rear of the aircraft has a ramp door that leads to the cargo hold, while the tail/empennage has a wide horizontal stabilizer and tall vertical stabilizers with the corresponding control surfaces, along with a single beacon light on top of the left stabilizer. The underside houses the tricycle landing undercarriage, although all wheels are functional components (unlike most aircraft where the inner wheels on the main gear are not solid).
The interior of the cockpit is spacious and uses a large instrument panel with the "Lazer" dial set from the P-996 LAZER , Hydra and Besra , and the "Gear Up/Down" displays on the left side, along with numerous screens, controls and switches on the windshield separation and above the cockpit area. Directly behind the seats, there is a marked door that leads to the cargo hold. There are numerous markings that denote its usage by the United States Marine Corps, under the squadron identifier "AVG-426".
The Avenger is mostly painted in a primary color for the fuselage, while the lower surfaces of the fuselage, wings and engines are painted in a secondary color. It uses a set of industrial wheels derived from trucks such as the Benson , Mule and Phantom .
The aircraft can be equipped with up to three cannon turrets, with the frontal one replacing the camera pod, as well as bombs. As of the San Andreas Mercenaries update, it can be further upgraded with two Minigun pods resembling 20mm M197 Vulcan gatling guns and homing missile pods.
The Avenger's cargo hold interior is large and is fitted with a CCTV monitor, various storage boxes, and other assets the player can purchase. There is a secure door at the front that leads to the cockpit, as well as a side door for the exit and the rear ramp door for players and selected Weaponized Vehicles . Like the Mobile Operations Center , a blue corona may appear in front of the cargo ramp door when stationary, and one can exit the vehicle or go into the cabin. Selected Weaponized Vehicles enter through the ramp door and are parked on the rearmost section of the hold.
Although the Avenger's hold has a seating capacity for three gunners and five jump seat passengers, the entire lobby (depending on the owner's accessibility permissions) are able to stand in the hold.
The Avenger performs almost identically to most medium-sized planes or helicopters, able to reach a decent speed, but has a rather sluggish handling and climb rate. The large proprotors can make it difficult to land on narrow areas, as well as on uneven terrain, as it will easily lose control if one of the props touches an obstacle. It is incredibly stable in flight (doubly so with a maxed Flight stat), barely being disturbed by any form of turbulence.
It is not possible to land in "normal" mode, only VTOL. Attempting to land while the proprotors are forward-facing will trigger an automatic transition to VTOL just as the proprotor blades touch the ground with the wheels deployed. Transitioning between forward thrust and VTOL modes can cause altitude fluctuations and abrupt altitude changes with the nose pitching up or down, so it is best conducted only after the aircraft has gained a few hundred feet altitude or enough forward motion to counter the stall.
The Avenger is powered by two turboshaft engines, which produce a sound similar to the Cargobob when idle. If the aircraft tilts forward or changes into forward thrusting, its pitch will change, sounding similarly to medium-sized, turboprop aircraft such as the Tula .
The Autopilot feature allows the player to leave the helicopter cockpit while in mid-air and access the hold and even leave the aircraft. Players can man one of the cannons while the aircraft is in autopilot mode. Leaving the aircraft in mid-air can be done on foot to parachute or in a vehicle stored in the hold. Special vehicles that can fly are able to transition into flight mode after exiting the hold, while the Stromberg and Toreador can transform into submarine mode and safely land in any body of water the Avenger is hovering over. The Avenger cannot easily be re-entered if left unmanned in autopilot, and must be returned to the facility to be used again, unless the owner uses the Avenger Thruster to re-enter the hold. Should any player crash into the aircraft or be killed by the proprotors while the plane is in Autopilot mode, the kill will be accredited to the owner of the aircraft.
The Autopilot mode can only be activated in VTOL mode and at least 20 meters/66 feet above the ground. Engaging the Autopilot mode while in motion will result in the aircraft slowly moving back to where the player has activated it.
Like the MOC, the Avenger has immensely durable armor and can withstand incredible damage. Terrain and inanimate object impacts are virtually ignored. However, the Avenger is not as resilient as the MOC, while it can take an immense amount of punishment before being destroyed, the fact of it being an aircraft significantly reduces its effective durability. As with other planes, explosions can easily break off ailerons, which can result in the plane becoming virtually impossible to control, often leading to a crash. The Avenger can still fly slowly with one engine and glide with none. This does not occur if the Avenger is in autopilot.
While it takes plenty of homing missiles to destroy the plane, it is very difficult to dodge without countermeasures, and getting hit in the wrong spot can permanently cripple the aircraft. Enough damage can also disable an engine, making the plane almost impossible to keep in the air. Crashing the plane after losing control may not destroy it, due to the durability of the hull, allowing the occupants to escape. Occupants not in the cockpit are placed on the ground and not killed if it is destroyed.
The Chernobog and AA Trailer are major threats to the Avenger, due to their long range and very high damage. These trucks are best avoided, as the Avenger is not fast or agile enough to avoid heavy damage. The Oppressor Mk II does not have enough missiles to destroy the Avenger directly, but can easily destroy its engines.
With 100% Armor upgrade, the Avenger can take the following:
The cockpit also has bullet resistant windows, taking 16 rifle rounds to shatter them, but a Minigun or a Mk II weapon with FMJ rounds will easily shoot through the windows.
When all of the occupants are inside the hold, the Avenger cannot be locked on by most weaponized vehicles while the plane is stationary or in autopilot. It will still be targeted by homing missiles that are able to lock on to static vehicles, such as the Homing Launcher, the Anti-Aircraft Trailer’s missile battery, and the Chernobog’s missile pod.
Added in the San Andreas Mercenaries , there are two Autopilot Defenses available as upgrades in the player's hangar , but only one can be installed on the Avenger:
The vehicle can be fitted with countermeasures to improve its defensive capabilities against homing missiles, each one with their own attributes:
Note that a co-pilot is required to use the countermeasures.
The Avenger can be equipped with an array of weapons for both the pilot and the cargo hold occupants, making it a versatile choice against most targets.
An upgraded Avenger in Grand Theft Auto Online .
A prop Avenger in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An upgraded prop Avenger in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Other modifications can be performed by the Weapon Mechanic inside the Facility at the Facility Vehicle Workshop . Exclusive upgrades performed by Charlie Reed (labeled "Charlie Upgrades") are only available at the workshop inside the Hangar .
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
An Avenger in Storage . ( Rear quarter view )
The Avenger in Vertical Flight Mode ( Rear quarter view )
The Avenger in Forward Flight Mode ( Rear quarter view )
HVY logo on Warstock Cache & Carry site.
Purchase options on Warstock site.
The Avenger with the "Sessanta Nove Multi-Color" Livery.
An Autopilot-controlled Avenger with the player on the ground having parachuted out.
Interior map of the Avenger' s cargo hold.
Internal view of the Avenger' s cargo hold.
Front section of the hold with doors to the cockpit, wardrobe and armory.
Mid and rear sections of the hold (stock form) with the turret controls on the right and the seating on the left.
With three turret control terminals.
CCTV camera terminal in the hold.
CCTV view of the cockpit.
Single turret controls.
Close-up of one of the Avenger' s cannons.
Multi-turret control from the top turret.
GTA Online Bonuses (April 2019 Part 2) screenshot with the "Skulls" livery for the Avenger and TM-02 Khanjali .
Brioso 300 Week screenshot.
Stunt Racing Week screenshot.
GTA+ Promotional Images
GTA+ April 2022 event screenshot with the special "Conveyor" livery.
The base cost is $ 3,450,000 and for every non-default aspect selected, the price will be increased up to a maximum of $6,237,500. The player can modify the vehicle options at any time by re-visiting Warstock Cache & Carry and re-specifying the customization options, but will not receive any credit for previously purchased options.
Released in The Doomsday Heist .
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Benefactor Terrorbyte is an expedition truck featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the After Hours update, released on August 14th, 2018, during The Black Madonna Residency Week event.
Paige Harris claims she built and designed the interior of the Terrorbyte herself; according to Jodi Marshall , the blueprints were acquired by the FIB , fitted with further upgrades and modifications.
The Terrorbyte is a large command truck based on the Mercedes-Benz Zetros , more specifically the Mercedes-Benz Zetros 6x6 Expedition Vehicle , with the front fascia heavily influenced by URAL Next , evident in the headlights, front bumper, and grille design. The tail lights and some details might come from the Global Expedition Vehicles Patagonia body .
The Terrorbyte assumes a similar layout to the Brickade featured in the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, consisting of a front cab and a rear box module. The front consist of a black bulky bumper with the license plate on the centre and a set of circular lamps on the edges. The upper area is predominated by a mesh grille with black vertical separations on it and a circular detail on the centre with a chrome Benefactor emblem, along with narrow headlamps beside the engine compartment and a snorkel on the passenger side. On the cabin area, there is a large windscreen and an extended section with unusable lamps, while the portions behind are occupied by a set of ladders, the left-side oil tanks and the right-side box with the Benefactor emblem on it. The interior of the cab uses the traditional "Truck" analog dials.
On the rear module, the sides mostly consist of what seems to be window coverings and the lower storage compartments, as well as side marker lights and upper LED-like lights intended for illumination of the box walls (though not used). On the right, there are two doors intended for access of the "Nerve Center"; a frontal one for the occupant/s and a rear one for the owner's Oppressor Mk II (if a Specialized Workshop is installed). On the roof, the truck features frames around the borders and what looks like solar panels similar to the ones on the Brickade, along with a circular hatch intended for the drones (if the Drone Station is available). The rear end of the box features a large compartment carrying the spare wheels and uses a set of tail lamps similar to the RCV .
The primary colour of the truck is applied on the body, while the secondary colour is applied on the details around the cabin roof, the rear box module and the window/door panels. It uses the same industrial wheels as trucks like the Mule and the Phantom , being a derivative of the "Spooner" muscle rims seen in Los Santos Customs and other mod shops.
If the truck is equipped with the Turret Station and someone is operating it, one can see a missile battery that seemingly hides within the box' shape. This weapon bears strong resemblance to the M270 Multiple Launch Rocket System , also having 12 tubes in two six-pack launch pod containers.
The Terrorbyte's box interior is relatively small and is fitted with a touch screen, various electronic devices and other assets the player can purchase. There is a door at the front that leads to the cabin and side doors to exit from the truck, with the rearmost one being an access ramp. Like the Mobile Operations Center and the Avenger , a blue corona may appear in front of the module's door when stationary, and one can exit the vehicle or go into the cabin. The corona would move to the rear door if the aforementioned Oppressor Mk II is driven there. Other changes can happen depending of the upgrades:
When the player enters the rear module for the first time, a brief cutscene plays and Paige talks through some sort of communicator, briefing the player the functionality of the truck, as well as any purchased asset and interactive features.
The Terrorbyte has similar performance to that of the Brickade, having decent speed and handling, but lower acceleration. The suspension provides good capabilities to sort small obstacles and uneven terrain, but is not the best off-road due to the rear-wheel drive layout and its weight. Its high exhaust stack gives it the ability to drive through deep water without the risk of engine damage.
The truck is powered by a diesel engine, coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a front engine, rear wheel drive layout. The truck's engine compartment cannot be opened at all, and if the player manages to clip the camera through it, there is no model altogether. It shares the same low-revving and noisy sound from trucks like the Phantom Custom and the Hauler Custom .
The truck is equipped with two Player Scanners (one on top of the cabin and one between the rear spare wheels), which can be operated by either the driver or the cab passenger. These scanners have a motion range of 180 degrees and are able to read players' general statistics that are displayed on the right side of the screen, along with number of private dances and sex acts purchased. The scanners have an optimal range of about 260m (853ft) relative to the player's position and level, and will also scan through walls, hills and obstacles in general. The scan takes about five seconds and will remain marked on the player for a short period before the user scans the same player again.
During the Client Job " Deal Breaker ", the Terrorbyte is upgraded with Signal Scanners, which incorporate signal trackers to pick the signal of one of the parties' cellphones. This feature is also given to the Drones .
The Terrorbyte is very resistant against bullets and explosives in general, as it takes up to 34 rockets without exploding (with a 35th one to finally destroy it). Like most armoured vehicles, the Terrorbyte comes with bullet-resistant windows, providing small protection against firearms, but one should be still careful, as Full Metal Jacket rounds can pass through these easily and the windscreen is pretty large, leaving the front occupants vulnerable. Though it can stand 34 missiles and millions of bullets, it can still be destroyed by the Orbital Cannon in one shot.
The Terrorbyte comes equipped with a Multi-lock Missile Battery that can lock on five different targets at once, able to attack simultaneously on an order specified by the locking-on sequence, firing four rockets per second. Its lock on range is also great, as it can track targets from 500 meters away, but it has the same maximum range as any other vehicle with missile launchers, at 540 meters. The missiles are not very manoeuvrable and can miss targets that are moving away from where the launcher is aiming. Also, like the Chernobog , it has very limited capacity against land vehicles that are too close to the truck, despite capable of locking on targets from close ranges. The damage inflicted on vehicles are the same as the RPG , blowing up the Insurgent with a player inside in eight missiles. Something unique compared to other launchers is that it can also lock on rival players on foot, making it a dangerous threat on mid to long ranges. The weapon takes five seconds to reload, regardless of how many missiles it fired. However, unguided rockets only take 1.5 seconds to reload.
Care should be taken with the truck while the gunner is operating the launcher; if the truck is flipped to a side, the weapon is rendered unusable and the gunner must wait for the vehicle to turn back onto its normal position to access the remote camera view again.
48 RPM (Homing mode)
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
5 seconds (Homing mode)
The Terrorbyte serves primarily as an operation hub for all 8 business types; Vehicle Cargo , Special Cargo , M/C Club Businesses (Weed, Cocaine, Meth, Counterfeit Cash), Supplies and Air Freight Cargo , alongside Paige's Client Jobs . They can be accessed and triggered on the touchscreen computer within the truck module, which is required to be utilised under a SecuroServ VIP contract, SecuroServ Organization or a registered Motorcycle Club.
If the Turret Station upgrade is installed, a Turret station provides access to the multi-lock missile battery.
The optional Drone Station provides access for a surveillance drone in an area within the truck and will be deactivated when it is out of the signal radius and have a one-minute cooldown until another one can be deployed again. This adds drone props on the bench and what looks like an exit tube reaching the roof of the box module's interior. During Client Jobs involving the use of drones, Paige may temporarily upgrade the station for multiple drone deployments.
The optional Weapon Workshop gives the same functionality as the ones from the Mobile Operations Center and the Avenger : upgrading select weapons to their Mk II counterparts and customising them with unique upgrades.
The truck's Specialized Workshop is the only place where the Oppressor Mk II can be stored and upgraded in this area.
A wardrobe can be seen next to the touchscreen and used in the same manner as any property-owned wardrobe.
The Terrorbyte is added to the player's Interaction Menu under the service section with the other vehicle properties like the Galaxy Super Yacht , Mobile Operations Center and Avenger . The vehicle is able to be called to near* wherever the player is located and dispatched back to nightclub storage on demand. The player cannot immediately relocate an existing Terrorbyte using the menu, they must return it to the nightclub and then re-call it to their current location.
*NOTE: The nearest point can still be half a mile away. Delivery will not be instantaneous like CEO and Biker deliveries.
The Terrorbyte's minimum base cost is $1,375,000 and for every non-default aspect, its price will be increased.
The player can modify the vehicle options at any time by revisiting Warstock Cache & Carry and re-specifying the customization options, but will not receive any credit for previously paid for options. Other exterior modifications can be performed at the Nightclub's garage and the Garment Factory.
* Set by default on the initial purchase. Only charges when switching back during the renovation.
The Terrorbyte can be modified at the workshop inside the Nightclub B5 garage, and the Garment Factory , with exclusive upgrades.
(Only available in the Garment Factory)
When purchased, the Terrorbyte comes painted in the following colors by default:
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Advertisement.
The Terrorbyte with an FIB livery, as seen in the Agents of Sabotage trailer.
Touchscreen.
Nerve Center.
Along with the Oppressor Mk II .
Nerve Center.
The drone in the Client Job – Targeted Data .
Player Scanner.
Promotional image for the GTA+ event in October 2022.
Vehicles with similar features and functionality:
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Pegasus [ 1 ] Mobile Operations Center is a modular semi-trailer featured in the Gunrunning update for Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Mobile Operations Center is depicted as a twin-axle, large-sized trailer with two stands towards the front, side extended walls with marker lights on the upper side, and side storage boxes. The rear guard rail, side ladders and tail lights are derived from the regular Mule , while the ramp door is actually derived from the ramp variant of the aforementioned vehicle. Unlike the Mule, however, the license plate is located on the center.
The trailer can be painted with two colors, where the primary one is applied on the entire body and the secondary one on the trim/outlines of the actual box (the part that excludes the side extensions). It uses industrial wheels derived from most industrial trucks, such as the Benson and Phantom .
The trailer can be equipped with three cannon turrets, a large frontal one on the front wall of the trailer and two smaller turrets on the upper rear quarters of the body.
According to the files, the following vehicles can tow this trailer:
The MOC's cargo hold interior is large and is fitted with living quarters, a touch screen and other assets the player can purchase, assigned to three different bays. There is a secure door at the front and the rear ramp door for exit. A blue corona appears in front of the ramp door when stationary.
Although the trailer has a seating capacity for a limited number of players (depending of the assets installed in the bays), it has standing capacity for the entire lobby (depending on the owner's accessibility permissions).
Taking control of such a large vehicle can be a challenge, as the third person perspective is rather obstructed by the sheer size of the MOC, and is difficult to measure the allocated width of the trailer in first person, especially in stretched areas. The extra width of the modules requires some care in avoiding immovable roadside obstacles, however the combined unit is able to withstand these impacts without detaching the trailer. The trailer height can cause some difficulty navigating low bridges, particularly freeway overbridges, although it can also clip through some obstacles such as the pedestrian walkway between the Union Depository and Arcadius Business Center .
Being a trailer, it cannot be driven, however it does feature its own handling line. The cab unit can be detached from the trailer and driven normally and re-attached at any time. Other semi-truck cabs can then be used to hook onto the MOC and tow it around, however they will not have the additional durability of the custom cabs.
Although difficult to perform, it is possible to crush motorcycles and small vehicles with the MOC by passing it over them, due to its high mass being 13.5 tonnes.
Although the size of the MOC will be an easy target for attackers, the trailer is very resistant to damage, taking 20 RPGs or homing missiles to destroy it. The MOC cab is tied with the Brickade 6x6 for the heaviest armoured vehicle in the game, being able to take 22 RPG rockets or 68 homing missiles (In comparison to the Brickade 6x6 that can withstand 47 RPGs or homing missiles). It can also bear the brunt of many high-damage attacks, such as shells fired from the TM-02 Khanjali , Flak Cannons from an Anti-Aircraft Trailer , the missiles of the Kosatka and explosive cannons from various aircraft such as the B-11 Strikeforce and the P-996 LAZER , making it a very safe refuge in the midst of a battle. As the cab is counted as a separate vehicle, destroying it would render the MOC static and vulnerable. If the MOC is destroyed, it will return to the bunker and can be respawned immediately, but that also means the armored cab must return to the bunker, even if it was not destroyed.
Gun Turret: depending of the upgrades, the trailer has access to either a single remote cannon turret on the front wall that fires high-velocity rockets, or two more on the rear quarters of the model. The cannon turrets behave similarly to those of the Rhino Tank and the stock weapon of the APC , albeit with a higher fire rate (60 RPM), higher projectile velocity (1116 kph or 310 m/s) and longer range (1550m), as well as increased projectile lifetime (5 seconds). These weapons have a wide motion range that leave minimal blind spots around the trailer, with the frontal one covering approximately 45 degrees horizontal and 45 degrees vertical, and the rear ones approximately 120 degrees horizontal and 45 degrees vertical, making it an ideal defensive transport.
As a compromise of its firepower, however, is that occupants can only control one turret at once, meaning if there are less than three occupants and one decides to cover another blind spot, they would require to switch seats, which can be a lengthy process.
The MOC is added to the player's Interaction Menu and is able to be called to near* wherever the player is located and dispatched back to bunker storage on demand.
Inside the Command Center module is a touch-screen wall mounted display which gives the player access to eight Mobile Operations missions to unlock discounted prices on Warstock Cache & Carry vehicles.
The Living Quarters serve only as recreation areas, with sofas, beds and chairs any player can sit on. A wardrobe is also available to change clothes, in the same way as most regular property wardrobes. It is available by default in Bay 1, although one can choose additional Living Quarters in Bays 2 and 3.
The Command Center option for Bay 1 adds three control terminals for the turrets. The left-hand side terminal controls the front turret (already included with the Command Center option), while the two right-hand side terminals control the rear turrets (which must be purchased as a modification for the MOC at the Bunker workshop).
The Weapon Workshop option for Bay 2 allows the player to upgrade selected weapons into Mk II variants and customize them with unique options. It also includes a Gun Locker that works similarly to the one found in Offices .
The Personal Vehicle Storage option for Bay 3 allows the player to store a single Personal Vehicle of any type. The same vehicle can also be requested through the Interaction Menu , under the "MOC services".
The Weapon & Vehicle Workshop option occupies Bays 2 and 3, and allows the player to access the same services as the Weapon Workshop option for Bay 2, and the ability to customize Weaponized Vehicles , as these cannot access to Los Santos Customs or Beeker's Garage . It should be noted that while the vehicle can be left stored there, it does not work as a save point and will reset back to its original garage when switching sessions or leaving the game.
Like the Brickade 6x6, Terrorbyte and several other vehicles, entering a MOC will instantly clear the player's wanted level, regardless of how many police are around.
*NOTE: The nearest point can still be half a mile away. Delivery will not be instantaneous like CEO and Biker deliveries.
The MOC's minimum base cost is $1,225,000 and for every non-default aspect, its price is increased, up to $2,790,000.
The player can modify the vehicle options at any time by re-visiting Warstock Cache & Carry and re-specifying the customization options, but will not receive any credit for previously paid for options. Other modifications can be performed by the Bunker Mechanic inside the Bunker at the Bunker Vehicle Workshop .
Please note: passive mode is disabled while using the Mobile Operations Center with this bay installed.
Note: Includes gun locker and Ammu-Nation functions.
Once the player acquires the MOC, they can also modify it in their Bunker Vehicle Workshop with several customization options, along with the cab itself.
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
An escorted MOC being towed by a Phantom Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
The MOC trailer with a Hauler Custom semi.
A Dune FAV inside the MOC.
Armament controls.
Promotional artwork showing a Weaponized Tampa leaving a Mobile Operation Center.
The MOC entering the Bunker storage area.
The rear turrets researched.
Warning message that appears when selecting the Weapon & Vehicle Workshop.
Gunlocker in the Weapons Workshop.
Close-up of the Front Turret.
Close-up of the Rear Turrets.
Event week screenshot.
Event week screenshot.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The RUNE Kosatka (Russian: Косатка , lit. "Killer Whale") is a Propaganda Class [ 1 ] nuclear-powered submarine featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Cayo Perico Heist update.
It is maintained, operated and manned by Pavel .
The Kosatka takes design cues from the Russian Kelmar and Delfin Delta-class submarines and the Chinese Type 094 submarines.
The vessel is a large cylindrical Teardrop hulled submarine with a length exceeding that of the Galaxy Super Yacht [ 2 ] . The bow is spherical with a player-selected flag marked in the center, just below the surfaced waterline. A vertical sail (incorrectly referred to in game as a Conning tower [ 3 ] ) with horizontal diving planes is located a quarter of the length back from the bow of the vessel. This is marked at the front with a Russian heraldic shield featuring a two-headed-eagle, 1896 , the Russian naval ensign, a five-pointed star and the Ф Cyrillic character. The player's flag is repeated on the side of the sail along with a prominent 81 numeric stencil. A light and mast are atop the sail, with the former able to be toggled on or off when submerged.
Immediately aft of the sail, a raised rectangular "hump" extends for approximately one third of the length of the sub. This houses the interior Moon Pool and Guided missile systems. Eight permanently open missile tubes are present in two rows of four. Plating sections on the hull forward of the missile tubes are indicative of the Moon Pool helicopter entrance hatch. Similar underside plating indicates the entry point for the submersible Moon Pool bays. The hump section tapers down to the tail where stabilizing fins and the twin seven-fin propellers can be seen. Inlet valves for the ballast system can be seen under the aft section of the boat.
An access door is at the front of the sail and there are access hatches just forward of the sail and aft of the hump. When submerging and surfacing, a unique dive alarm is heard.
The Kosatka's interior layout is very similar to the Ramius , a submarine featured in The Doomsday Heist .
Several stairs provide connection between the levels, as well as ladders that allow players to exit the Kosatka through the forward or aft hatches or via the sail at the bridge.
As an enormous submarine, the Kosatka handles relatively poorly due to its sheer size. The Kosatka is difficult to operate or perform evasive maneuvers. However, it has surprisingly good turning capabilities and while it has much slower acceleration, it has a high top speed that allows it to rival the Dinghy , due to its enormous engine and propellers.
The large frame and length of the Kosatka limits most of its presence to open water and will struggle to move in shallow waters and rivers, risking beaching if the submarine attempts to negotiate overly shallow or convoluted shorelines. It is also very hard to dock, requiring the player to step in water unless it is parked, for example, at the Del Perro Pier .
The Kosatka submerges and surfaces in a manner that befits a vessel of its size, and it is unable to descend nor rise at an angle as sharp as the other submersibles in the game, instead rising and descending almost horizontally.
While piloting the boat, there are only two camera views available, a long follow camera, and a First Person/Hood cam view which is positioned immediately on top of the crest on the sail overlooking the bow.
While driving, the player may engage an autopilot function (similar to that used on the Avenger) and leave the helm with the boat remaining in place. This also allows the vessel to remain underwater and avoid most threats, although this limits access for the Sparrow .
The submarine has the same dive depth limit of approximately 500 ft. as the other submersible vessels.
When the vessel is destroyed, the player will respawn on land and can request it from Pavel via the Interaction Menu without a cooldown.
The Kosatka is one of the weakest command centers in the game, only able to withstand 21 homing rockets before destruction. Paired with its sluggish mobility and enormous frame, the Kosatka is extremely vulnerable to damage and can be destroyed by enemy aircraft and even other submarines in direct engagements. It is virtually immune to small arms fire and regular bullets.
However, the Kosatka is capable of staying off radar if submerged underwater, allowing it to stay hidden from enemies unless they are in close proximity to the submarine, or own a Sonar System upgrade for their own Kosatka.
It should be noted that due to its nature as a naval vessel, it can be difficult to even reach the Kosatka, allowing the submarine to keep its distance from the mainland and firmly out of range of threats such as the Homing Launcher and RPG . Only vehicles like the Stromberg and the Toreador can reach the submarine and outmaneuver it, so players have to be aware of such threats.
The Kosatka can take the following:
The Kosatka features three unique on-board weapons:
245 / 803.8 (Weapon)
418 / 1371.4 (Weapon, helm) 557 / 1827.4 (Weapon, periscope)
In addition to the heist planning computer for undertaking The Cayo Perico Heist , the Kosatka has additional functionality.
During the Heist preparations, collected equipment will appear throughout the boat:
The Kosatka is added to the Interaction Menu under the services section with the other vehicle properties like the Galaxy Super Yacht , Mobile Operations Center , Avenger and Terrorbyte .
While seated at the Helm, the owner can choose to Fast Travel to set locations, similar to the Yacht . This will cost $10,000 per trip or $2,000 after completion of The Cayo Perico Heist as leader. Locations available:
Owning a Kosatka incurs a daily fee of $150 for Staff and Utility charges.
The minimum base cost is $2,200,000 and for every non-default aspect, the price is increased, up to $9,085,000.
The player can modify the vehicle options at any time by re-visiting Warstock Cache & Carry and re-specifying the customization options, but will not receive any credit for previously paid for options.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Pre-release
Artwork of the Kosatka.
First sign of the submarine in the first trailer.
Interior seen in the second trailer.
Missile launch in the second trailer.
Guided missile targeting.
Heist planning screen seen in the second trailer.
Official screenshots
Newswire official screenshot.
The Avisa in the moon pool.
The Sparrow taking off from the Kosatka.
The bridge, with The Cayo Perico Heist planning screen, featuring Pavel and the Protagonists .
Discount on upgrades for the Cayo Perico Survival (Week 1) .
Images on Warstock Cache & Carry
Interior map of all 3 decks.
Main deck directions.
Forward hatch exit, main deck.
Bridge wall without upgrades.
Sonar display (left) and Missile control stations (right) .
Periscope station.
View through the periscope.
Heist planning screen.
"Conning tower" exit ladder.
Scuba station, main deck.
Moon Pool - Sparrow helipad.
Moon Pool upper hatch opening.
Moon Pool helipad lift.
Security room.
Second deck directions.
Captain's Quarters, 2nd deck.
Crew sleeping quarters.
Mess and Galley.
Radio in the Mess.
Galley supplies.
Moon Pool Avisa bay.
Avisa docking into the Moon Pool.
Moon Pool - Empty Toreador bay.
Stromberg stored in the second Moon Pool bay.
Moon Pool scuba station.
Aft hatch exit.
Engine room, 2nd Deck.
3rd Deck directions.
Torpedo store, 3rd deck.
Weapon Workshop replacing the Brig.
Generator room.
Exterior map.
Front torpedo tube exit port visible in sunlight.
Imperial crest on the "conning tower".
Light illuminated.
Forward hatch.
"Conning tower" door.
Moon Pool helipad hatch and missile launch tubes.
Moon Pool submersible hatch.
Ballast vents.
Propellers.
Exterior view and control schema ( Xbox controller)
Torpedo projectile launching.
Guided missile launch
Guided missile ( Rear quarter view / Side view )
Homing missile launched from periscope control.
Length comparison.
In game dialogue incorrectly referencing a "conning tower".
RPG projectile launching through the hull.
Icon on land
Spawned at LSIA, in an invite only session.
Foliage shadows in the Moon Pool.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Deluxo is a sports car appearing in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Doomsday Heist update. It is manufactured by Imponte in the HD Universe .
The Deluxo is based on the DMC DeLorean , although various differences may be noted, including tail lights more reminiscent of Ferrari's dual circular tail lights from many of its 1970s and 1980s models, headlights and body shape similar to those of a Renault Alpine GTA/A610 , and a wider spectrum of body colors. The Deluxo also resembles an 1980–1991 Audi Quattro , and like the Quattro, it also has a front-engine, all-wheel drive drivetrain. There also appears to be resemblances to the 1990–1994 Volkswagen Corrado , particularly in the overall shape.
The Deluxo returns with a design much closer to the DMC DeLorean , with the styling of the front fascia derived from either the 1987–1988 Pontiac 6000 or the Volkswagen Corrado , while the rear end features tail lights similar to those of the Nissan 300ZX (Z31) . Some slight styling clues may also have been taken from the Lancia Montecarlo and the first-generation Isuzu Piazza . The vehicle gains the ability to fly, making it similar to its fictional iteration from the Back to the Future series, the DeLorean time machine , though lacking the characteristic devices on the rear.
The Deluxo is easily distinguished by its compact design, featuring a black bumper with a small intake and a splitter below, together with two rectangular headlights and three silver emblems. The sides have flared arches and black mirror wings, while the cabin has a sloped back with triangular rear-quarter windows. The rear has a black panel with four circular lights and the same silver emblems as the front. Two exhaust pipes are seen below the rear bumper.
The car always spawns with a spoiler and four different colors applied on the entire body.
The Deluxo retains the overall body shape and features from the 3D Universe rendition, but is narrower and flatter in overall profile, with a seeming predominance of gray/plastic trimming around the lower portions and the cabin. The front bumper features a narrow intake and two amber indicators, while the upper area bears the grille and rectangular headlights. The front trunk lid hinges from the front and opens to reveal a small luggage compartment inside.
On the sides, the car has similar features to its 3D Universe renditions, including the black rectangular door handles, the small mirror wings and the sloped back. However, it makes use of butterfly doors with a unique hydraulic sound when opened, while the rear lacks a spoiler by default; instead, it has access to various spoiler options, including one resembling the tall spoiler from the 3D Universe iterations.
The rear of the car features a black panel with the license plate in the center and silver "IMPONTE" and "DELUXO" lettering, as well as a set of tail lights separated into main/brake unit on the upper side and turning/reverse units on the lower side. The rear bumper is mostly flat and has small vents on the lower portion, together with the central muffler and two exhaust pipes below the bumper.
The interior of the car uses a large dial cluster in a similar way to cars such as the Turismo Classic and Cheetah Classic . However, it uses a black background with a green grid-like pattern for the main dials and the small gauges, with the warning lights displayed on squared details. The dashboard also has two rectangular aircon units on the edges and a horizontal vented unit in the center, while the radio set is visible on the central console. The inner portions of the seats and the central section where the handbrake is seen have unique red/green striped textures passing over. The steering wheel bears the Imponte logo. Interestingly, the Deluxo is stated in the files to use the same dials and part of the interior textures from the Sentinel Classic , a sports car which was released later.
The car has the ability to switch between car mode and hover/fly mode, which can be transitioned at any time. It features various functional components that do not seem to have fully-rendered storage spaces inside the vehicle; they merely disappear into the car's bodywork when stowed. When transitioning from car to hover/fly mode, the wheels fold up and a rear hatch opens to reveal multiple square-shaped thrusters for forward propulsion, while thrust heat can be seen coming from the wheel wells. When pushed upwards, four small wings are deployed from the front extender and the side skirts before bending upwards to form winglets, intended to provide lift. When transitioning back to car mode, all of the hovering components are stored back and the wheels are lined up again.
The primary color of the car is applied to the bodywork, while the secondary color is applied to the upper portions of the front and rear ends. A trim color is also available for the interior. It uses a set of wire rims resembling the ones from the DeLorean DMC-12, with the rear wheels being larger.
The vehicle can be equipped with a set of machine guns and missile launchers, which will be located on the outer sections of the lower front intake.
In GTA Vice City , the Deluxo is a fast car, but its speed is not on par with the Infernus or the Cheetah . The engine has the same sound as the Infernus, so it may possibly be a V8 as well. The vehicle's braking is pretty good and responsive, and its handling pretty satisfactory. However, as a result of its AWD drivetrain, the Deluxo suffers from some moderate understeer. To mitigate this understeer, take corners by slowing a bit with the car's normal brakes and drifting lightly through them with a slight application of handbrake and countersteer. Take care not to drift too heavily, or the rear end will swing wide and the car will oversteer.
The Deluxo is one of the better vehicles to drift with due to its AWD drivetrain. The Deluxo is also a good vehicle to go racing with. Its acceleration and speed are near the top level of all sports cars, and its AWD provides great stability in all conditions. However, the Deluxo is rather fragile, so take care to avoid crashing too much. Also, the vehicle tends to lose control while clipping objects at high speeds.
In GTA Vice City Stories , the vehicle features a RWD drivetrain, with similar performance to its GTA Vice City counterpart.
RWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
RWD ( GTA Vice City Stories )
The Deluxo received a major overhaul in terms of performance. On land, the Deluxo has properties similar to coupes and hatchbacks, with decent speed, acceleration and good handling on the road; its top speed is 184.1 kph/114.4 mph according to the dashboard's speedometer. One may experience slight oversteer at medium speeds, but it is not much of a problem on the hands of an experienced driver.
The Deluxo, like its real-life inspiration, is a rear-engine vehicle, powering the rear wheels through a four-speed gearbox. However, by clipping the Rockstar Editor camera through the rear section, it does not have a model. The engine sound is shared with cars such as the Buccaneer and the Nightshade , but the Deluxo has a noticeably higher rev limit.
As stated before, the Deluxo is able to switch into a hover/flyer mode, which lifts the car above the ground.
The hovercraft mode not only allows the vehicle to traverse terrain easily, but allows the player to travel over water. The Deluxo can also turn (or rather, spin) with next to no space needed, allowing it to make maneuvers such as doubling back to escape enemies easily. In this state, however, contrary to what one might expect, it is actually slower than in car mode, only reaching 143.2 kph/89 mph according to the dashboard's speedometer. It is also less controllable, therefore being prone at fishtailing on turns. If the player leaves the Deluxo while in hover mode, the wheels will fold back down and the vehicle will return to car mode. This action can be avoided by bailing out of the car while it is in motion (including spinning on the spot), which will result in the car remaining in hover mode. This technique also allows the Deluxo to remain above water if the player wishes to exit it while hovering over a body of water, as the car will otherwise sink and be destroyed if the player leaves it while above water.
When pushed upwards, the car transitions into flyer mode, being an ideal choice to avoid enemies on ground and cruise around easily, but while in flight, the car moves much slower, flying at 126.6 kph/78.7 mph (slightly slower than a Cargobob ). One should note that the vehicle in flyer mode has a limited pitching angle of 20 degrees, preventing the driver from flying straight up. Should the player bail out of a flying Deluxo, the vehicle will behave in a similar manner to a moving car, coming gradually to a stop. It will then slowly descend towards the ground and transition into hovercraft mode upon landing, allowing the player to retrieve it. Unlike most aircraft, the Deluxo does not automatically provide the occupants with parachutes , therefore requiring them to be acquired elsewhere in order to safely bail out of it while in the air.
It should be noted that if the car is flipped over while in hovercraft/flyer mode, it will go back to car mode. This may cause the car to get stuck over certain areas.
The Deluxo can be modified with a set of driver-operated weapons:
By default, both the driver and the passenger can make use of drive-by weapons. When the vehicle is equipped with the weapons upgrade, only the passenger can use their weapons.
22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default 45 45 Vehicle modifier
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
The Deluxo is able to be customized in Los Santos Customs and other mod shops, although the weapons are only accessed via the corresponding vehicle workshop from a Mobile Operations Center or Avenger .
A texture map from the Deluxo . The rear light texture in the bottom indicates that the Deluxo's main lights could have looked like the DeLorean's in an early beta version.
Pre-release screenshot.
The Deluxo on Warstock Cache & Carry .
The Deluxo in hover mode. ( Rear quarter view )
The Deluxo in flight mode. ( Rear quarter view )
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
A Deluxo visible on the GTA San Andreas trip skip icon.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Stromberg is a neighborhood in the Residential District , Anywhere City , in Grand Theft Auto 2 . It is controlled by the Scientists .
The Pegassi Toreador is a custom submersible sports car featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of The Cayo Perico Heist update.
The Toreador is evidently based on the Lamborghini Marzal concept car, seen in the wedge-shaped profile, narrow front end, greenhouse area, and four-seat layout, with some influence from other 1970s cars. The rear fascia and louvers are taken from the Lamborghini Urraco , but with maintaining the rear mesh from the Marzal. The lower part of the car seems to be taken from the Lamborghini Espada . The Toreador's door handle shape seems to follow the shape of the Espada's side vents. The front bumper and subsequently the rear bumper, which is a copy of the front one, may be taken from the Aston Martin Bulldog . The headlights may have drawn inspiration from the BMW 2200 TI Garmisch concept , while the tail lights are a direct copy of those found on the Alfa Romeo Alfetta GT .
Depicted as a 1960s style 4-door sports car, the Toreador has a narrow front end, featuring a black plastic bumper with a small lip on the centre. The area below the bumper has a central intake and two rectangular high-beam lamps, while the area above the bumper has a small central panel and a set of four headlamps on the inner sides and two amber signals on the edges. The bonnet follows a slanted profile on the front and features an inset profile leading to a narrow intake near the windscreen, while the manufacturer emblem is seen on the front end.
The sides of the car denote a more luxurious approach, having chrome details running through the sides, along with flared arches on the front and small bodywork extensions on the rear that cover the upper bit of the rear wheels. The most notable feature are the gull-wing doors with lower glass panes, chrome handles that are part of the side details and small rear door intakes, with the lower ones directing airflow to the rear brakes and the smaller upper ones to the engine bay. The greenhouse area is characterized by the glass roof and the seeming lack of B-pillars, featuring chrome trim around the windows and a chrome detail next to the A-pillars. The rear section is mostly occupied by black slatted exit vents that span most of the car's width.
The rear end is generally basic, featuring a slanted profile and a large meshed vent with a dedicated section for the license plate, as well as a silver lettering above it, displaying the car's name. There are also large tail lamp units, consisting of main/brake upper lamps and turn/reverse lower lamps. The lower area basically consists of a black plastic bumper with a similar profile to the front one and the dual-exit exhausts on either side, while the underside is mostly occupied by a carbon-fibre plate.
The interior of the car is almost completely reused from the Gauntlet Classic , making use of an inset driver-side portion of the dashboard and fitted with a wooden backing and chrome trimmings around the panel and the dials. The dials themselves are the same "Dominator" dials prominently used on various classic cars, but are arranged in a way that the main dials are located beside the steering column and the gauges on the centre of the whole interior. Rectangular aircon units can be seen on the passenger side, while the manufacturer emblem is seen on the steering wheel. A Pegassi badge can be also seen behind the rear seats.
The vehicle is distinguished by its ability to switch between car mode and submarine mode, which, just like the Stromberg and the Deluxo , can be transitioned at any time. It features various functional components that do not seem to have fully-rendered storage spaces inside the vehicle; they merely disappear into the car's bodywork when stowed:
The primary colour of the car is applied on the upper bodywork, while the secondary one is applied on the lower/bottom area. A trim colour is also available for the interior, door cards and seats. It has a unique rim design, consisting of five long outer open slots and five smaller inner ones, with the centre being occupied by knock-off hub caps.
The vehicle is armed with two machine guns protruding from the bonnet intake and a set of missile/torpedo launchers hidden behind the central panel, which opens when the launchers are selected.
On car mode, the Toreador seems to have fair handling and speed, but has average acceleration, the latter of which can be improved by upgrading it at Los Santos Customs or at a vehicle workshop . The handling and cornering ability are also fairly good, though the rear-wheel drive layout does make its presence known at times through slippery handling. Being an amphibious vehicle, it will not fail like other land vehicles if left in car-mode when entering water, but will be difficult to control, therefore making it essential to change into the submarine mode. Losing the driver door, however, renders it vulnerable to water, being destroyed in the process like any normal vehicle. The car's windows are shatterproof, although they are not bulletproof. Overall, it performs similar to the Stromberg.
By holding right on the D-Pad, or holding H on PC, the vehicle transitions from car mode to submarine mode in approximately four seconds.
When executing a handbrake turn, the handbrake is evidently weak as the wheels reluctantly lock up to engage the scenario. This is also present with the Ocelot Stromberg where handbrake turning is a task. To counter this, shifting the weight of the vehicle by pendulum to purposely lessen the stability of the rear may be needed.
On submarine mode, performance is average. Forward speed is quicker than a Submersible or a Kraken , but is still slower than any surface speed boat.
Ascent and descent rate is faster than other submersibles but can only be achieved using forward momentum and pitching the nose. There is no raise and lower control functionality as in the other submersibles as these controls are assigned to the weapons in the Toreador. Rudder response is quite sensitive. The car will momentum-drift noticeably when trying to turn sharply under water.
Collision with the seabed or underwater flora will cause damage, and can eventually destroy the vehicle (and potentially kill the occupants depending on the depth this occurs). The vehicle shares the same depth range as other submersibles and will be crushed by water pressure at just past 500 ft (0.11 miles), killing the occupants, even if they are equipped with Scuba Suits .
Visibility when breaching the surface is poor and there is a risk when driving out of the water of the vehicle getting stuck on terrain whereby neither land nor submarine mode will be usable to get the vehicle unstuck. Abandoning the vehicle on foot and getting it redelivered by the Garage Mechanic or pushing it with other nearby vehicles/boats will be required.
It is possible to exit the Toreador under water without destroying it. It is also possible to (re-)enter the Toreador under water, too, though the Toreador will slowly rise to the surface if empty.
By holding again right on the D-Pad, or holding H on PC, the vehicle transitions from submarine mode to car mode in approximately three seconds.
What makes the Toreador slightly superior to the Stromberg is the booster; this booster works similarly to vehicles with booster turbines such as the Rocket Voltic and the Oppressor . It propels the car for about a second and recharges quite quickly at two seconds when touching the ground with all four wheels, allowing the car to accelerate quickly or maintain speed better than most cars (although it is still inferior to the Vigilante in that aspect). The booster also works underwater, making it superior to most naval vehicles.
If the player owns a Kosatka and has purchased the optional sonar station, their Toreador gains the sonar function when in the water. Pressing the sonar button will reveal the presence of the daily Hidden Caches which can be collected in the Toreador, as well as submerged Kosatkas.
Defence-wise, it takes six homing rockets or two RPG rockets to explode the Toreador, giving it a similar defensive edge to the Stromberg and over the Deluxo . However, it is very vulnerable to close high angle air attacks due to a limited lock-on angle of the homing missile, although still devastating once locked on to an opponent.
The Toreador, like most vehicles with similar design layout, provides slight protection against targets from the rear. Even though the windows cannot be shattered, they offer no protection to the occupants, and the glass roof may render the occupants vulnerable to enemies from above, such as pursuing Police Mavericks .
The driver has access to a set of weapons for both car and submarine modes:
Occupants are unable to use drive-by weapons.
22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default 45 45 Vehicle modifier
380 / 1246.7 (Weapon)
145 / 475.7 (Weapon)
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Toreador on the official artwork of The Cayo Perico Heist update.
The Toreador on Warstock Cache & Carry .
The Toreador in submarine mode. ( Rear quarter view )
Event week screenshot showcasing the Shark Camo livery.
Event week screenshot.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Alternate badge used in an advertisement.
With the special "War Camo" livery from the GTA+ June 2022 event.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Declasse Scramjet is a custom weaponized vehicle featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the After Hours update, released on August 21st, 2018, during the Scramjet Week event.
The Scramjet takes cues from the popular 1960s anime series Speed Racer and the lead car, the Mach Five , with influences from various 1950s and 1960s concept cars. The front and rear fenders resemble those found on the Alfa Romeo 33/2 Coupé Speciale or the Ferrari 250 P5 Berlinetta Speciale Concept . The rear follows the Oldsmobile Golden Rocket , however, ending in exhausts and tail lights similar to the Chrysler Turbine Car . The headlights, as well as the grille where the weapons are mounted, may be influenced by the Alfa Romeo BAT series concept cars .
The Scramjet assumes a sleek profile with a seemingly rounded body, featuring a trident-like front end with circular headlights on the edges and small intakes beside the central nose. The sides of the car lack any sort of handles or mirrors around the doors, and the car has an open-top design with a curved windshield, while the rear area has triangular intakes on the rear fenders and sharp fins behind the cabin. The rear end only has rectangular tail lights and circular exhaust tips on the edges, also acting as the rocket boosters.
The interior of the car uses the same dials as the Buccaneer and the Dominator , arranged in a way where the main gauges are on the driver side, and the display gauges in the center and below the radio set. A rectangular mirror is mounted above the dashboard, while the steering wheel bears the Declasse logo. It uses large seats with safety belts.
The vehicle only has a primary color assigned to the bodywork and the stitching around the steering wheel. It also uses a set of wheels that are identical to the "Drag SPL" muscle wheels available in Los Santos Customs , Beeker's Garage and other mod shops, with the frontal ones being narrower. The rims can also support a dedicated color.
The vehicle is equipped with a set of machine guns and missile launchers located on the front intakes.
The Scramjet's aerodynamic design allows for good acceleration and top speed, as well as decent handling and braking. Its suspension is low due to its wheels having negative camber , often struggling to sort small barriers, but it is slightly compensated by the front end having a sloped profile, sorting out curbs and small bumps normally.
The Scramjet has 5 Advanced Flags activated [ 2 ] , including the 4 flags introduced in the Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series update, with only the first three having known purposes. They are as follows:
The Scramjet is powered by a front engine, coupled to a 6-speed gearbox and powering the rear wheels. Its engine sound is similar to that of the XA-21 .
Protection-wise, the Scramjet offers little to no resistance to explosive damage, as one direct hit by a Homing Missile is able to destroy it. Furthermore, due to its open-top design, the occupants are also prone to sustained gunfire. Inadvisable to take this vehicle to heavy shootout scenes.
Both abilities can be used simultaneously, making the Scramjet a great vehicle for shortcuts and evading most enemies. However, it requires practice, as the car tends to lean forward when using the booster mid-air. This also requires awareness of the environment, as the car may accidentally end up getting stuck or even sinking on water.
The driver has access to their weapons for drive-bys , being useful against targets that are away of the vehicle's front or in situations where lighter weaponry is vital (i.e. retrieving a target vehicle).
22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default 45 45 Vehicle modifier
540 / 1771.6 (Weapon)
The Scramjet can only be modified at a vehicle workshop , which is located either inside an upgraded Mobile Operations Center , in an upgraded Avenger , or at the Arena Workshop (if the player has purchased the Weapons Expert mechanic ).
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
When purchased, the Scramjet comes painted in the following colors by default:
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Advertisement.
The Scramjet on Warstock Cache & Carry .
The Scramjet on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Scramjet on the updated Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Scramjet in a Cinematic preview on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Alternative badge used in an advert.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Alternative badge used in the Lucky Wheel advert.
Event week screenshot.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
" Vigilante " refers to a long-running series of law enforcement vehicle-based side missions and minigames in the Grand Theft Auto series:
The HVY Insurgent is a Light Armored Personnel Vehicle (LAPV) featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Heists update.
The Insurgent is a SUV-like Light Armored Personnel Vehicle (LAPV) that is inspired by the Terradyne Armored Vehicles and NIMR LLC line of tactical armored vehicles, with some influences from the Conquest Knight XV for the grille layout. The front and sides are very likely to have been influenced by the Alpine Armoring Pitbull VX , while the general shape of the greenhouse area seems to take influence from the Oshkosh Sandcat . The vehicle also draws loose inspiration from the Marauder , given the raised suspension, semi-squared door windows and a similar tail lights setup.
The Insurgent is a large and bulky vehicle evidently purposed as a military vehicle, whose front end features a reinforced bumper and dual grilles with multiple vent holes facing downwards, intended to protect the radiator while providing the necessary air flow. Its hood is completely sealed for total protection to the engine, featuring a large vent and metal plates around it.
The sides are distinguished by the bulky fenders and the armored details on the doors, with an extra set of windows for the rear compartment and the side steps and roof rails. The single windshield also features a bolted-on detail. A hatch can be seen on the roof, though it is unusable.
The rear end is basically composed of the dual set of square tail lights, a reinforced bumper and a large unopenable door. The rear compartment is detailed with a floor plate and two benches. The underside feature sump guards just near the axles, along with large, armored wheels with rugged, high-profile tires.
The SUV's primary color is applied onto the bodywork and the sump guards, while the secondary color is applied onto the parts holding the winch, front towing hooks, hood vent and bars, side roof rails, roof hatch hinges, fenders, rear towing hooks and the bolt details on the rear bumper. The stock wheels are also painted with a separated color, though this is only seen when purchased and will revert back to the default alloy color when changed.
In terms of overall performance, the acceleration is somewhat lacking due to its heavy weight, but it has an acceptable top speed. The Insurgent's immense weight helps to keep it grounded when cornering, and contributes to it having good handling for a vehicle of its stature. It has a decent cornering radius and understeer is relatively minor. The Insurgent is abnormally sensitive in the air, and may be prone to crash landings if the user is not careful. However, it is able to quickly recover from rolling over. Though the engine model or bay cannot be seen, the sound is similar to that of the Landstalker 's, but slightly smoother, coupled to a 6-speed gearbox in a front engine, all-wheel drive layout.
The Insurgent's sheer weight means that it is a formidable vehicle towards other players. The Insurgent can cripple or even disable many other road vehicles if given a direct hit at full speed, and will usually run over lighter cars, deforming them and often breaking wheels or axles. It also seems to have a degree of top-heaviness that is evident while airborne, however it makes up for it by being able to recover abnormally fast from a rollover, relative to its class. It can also ram parked vehicles and continue to drive without any noticeable damage, and it will only show body deformation after a large number of collisions.
The Insurgent is distinctive by its armored body, which is able to withstand more damage than the average car, even able to withstand direct impacts from explosive weapons, comparable to a Rhino Tank . However, the Insurgent has large windshields and windows, making their occupants vulnerable to gunfire from the front, and despite the fact that there is a barrier between the rear seats and the covered compartment, players can still be shot through it.
With a driver inside (otherwise the explosion resistance will be cut in half), the Insurgent can take the following:
An Insurgent Pick-Up in Grand Theft Auto Online .
An Insurgent Pick-Up Custom in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Promotional screenshot of the Insurgent during Humane Raid - Insurgents .
A team of players with an Insurgent during the Humane Raid - Deliver EMP setup mission.
The Insurgent 's variants. Note the tail light issue on the armed variant.
"Humane Raid - Insurgents" Job Image, featuring the Insurgent and displaying its armor specs.
Inside the rear of the Insurgent .
Event week screenshot.
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
The Insurgent in the Sell Weapons mission. ( Rear quarter view )
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The HVY Nightshark is an armored four-door SUV featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Gunrunning update, released on August 8, 2017 , during the Nightshark Week event.
The Nightshark was initially featured as a mission-only vehicle in the Mobile Operation mission Exit Strategy . However, as of the Nightshark Week event, it became available for purchase.
The SUV seems to draw inspiration from various custom armored vehicles manufactured by Dartz . It is mainly based on the T-98 Kombat , with the front fascia influenced by the Dartz Prombron "Black Shark" . The D-pillar and rear fascia appear to be derived from the Dartz Prombron "Black Alligator" . The horizontal tail lights might come from the Dartz Prombron "Black Snake" , although they incorporate a triple indicator configuration from the Range Rover (L405) , which is also utilized on the "Black Alligator". The rear bumper appears to be adapted from the Dartz Prombon "Black Dragon" , while the side exhaust mounted on the bumper seems to originate from the Dartz Kombat "Aladeen Edition" . Additionally, the triple vents on the bonnet and the split windshield appear to be inspired by the INKAS Sentry MPV .
The Nightshark assumes an utilitarian and sturdy design, featuring a heavy-duty bumper with a steel bar in the center and an open mesh grille with high-beam square lights, followed by circular main lights and dual outer turning lights. The hood area is mostly enclosed, featuring small vents on either side.
On the sides, small armor panels run between the angular arches, while the cabin area has dual circular high-beam lights with three marker lights on the roof, and small bars above the side windows. The exhaust tips can be seen on either rear quarter of the rear bumper.
The rear has a thick armor panel in the center and rectangular tail lights beside it, separated into the main and brake units on the inner side, and dual turning units with lower reverse units on the outer side. The heavy-duty rear bumper mounts the license plate and a steel bar with the tow hitch, along with a sump guard on the underside.
The interior of the vehicle is shared with the Insurgent and the Insurgent Pick-Up , using a digital dial set with various components usually seen on industrial trucks. The back section has a rather worn appearance.
The vehicle is prominently painted in a primary color, with the outer portions and circular holes of the front bumper, the steel bars, the side armor panels and the side roof bars painted in a secondary color. The vehicle uses large industrial wheels with high-profile tires, sharing the same steel rim design with the ones from the Insurgent and its armed variant. These rims can also support a dedicated color (although only naturally-generated examples may have one).
The vehicle is equipped with four retractable machine guns located in the outermost vent holes of the front bumper. When selected, the small hatches open and the machine guns are extended/retracted.
For an armored vehicle of this size, the Nightshark performs exceptionally well. It has great acceleration and good top speed, as well as great handling, able to sort most turns on the road, though one may experience slight understeer on sharp turns. The reinforced bumper also means it can push over other vehicles rather easily, without a drastic loss of speed. Its suspension is average for a car of its type, meaning it can keep its stability on bumpy terrain and uneven roads, but the ground clearance is seemingly low, often crashing into obstacles such as small barriers.
Like the Insurgent and its variants, the hood is completely sealed, meaning there is no way to reveal its engine (in fact, it lacks an engine model). The engine sound is similar to that of the Schafter V12 , which sounds higher-revving and louder. When idle, the engine sound is identical to the sound used for the Lynx .
Like the Insurgent, the Nightshark is resistant to explosions, able to take up to 8 RPGs or 8 sticky bombs , being destroyed with a ninth one. It is also able to take up to 26 homing missiles when fully upgraded (provided that it is occupied by a driver, otherwise the explosion resistance will be halved), giving it high durability against vehicles with homing missiles and providing reaction time for the driver to escape.
Its only downside is that the windows are not bullet-proof, meaning that players are vulnerable to gunfire. This can be partially remediated by installing window plates, as they cover most of the cabin and only leave a small opening. Still, players can be shot from a small opening, and the plates on the doors do not protect the occupants. The window plates also prevent the occupants from using any weapons at all (except for the front machine guns).
Machine Gun: The driver has access to four front-facing machine guns, which perform similarly to those from vehicles such as the Blazer Aqua and the Ruiner 2000 , with a damage of 20 and a fire rate of 1,000 rounds per minute. They have decent firepower against players and vehicles with none or light armor, but will struggle against heavily-armored vehicles.
Towing an Anti-Aircraft Trailer in collaboration with another player gives the vehicle increased potential, as the Nightshark lacks any sort of defensive capabilities against targets on either side and rear, but it is faster than most other vehicles that can tow it. The lack of armor often makes the trailer the first vehicle to lose during a combat.
15 15 LightArmor modifier 20 20 Default
The Nightshark is able to be customized at Los Santos Customs and other mod shops , although the liveries can only be accessed in the Vehicle Workshop inside a Mobile Operations Center or an Avenger .
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
( Rear quarter view )
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
Promotional Screenshot.
The Nightshark on Warstock Cache & Carry .
Advert for the Nightshark in 2020 .
Lucky Wheel advertisement.
Event week screenshot.
Nightshark badge used in advert.
Promotional image for the GTA+ event in October 2024 .
Another image for aforesaid event with the limited time Skulls livery.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
The Imponte Duke O'Death is a two-door armored muscle car featured in the enhanced version of Grand Theft Auto V , and released in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of the Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit update.
The Duke O'Death was originally an exclusive vehicle for players who owned and have previously played the original versions of Grand Theft Auto V , given as a reward for completing a random event involving it.
Later, as of the release Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit update for Grand Theft Auto Online , it became available for all players through in-game currency , although those who played the original versions of the game can claim this vehicle for free.
The Duke O'Death is a highly modified variant of the Dukes ; as such, it is based on the 1968–1970 Dodge Charger . The Duke O'Death's design may be a reference to the film Death Race , which revolves around the racing of heavily armored (and armed) road vehicles. Specifically, the 2008 remake features several cars similar in design to the Duke O'Death, while there are also some design elements and references in the Warstock descriptions to the Mad Max film franchise.
The Duke O' Death features the same chassis and body as the normal Dukes, but comes with a custom front bull-bar similar to the police cars , an external roll-bar with lights attached, rear louvers and protective armor plates covering the windows and windshield.
The car appears to be already modified with the same options as the normal Dukes, being the Custom Front Splitter, Side Exit Exhausts, Roll Cage and Chassis Upgrade and Painted Roof. It has a uniquely designed bug catcher that isn’t present on other muscle cars.
It comes by default in Matte Black when acquired/purchased, but through customization, the color distribution is the same as the normal Dukes; the front and rear ends, bug catcher, wheel arches, side lower trim, exhausts and rear bumper are painted with the secondary color, although the window trims are not painted due to the armor plating covering it. The stock wheels are actually painted with the secondary color.
The Duke O'Death is powered by a supercharged, high-output V8 engine, capable of providing excellent torque and top speed. In contrast with the normal variant of the Dukes, this car seems to have better acceleration and top speed, although it has a tendency to oversteer at high speeds. Another downside is its poor braking abilities, however these can be easily tweaked to a much better working state in any Los Santos Customs mod garage.
Durability is excellent, as the Duke O'Death is able to ram and push other vehicles off the road with ease thanks to its increased mass, and the car's bodywork is very strong. Crash deformation is very minimal, and it can be said that this car has some of the best durability traits in its class. Successfully combining the use of Franklin's Special Ability and the ramming ability of this car can make the car as effective as a Phantom , in terms of crashing. However, the Duke O'Death can still be destroyed by a Sticky Bomb or a direct hit from the Rhino 's cannon. With the 100% Armor upgrade at Los Santos Customs, an otherwise undamaged Duke O' Death will be capable of withstanding a sticky bomb but will be severely weakened and easily destroyed by crash impact, small arms gunfire or a second sticky bomb. The Rhino can also run over and crush the car. It can resist 3 RPG's before a 4th one destroys it, while it resists 4 homing missiles and is destroyed on the 5th, both times with a driver inside.
One notable drawback of this car, shared with other armored variants of regular vehicles, is the distinct difficulty of performing side drive-by's and firing rearward, with the presence of louvers and shutters in all windows but the left front (i.e. driver) one. This window is an "Achilles' heel" for the vehicle and its driver, as a well-aimed shot through the window (by a rival player or a lucky shot by an NPC) can kill the driver. Otherwise, with full armor modifications in place, the vehicle is virtually bulletproof to standard firearms and vehicle guns up to and including the Oppressor Mk II , especially from the rear.
Front quarter view
Rear quarter view
Underside image
Inside view
Other modelling
Driver's first-person view
The Duel random event spawn location to unlock the vehicle.
Spawned in the Desert (after unlocking).
Spawned at El Burro Heights.
The Duke O' Death on Warstock Cache & Carry .
For Sale after completing Duel (XBox One/PS4 edition). No description has been added.
For Sale after completing Duel (PC edition). Fixed version.
Promotional screenshot.
Spawn points.
Originally, Duke O'Death's modded in from Story Mode were blacklisted, meaning that they are made to automatically explode upon entry to GTA Online , and are immobile during races. These are used as deterrents for obtaining glitched vehicles. This was disabled in the Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit update, as being made officially available.
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto V Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Content updates for Grand Theft Auto Online A Safehouse in the Hills | Money Fronts | Agents of Sabotage | Bottom Dollar Bounties | The Chop Shop | San Andreas Mercenaries | Los Santos Drug Wars | The Criminal Enterprises | The Contract | Los Santos Tuners | The Cayo Perico Heist | Los Santos Summer Special | The Diamond Casino Heist | The Diamond Casino & Resort | Arena War | After Hours | Southern San Andreas Super Sport Series | The Doomsday Heist | Smuggler's Run | Gunrunning | Cunning Stunts: Special Vehicle Circuit | Import/Export | Bikers | Cunning Stunts | Further Adventures in Finance and Felony | Lowriders: Custom Classics | Be My Valentine | January 2016 Update | Festive Surprise 2015 | Executives and Other Criminals | Halloween Surprise | Lowriders | Freemode Events Update | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 | Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 | Heists | Festive Surprise | The Last Team Standing Update | The San Andreas Flight School Update | The Independence Day Special | The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update | The High Life Update | The Business Update | The Valentine's Day Massacre Special | Holiday Gifts | Beach Bum Update
Michael planning The Jewel Store Job in Grand Theft Auto V .
Heists are elaborate multi-part story missions first introduced in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City that involve the setting up and subsequent execution of a major crime, usually a theft. The final crime tends to be a high-profit job that can earn the player a considerable sum of money , typically greater than would be expected of other missions.
Since the origins of the concept in Vice City , several games in the series have included similar mission strands, most notably Grand Theft Auto V , which builds its entire story mode around the concept of several elaborate heists. Grand Theft Auto Online also includes a major heists component, as of the Heists update.
Although not specifically named or identified as such, the first multi-part heist scenario appeared in GTA Vice City , and centered on Tommy Vercetti gathering a team to rob El Banco Corrupto Grande . After a series of setup missions in which the various members of the team are recruited to Tommy's cause, the final mission " The Job " involves the execution of the robbery itself.
The idea of performing a series of setup missions leading to a large robbery reappeared in GTA San Andreas , in which Carl Johnson and Wu Zi Mu organize a heist at Caligula's Palace in Las Venturas . After carrying out the necessary preparations, the mission " Breaking the Bank at Caligula's " sees the team rip off the casino and make their escape.
Only one major heist appears in GTA IV , as the mission Three Leaf Clover . The heist, which targets the Bank of Liberty , is executed by Niko Bellic , Patrick McReary , Derrick McReary and Michael Keane .
In Grand Theft Auto V , the heists concept took on additional significance, with a series of such mission strands forming the core of the game's story. The major heists typically begin with a meeting of the three protagonists: Michael De Santa , Franklin Clinton , and Trevor Philips .
Agent 14 helping to plan a heist in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Heist missions were added to Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Heists update, released on March 10th, 2015 . In terms of overall structure, they are similar to the heists found in the single-player game, in that they involve a series of setup missions that culminate in a high-profit crime. However, unlike GTA V , heists are set up by one of the players taking part (dubbed the Heist Leader); this player has to pay a sum of money up-front to finance the job, but can also dictate how the final profits will be split among the participants.
Heists were expanded upon in the enhanced version with the release of The Doomday Heist , The Diamond Casino Heist and The Cayo Perico Heist updates. The first adds an entirely new, 3-act heist, The Doomsday Heist which aims to save San Andreas from total annihilation, unlocking new weaponized vehicles in the process. It primarily involves Lester , later reintroducing Agent 14 and other new heist leaders.
Unlike in Contact Missions or Lamar Missions where players could utilize whatever Personal Vehicle they desire, Online Heists along with the Doomsday Heist restrict the usage of multiple vehicles in order to prevent players being overpowered since the Gunrunning Update. Note that Special Vehicles from Import/Export Update will not be taken into account since they could only be used during Free Mode. All Online heist-restricted vehicles are listed below:
The Big Score can refer to:
The Cayo Perico Heist is a heist introduced to Grand Theft Auto Online in The Cayo Perico Heist update. The heist's story focuses on the protagonist being contacted by the son of a Mexican crime boss they worked with before, in order to steal problematic documents being held by a prominent drug lord from their island stronghold in the Caribbean . The heist focuses on players scoping out the island for points of interest, entry points both to the island and the victim's compound , and any additional lucrative targets for them to steal.
Unlike other heists , The Cayo Perico Heist allows players to approach the heist either in the planned method or doing it differently than intended, as well as handling the mission on their own although securing less of a payout, or working with others, requiring co-ordination between all players, but providing a greater payday for all involved.
The Cayo Perico Heist focuses on players conducting a major heist against Juan Strickler , a notorious drug lord known to many as El Rubio, who maintains an island compound in the Caribbean which houses a collection of valuables, is home to a major part of his drug operations, and maintains tight security measures and heavily armed guards, including gunboats, an attack helicopter, and surface-to-air missile turrets. The focus of the heist is to secure a major target being held in a vault beneath Strickler's secure compound and escape with it, using any methods to reach the island and breach into the vault. This includes going in aggressive, using stealth to neutralize hostiles, or conducting subterfuge by using disguises to get around guards. In addition to this, players can also steal additional valuables from secure storage sites, which increase the overall payout of the heist.
The heist may only be initiated when a player is operating as a CEO or VIP Organization or a Motorcycle Club , with the first time playthrough focused on the protagonist conducting the heist to secure documents for Miguel Madrazo , the son of Martin Madrazo , being held by Strickler. The initial job focuses on the players meeting Miguel at the newly opened nightclub, The Music Locker .
The player is directed to purchase a Kosatka submarine from Warstock Cache & Carry as a base of operation for the heist, with the initial setup cost and fencing fees covered for the first time, and making use of a beach party organized by Strickler to go undercover to plan the heist. After the first playthrough, the player must pay an upfront fee of $100,000 (as of 27/09/2023) when initiating another playthrough of the heist, but will focus on stealing valuables being held by Strickler in his vault, using a drug smuggling plane to return to scope out the island.
The heist is divided between three separate strands of missions: Intel, which focuses on scoping out points of interests, the primary target, and any potential secondary loot targets; Prep, which focuses on acquiring the needed equipment to pull off the heist (following on from the idea used in the Doomsday Heist and the Diamond Casino Heist ; and the Finale, which focuses on conducting the heist in any arrangement the player decides upon, regardless of how they chose the heist to proceed as upon the planning screen. The Cayo Perico Heist can be completed solo by players, not only in scoping and prep work, but the finale of the heist itself; however, the payout for doing it solo is reduced as a result, as certain secondary targets are held behind locked doors within the compound that require another player to open, limiting access to valuable goods such as gold and paintings unless the heist is played with other players.
The Gather Intel mission is a freemode mission that begins the Cayo Perico Heist, and focuses on scoping out the island for heist by locating a key target, several optional loot items, and important points of interest. To do so, players must visit the island undercover - their first playthrough sees them acting as the tour manager for a prominent DJ who is set to provide music for a beach party, while subsequent playthroughs see players visit the island while disguised as one of its regular drug smugglers.
The mission may be completed entirely solo, and during Invite Only, Friend, and Solo sessions. The mission allows for full exploration of most of the island, though prohibiting players from conducting outright conflict, instead using stealth to avoid detection by guards and security cameras while seeking out important intel and any potential opportunities for the heist. Like the Diamond Casino Heist, the mission is repeatable after the initial run, allowing players to return and scope out any additional points of interest or targets that they missed.
Prep missions are freemode missions that may be completed at any time through the Kosatka's planning screen. These tasks consist of acquiring and preparing equipment necessary for the heist, such as approach vehicles, weapons, and tools. Optional prep missions provide players with the opportunity to sabotage the guards before the heist and make the heist significantly easier, though these may only be done once. Players also have the option to steal the equipment from rival Organizations and Motorcycle Clubs, should they be performing a prep mission.
Prep missions may be completed entirely solo. They may also be completed in Invite Only sessions, Friend sessions, and Solo sessions. No prep missions require taking multiple vehicles or items, eliminating the need to backtrack when playing solo.
Like the Diamond Casino Heist, support crew is available, but instead of taking a cut, they simply require an upfront payment to be used during the heist itself. Instead of supports such as gunmen or hackers, the support crew available in the Cayo Perico Heist provides assistance such as snipers, airstrikes, or reconnaissance drones. Certain supports can only be executed if certain conditions are met, such as disabling air defenses or infiltrating using a specific vehicle.
Unlike previous heists, players are free to complete the Cayo Perico Heist however they please, with de facto "Aggressive", "Big Con", and "Silent and Sneaky" options available to players during the heist. Prep missions may also affect the approach and events of the heist.
The host can make different choices to change the approach vehicles, the entrance and escape points, and the time of day. Unlike previous heists, most of the choices are not locked in and players are free to take any approaches they like on the go, such as choosing a different infiltration or exit point than what's selected.
The following Awards are earned for completing gameplay milestones related to The Cayo Perico Heist content.
They can be tracked from the Pause Menu in Stats > Awards > The Cayo Perico Heist .
The Fleeca Job is the final part of the Fleeca Job , the first heist available in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Heists update.
The first time a player starts this heist, there will be no leader set-up cost, as Lester covers it. Subsequent replays incur 10% of the base total payout, $11,500.
The crew of two players will be tasked by Lester to steal bonds from safety deposit box 167 at the Fleeca on the Great Ocean Highway in Banham Canyon .
After completing the set-up missions, the finale sees the two players take up the role of Driver and Driller. By default, the host is assigned as Driller with a 60% take and the crew member as Driver with a 40% take, but this can all be changed once the game finishes introducing the heist board.
The Driver takes control of the stolen armored Kuruma and drives to the Fleeca Bank with the Driller on board. If the Driller has not completed the hacking minigame yet, the Driver must wait until the other player completes said hacking. After arriving at the destination, they both equip masks and go into the bank.
The Driver controls the NPC witnesses and shoots out the four ceiling-mounted security cameras; the crew is provided Pump Shotguns for this. The Driver must destroy the cameras quickly. An on-screen indicator shows the driver the level of intimidation. They must not kill any of the witnesses but if the intimidation level drops to the minimum, the teller will trip the alarm to alert the police . Once the Driller secures the deposit box, the alarm will go off and the Driver is free to run for the Kuruma and wait for the Driller to get in.
The Driller boards the armored Kuruma as a passenger. While the Driver gets to the bank, the Driller hacks their security system with the same hacking minigame as the previous mission . Just like before, the minigame consists of the player moving a constantly moving line from a start point to an end point. If it touches anything but the exit it fails and has to be restarted. There are 3 levels with each one increasing the difficulty of the maze. Continued failure slows down the speed of the point but reduces the achievement level. After completing the minigame, the player is directed to use the cellphone to unlock the bank's vault and equip the given mask to go into the bank.
While the Driver controls the witnesses, the Driller goes to the safety deposit boxes at the rear of the bank and plays a drilling minigame to open up the box and take the contents. The Driller's goal is to drill through the lock of Safety Deposit Box 167 (represented on the HUD as a 2D lock mechanism with four pins). If the drill is pushed too hard, it overheats, turning the bit red and taking a few seconds for the bit to cool down. The Driller controls the speed the bit turns using the controller trigger (or the assigned "Fire" button/key on the PC ), and how hard the bit is pushed into lock using the left analog stick for controllers/pushing the mouse forward to push in or drawing it backwards to back off on PC.
After opening the deposit box, the crew will receive a three-star wanted level . They return to the Kuruma and Lester will say that he has paid a getaway guy , who is waiting for the crew at the Zancudo Bridge . There will be multiple police roadblocks along the way, consisting of Police Cruisers and Sheriff SUVs . The "getaway guy", Eddie Toh, will be piloting a Cargobob with an electromagnet. The players, matching speed with the Cargobob, drive below the magnet before being picked up and promptly escaping.
After the getaway, a cutscene is triggered where the crew arrives at the factory, with Lester stepping outside and receiving the deposit box from the driller. He congratulates the crew, stating that he will call them up again "if the thing that they talked about comes up", but warns them to "not get clingy".
After the cutscene, the mission is completed. The two players are then seen in a cutscene backed by Broken English's "Comin' on Strong", celebrating over a beer at the Tequi-la-la before leaving the place on their own, regaining control in Free Mode .
The bonus for completing the Elite Challenge in the Heist Finale is $ 50,000.
Crowd Control
All players
The Pacific Standard Job is the final part of the Pacific Standard Heist in Grand Theft Auto Online and also the last mission of the Heists strand.
A cutscene plays where Lester will brief the crew about the heist. At first, he seem to act a bit weird, but he then blames the new meds he took. He then resumes to the brief, where one group has to control the crowd while the rest of them should take care of the vault. The crew then splits into three roles: a Hacker, a Demolition player and two Crowd Control players.
The crew is instructed to go at the Pacific Standard bank . Lester instructs the Crowd Control team to control the crowd inside the bank, while the Hacker and Demolition player should get to the vault. He also insists that the crew not kill any civilians.
Once inside, a small cutscene plays, where one player locks the doors and the others prepare their masks and Special Carbines . Once the cutscene ends, the group plan their respective approaches.
The crew has to take the security guards and the Crowd Control team keeps the civilians in the room, so the police will not be alerted sooner than expected. They are instructed to not kill anyone, otherwise the situation will get worse. While the team takes care of the crowd, the Demolition player sets the thermal charges on two security gates, so they can burn the locks and open them. Once inside, more security guards will appear in an attempt to stop the crew.
Once down to the vault's level, the hacker must complete a hacking minigame to open the vault. A third security gate needs to be open with another thermal charge. Once inside, the Hacker and the Demolition player should work together to grab the cash from two carts. Security guards may appear while grabbing the cash, so one has to be prepared to take them out or let one of the Crowd Control team to do so.
Once the cash is stolen, the crew has to reunite at the bank entrance, where they have to plan the escape. The alarm is activated and a 5-star wanted level is triggered. Another cutscene plays where the LSPD (and NOOSE TRU , if the Crowd Control team fails to control the civilians or kills 2 or more civilians) arrive at the scene. One player will open the door before a bullet hits the door, showing the police's brutality. The crew then loads their Special Carbines to fight.
From the entrance, the crew can opt to switch their Special Carbines to any weapon of choice and take out any police officer from near the entrance. The crew is instructed to follow the getaway route, which leads to an alleyway near the bank. From there, several police officers will appear through the alleyway, as well as a few officers spawning behind the team once they enter the alleyway. After taking a turn to the right, more officers will appear near the GoPostal Building , so the crew have to take them out before reaching to the apartment building where the Lectros were left.
After reaching the bikes, the crew now has to make their getaway by sorting out several Police Cruisers , as well as roadblocks . The crew has to make use of the Lectro's KERS functionality to outrun any possible police unit and avoid roadblocks. Pursuing units can be dangerous, as one could be easily dismounted from the bike, thus losing valuable time. The crew then follows the set route to the canyon , where a few Sheriff SUVs with a single LSSD officer will spawn attempting to block the crew's path.
Once the crew managed to arrive at the canyon, they must navigate to the bridge, jump off the cliff, bail out of the bikes and parachute to the Dinghy , provided to escape via the river. Once all four players in the Dinghy go past the bridge, the driver of the the boat drives off and the heist ends once they crossed the bridge.
Lester congratulates and celebrates with the crew in jubilation over the success of the heist, complimenting them for being "creepy, quiet weirdos with talent". He will say that he will never forget the moments he shared with the crew, such as the picnic, hiking in the woods and taking a bunch of selfies, going rollerblading, watching the sunset and their sharings of their inner fears, and even skinny dipping before realizing that it was the wrong set of memories and that it never happened with him and the crew, to which he blames the drugs he took for being "a heavily-medicated man". Lester then resumes to wire the money to them on the laptop before bidding them farewell. The crew is shown looking toward the skyline of downtown Los Santos afterwards, before being moved back to the factory entrance and regaining control on Freemode .
Challenges:
The Doomsday Heist is a three-part Heist sequence introduced to Grand Theft Auto Online in The Doomsday Heist update.
This Heist can only be played while being in a CEO or VIP Organization or being in a Motorcycle Club and the CEO/VIP/MC President must own a Facility in order to start The Doomsday Heist.
Unlike previous heists , all missions in the Doomsday Heist can be completed with a minimum of two players (as opposed to the original Heists, which required four, with the exception of the Fleeca Job). In a crew with fewer members, members could receive a larger percentage of the payout during the Finale of each Act, although each Crew Member has a 15% Cut minimum of the Heist's earnings during the Finale regardless of crew size.
Unlike previous heists, the player is tasked to acquire the corresponding equipment to unlock a setup job. The equipment can be obtained through a Freemode Preparation mission, stealing it from rival Organizations / Motorcycle Clubs or purchasing them directly for $ 94,500.
Freemode Prep jobs are completely restricted to public Freemode sessions, meaning once the equipment is acquired, it will be revealed to rival Heist crews, so PvP action is expected to occur. Similarly, one can steal the equipment from rival Heist crews if they have the same prep jobs available and are in the same Act of the Doomsday Heist.
Note that Heist Prep jobs can be completed by the VIP/CEO/MC President themselves, although it is not very recommended because some prep jobs require two or more equipments, aside from the expected competition from rival Heist crews.
The following Awards are earned for completing gameplay milestones related to The Doomsday Heist content.
They can be tracked from the Pause Menu in Stats > Awards > The Doomsday Heist .
A new soundtrack was mixed for the Doomsday Heist. The soundtrack was created by Oh No and features stems reused and remixed from the original Heists update to reflect the heists in operation. Three different variations appear, each of which have 2 separate alternative versions which play exclusively during setup work.
Wanted Level is a feature in the Grand Theft Auto series which determines how much the player is wanted by the Law enforcement , and is treated differently throughout different games in the GTA series:
A Euros parked in front of a Pay 'n' Spray near Wang Cars in San Fierro .
Pay 'n' Spray is a spray shop / garage in which vehicles can be mended, repainted and have the engine repaired. It serves three main functions: to repair a vehicle, to change the paint color, and subsequently allow the player to lose wanted levels .
The Pay 'n' Spray is a spiritual successor to the Spray Shops in the original Grand Theft Auto and Max Paynt in Grand Theft Auto 2 , and has been featured in all Grand Theft Auto games since Grand Theft Auto III .
In the recent titles since Grand Theft Auto V , this feature is replaced by all in one respray and modifications shops.
Driving a damaged vehicle into a Pay 'n' Spray will repair all bodywork damage the vehicle has received, and will also respray the color of the car to a new one, although a few vehicles are only repaired. However, most emergency vehicles cannot be driven into a Pay 'n' Spray, as the player will receive messages such as: "WHOA! I don't touch anything THAT hot!" (in GTA III , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas ), "You gotta be kiddin'! I ain't touchin' that!" (in Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories ), "No way, man! I don't touch those!" (in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars ) or "They're not gonna respray THAT." (in Grand Theft Auto IV and Episodes from Liberty City ).
However, there are law enforcement vehicles that can be resprayed, depending on the game:
The Bus and the Coach throughout the 3D Universe cannot be resprayed either, displaying the same message as in the case of emergency vehicles. In addition, bicycles in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas also cannot be resprayed at Pay 'n' Spray, with the message being "I don't do toys!", although they can be resprayed in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Pay 'n' Spray allows the player to rapidly lose any wanted level. Visiting a Pay 'n' Spray after incurring a wanted level results in a gradual reduction in police attention. In GTA III , the full wanted level will immediately clear up, but in the other games, during this probationary time period (where wanted stars flash), if any crimes are committed, the full wanted level will be immediately reinstated. In Grand Theft Auto IV and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , the player can only enter a Pay n' Spray when they are out of sight of the police.
In all games, respraying an undamaged or lightly damaged vehicle is often free of charge, while respraying significantly damaged vehicle costs money . Additionally, when the player is taught how to use the Pay 'n' Spray in introductory missions, the visit would be free of cost.
The paint shop has a wide range of colors available, but the player may not choose which color the vehicle is being re-sprayed. The new color will always be one that can normally be encountered in traffic. In certain cases, particularly with special vehicles, the color will not change, but the police will no longer recognize the vehicle as if it had. In GTA San Andreas , custom paint jobs received from mod garages will not be removed. In GTA IV , the color is determined by the player's "favorite car color", as shown in the game stats .
Right after the vehicle is repaired, the player can receive a free re-spray in GTA Vice City , GTA San Andreas , GTA Liberty City Stories , and GTA Vice City Stories . If the player drives the repaired car out and back into Pay n Spray, the car receives a re-spray, and the message shows up, "Respray is complementary." or "Hope you like the new color." The messages can also be seen if the player drives an undamaged car without a wanted level into Pay 'n' Spray.
In the 3D Universe games, the respray and subsequent repair of a vehicle are near instant. However, starting with the HD Universe games, time will be advanced by three hours, except in multiplayer , where it is free and immediate, and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , where it only takes two in-game hours. It should be noted that if the player has arranged an activity with a friend or asked out a girlfriend , going to a Pay 'n' Spray will result in missing the activity/date.
Ammu-Nation may refer to:
A radio station is a broadcasting service that can be listened to in a vehicle or on a standalone radio player. They feature in every Grand Theft Auto game, and are accessible from almost any vehicle (except some such as bicycles or emergency vehicles ).
Most radio stations play songs with a DJ and commercials between them; other stations are primarily discussion-based. Emergency services channels are not considered radio stations. Emergency vehicles do not play public radio, except in multiplayer .
Each radio station focuses on one theme or music genre . Some PC versions have the functionality for Custom Radio Stations .
In Grand Theft Auto and its GTA London expansions, Grand Theft Auto 2 , Grand Theft Auto IV , and Grand Theft Auto V , radio audio is stored in uncompressed WAV files. In Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City , radio is stored in MP3 files, while Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , and Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars store radio audio in Ogg Vorbis files.
( See all )
Los Santos Customs is a vehicle customization and repair shop featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . The player can buy stocks from them at Bawsaq.com .
Their garages serve as a replacement for the Pay 'n' Spray shops featured in previous titles. Los Santos Customs is very similar to TransFender garages in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
The player is able to lose any wanted level by entering Los Santos Customs. However, if the player is spotted by the police while approaching the workshop, then the garage door will not open for the player. It is possible for the player to kill the mechanic inside while the garage door is open, allowing the player to walk in and explore freely. However, once the shop is exited, it will be closed until the player leaves the area.
The player can "stalk" Los Santos Customs on the real life Lifeinvader , and will receive an in-game coupon for a free respray.
Los Santos Customs is an obvious parody of West Coast Customs , a business located in Los Angeles offering similar services, popularized by the MTV show Pimp My Ride . West Coast Customs was also responsible for producing the real-life Banshee as part of the game's promotion.
There are four Los Santos Customs garages in San Andreas :
It is possible to enter all branches of Los Santos Customs (and Beeker's Garage ) on foot. The Los Santos Customs branch in Harmony and Beeker's Garage can both be accessed through a small side door to the left of the vehicle entrance, while the branches in Burton , La Mesa , and Los Santos International Airport must be accessed by parking a car far enough into the entrance that the door can't close, but not so far that the cutscene of the car entering is triggered, before getting out of the car and walking in.
The Harmony branch of the company is one of the properties available to be purchased by Franklin Clinton for $ 349,000 and generates a weekly income of $1,600. It is available to purchase after the mission Nervous Ron .
Upon purchasing the Harmony Los Santos Customs shop as Franklin, Hao will email the player regarding the purchase:
If Franklin purchases the Los Santos Customs garage on Route 68 , all vehicle modifications will be free, although only at that location and only for him. However, it is still possible to take advantage of this and customize other characters' Personal Vehicles for free (e.g. Michael 's Tailgater and Premier , Trevor 's Bodhi , Amanda 's Sentinel and Tracey 's Issi ). To do this, players need to acquire these vehicles as Franklin; in the case of Michael and Trevor, players will need to move them and their personal vehicle close to Franklin in the game world, before switching characters and taking the car as Franklin. Amanda's and Tracey's cars, meanwhile, can be found at the De Santa Residence .
Los Santos Customs serves to provide upgrades and modifications for land vehicles. Modifications are available for both aesthetics and performance. However, care must be taken with performance upgrades, as it is possible to modify some cars such that their power and torque are beyond a controllable amount; upgrading the vehicle's transmission is usually an effective counter to this. Los Santos Customs will also repair vehicles if required.
Throughout the game's progress, and as the players rank up in GTA Online , various types of car parts will be unlocked for purchase. Progressive performance upgrades are unlocked by winning races in GTA Online . There will be a small yellow star next to the category listing for any items that has been unlocked but not viewed.
Many of the modifications available for vehicles are based on real world aftermarket parts, particularly wheel rims. For example, the Endo V1 rims in the Sport section are based on VOLK TE37's, which are popular in the import scene.
These modifications do not change the performance of a vehicle, but merely its visual appearance. Note that some of these modifications are not available on all vehicles.
Modifications include:
† Pearlescent paint requires that a metallic paint base be applied first. A second color can then be selected under the Pearlescent option, adding a tint or hue to the car. Some combinations of colors work better than others, so some experimentation is recommended. A glitch allows pearlescent to be applied to chrome, matte and metal colours as well, along with crew, allowing for up to three different colours on a single car.
For some vehicles, further unique modifications can be applied. Examples include various truck beds on some pickups, fuel tanks, frames, sidesteps, bodywork and fenders. Some other vehicles (such as the Karin Rebel or the Declasse Tornado ) feature multiple variants, with each of these variants featuring unique mods that the other(s) cannot have.
Some motorcycles have unique modification possibilities as well. Examples of these include removable fairings and assorted frames, fuel tanks, seats, rear mudguards, handlebars, mirrors and saddle bags. Additionally, the player can choose the front and rear wheel of bikes independently. However, only the rims can be changed. Selecting custom tires on motorcycles always gives them whitewall tires, similarly to lowriders.
On some vehicles, the overstitches of the dashboard, steering wheel and seats matches the color applied on the rims. This modification can be seen on the Osiris and the Zentorno and some other vehicles sharing the same interior. Sometimes, primary colours affect the interior colour of a select few vehicles.
Bonus modifications (these modifications are available only in GTA Online ). These modifications include:
These modifications are available on all vehicles and affect their performance in some fashion.
Possible modifications include:
† After title update 1.14, spoilers positively affect the vehicle's traction. Some spoilers work better than others on certain vehicles. Downforce is heavily affected by spoilers.
Tornado (Mariachi beater version)
Baller (Second generation; includes the Baller LE and the Baller LE LWB for the Executives and Other Criminals update)
Carbon RS ( The Collector's Edition )
Casco ( Heists update)
Cavalcade (second generation)
Cognoscenti (Executives and Other Criminals update; includes the armored variant )
Cognoscenti 55 (Executives and Other Criminals update; includes the armored variant )
Cognoscenti Cabrio
Duke O'Death ( PS4 , Xbox One and PC versions; GTA V only)
Emperor (including the beater variant)
Faction (can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders )
Furore GT ( The Last Team Standing Update )
Hakuchou (The Last Team Standing Update)
Innovation (The Last Team Standing Update)
Insurgent (Heists update; non-armored version)
Lectro (Heists update)
Mesa (including the off-road variant )
Moonbeam (can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders)
Paradise (The Beach Bum Update )
Rebel (clean version)
Roosevelt (The Valentine's Day Massacre Special update)
Rumpo Custom ( Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update)
Slamvan ( Festive Surprise )
Sovereign ( The Independence Day Special update)
Space Docker (only the "bulletproof tires" can be modified)
Surfer (including the beater variant)
Super Diamond
Tornado (beater version)
Tow Truck (small only)
Voodoo (can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders; also restores the vehicle's overall condition)
Windsor ( Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 )
Windsor Drop (Further Adventures in Finance and Felony)
XLS (Further Adventures in Finance and Felony; including the armored variant )
Akuma (only features exhaust modifications)
Alpha ( The Business Update )
Baller (first generation)
Bestia GTS (Further Adventures in Finance and Felony)
Bifta (The Beach Bum Update)
Blade ( The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update )
Blista Compact (PS4, Xbox One and PC versions)
Brawler ( Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2 )
Buccaneer (can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders)
Carbonizzare
Cavalcade (first generation)
Chino (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2; can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders)
Coquette BlackFin (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2)
Coquette Classic ( The San Andreas Flight School Update )
Dubsta 6x6 (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Dukes (PS4, Xbox One and PC versions)
Enduro (Heists update; only features exhaust modifications)
FMJ (Further Adventures in Finance and Felony)
Fränken Stange ( Halloween Surprise )
Gang Burrito (Heists update; non-gang variant)
Glendale (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Guardian (Heists update; only features chrome exhaust modifications)
Hotknife (The Collector's Edition)
Huntley S ( The High Life Update )
Jester ( The Business Update ; race car variant in the Festive Surprise)
Kalahari (The Beach Bum Update)
Khamelion (The Collector's Edition)
Kuruma (Heists update; including the armored variant )
Landstalker
Lurcher (Halloween Surprise)
Mamba (GTA Online: Executives and Other Criminals)
Massacro (The High Life Update; race car variant in the Festive Surprise)
Nightshade (GTA Online: Executives and Other Criminals)
Oracle (second generation; only features exhaust modifications)
Osiris (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1)
Panto (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Pigalle (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Primo (can be upgraded further in Benny's Original Motor Works from Lowriders)
Rat Loader ( Rat-Truck in the Festive Surprise; does not include truck bed modifications)
Reaper (Further Adventures in Finance and Felony; only features spoiler modifications)
Rebel (beater version)
Rhapsody (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Sabre Turbo
Sandking SWB
Sandking XL
Schafter (includes the Schafter V12 and the Schafter LWB for the GTA Online: Executives and Other Criminals)
Sentinel XS
Stallion (PS4, Xbox One and PC versions; roof option now available as of Freemode Events Update )
Stirling GT (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1)
T20 (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2)
Tampa ( Festive Surprise 2015 )
Thrust (The High Life Update)
Tornado (clean version)
Turismo R (The Business Update)
Verlierer (GTA Online: Executives and Other Criminals)
Vindicator (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 2)
Virgo (Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1)
Warrener (The "I'm Not a Hipster" Update)
Zentorno (The High Life Update)
Zion Cabrio
Los Santos Customs works in the same way in Grand Theft Auto Online as it does in Grand Theft Auto V , with the added benefit of being a chop shop. Once per in-game day (48 real time minutes), players can deliver a vehicle to an LSC garage in Free Mode and sell it, receiving a cash payout in return. Assuming vehicles are delivered in undamaged condition, players will receive a payout equaling 10% of the car's retail value (the price for the car when new). For example, a car that can be purchased for $30,000 will net the player $3,000 at LSC.
It should be noted that vehicles with a retail value in excess of $100,000 can only be sold if they were legally purchased by the player (e.g. from Legendary Motorsport ). However, cheaper vehicles with a retail value of less than $100,000 can be stolen on the street and sold for profit. Motorcycles have a lower retail limit however. Taking a vehicle that cannot be sold to a chop shop will give the player a message that the vehicle is "too hot". There are visually modified gang vehicles that can be found in south and east Los Santos that will net a higher value payout.
Any personal vehicle purchased in GTA Online and later sold at Los Santos Customs will net 60% of the new cost and 50% of the value of any applied customization. When selling any vehicle with a tracker, the money will be banked immediately, whereas selling a hot car stolen from the street will put the funds in the player's carried wallet.
In the enhanced version , along with the previously mentioned "gang" modified vehicles, the player can commonly see other visually-modified vehicles spawning in some locations around the map. Most of these NPC pre-modified vehicles can be sold at LS Customs for a premium price, although some will still be "too hot". Currently active discounts on any of the parts used in the modifications will result in a relative reduction in the sale price.
Below is a list of vehicles in GTA Online . Note that the following values will only be given if the vehicle is in undamaged condition with no active discounts on their modification parts.
Yellow Purple Green Matte Red
Yellow Purple Green Silver
Yellow Purple Green Matte Green
Yellow Purple Green Blue
Yellow Purple Green Spinnaker Purple
* As of Los Santos Summer Special update patch 1.51, these vehicles can enter Los Santos Customs when on the Simeon Export List , but can only be resprayed (free), and using a pre-modified example does not impact the final export price at Simeon's Delivery Garage in Terminal .
For the full list of vehicle values, see Los Santos Customs Vehicle Prices .
The real life iFruit app allows the player to order modifications in GTA V and GTA Online , and create custom/vanity licence plates for the Personal Vehicles of their GTA Online Protagonist . A select amount of characters can be used on plates, although profane words are strangely allowed on plates.
The Maze Bank is a chain of banks in the HD Universe located in Los Santos . In Grand Theft Auto V , the player can buy stocks from the company in the Lcn-exchange.com website.
In Grand Theft Auto Online , it also runs Maze Bank Foreclosures (foreclosures.maze-bank.com), a website introduced in the Bikers update.
Its presence is predominant in Southern San Andreas with branches throughout the Los Santos Metropolitan Area. One of The Three Bankers works for the bank.
The headquarters of the company, the Maze Bank Tower , is located in Pillbox Hill , Downtown Los Santos . This skyscraper is the tallest building in San Andreas and the West Coast of the United States of America . The company also sponsors the Maze Bank Arena in La Puerta , the city's main stadium, and sponsors the Richards Majestic Productions film Meltdown .
The company Minotaur Finance is owned by Maze Bank according to the Avarice magazine.
In addition, both Michael De Santa and the GTA Online Protagonist hold bank accounts with the Maze Bank.
The main building is based on the real-life US Bank Tower in Los Angeles , and the bank itself is most likely an amalgamation of both US Bank and Chase Bank judging by its name and logo. The bank's logo looks similar to both the currency sign of the Israeli New Shekel (₪) as well as that of Cathay Bank . The bank's three-dimensional logo bears a resemblance to Enron 's logo.
The bank's official website is www.maze-bank.com . The player is able to make transactions on the website and view their transaction history as well. Michael De Santa and the GTA Online Protagonist have active accounts with the bank. However, Franklin Clinton and Trevor Philips cannot use the website as they do not have accounts with the bank (Franklin uses www.fleeca.com and Trevor www.thebankofliberty.com ), but they can still use Maze Bank ATMs to deposit or withdraw money .
dynasty8executiverealty.com
Dynasty 8 is a real estate company that appears in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
In Grand Theft Auto V , the player can buy business, garage, and hangar properties listed by Dynasty 8 throughout San Andreas by interacting with the "For Sale" signs outside the properties, although these purchases cannot be made via the in-game website.
In Grand Theft Auto Online , the player can buy residential and garage properties from the company either through their website or by engaging with the "For Sale" signs outside the properties.
Dynasty 8 also features a luxury arm known as Dynasty 8 Executive , which allows the player to purchase offices needed for SecuroServ Special Cargo , Vehicle Cargo and Special Vehicle Work , as well as agencies required for the Dr. Dre Contract , Security Contracts , and Payphone Hits .
The company appears to be a rendition of Century 21 Real Estate , given the similarities in name and its logo, which closely resembles the design used by Century 21 from 1991 to 2018.
dynasty8realestate.com is the company's main website featured in both Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The site is fully interactive in GTA Online . The map and list of properties will show as "unavailable" in GTA V .
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
Downtown Los Santos
North Los Santos
Downtown Los Santos
West Los Santos
West Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
East Los Santos
East Los Santos
East Los Santos
South Los Santos
South Los Santos
East Los Santos
North Los Santos
Blaine County
Blaine County
West Los Santos
North Los Santos
East Los Santos
North Los Santos
West Los Santos
West Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
South Los Santos
East Los Santos
South Los Santos
South Los Santos
East Los Santos
East Los Santos
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
North Los Santos
West Los Santos
West Los Santos
North Los Santos
West Los Santos
North Los Santos
Blaine County
South Los Santos
Blaine County
South Los Santos
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
Blaine County
East Los Santos
Warstock Cache & Carry is a business in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . The player can purchase military vehicles from their website at warstock-cache-and-carry.com .
Warstock Cache & Carry is a business that sells military and utility equipment, vehicles, and more. The player can buy their products off their website.
They sell off-road vehicles, tanks, airplanes, and helicopters. Aside from their standard military equipment, they also sell heavy-duty vehicles such as the Bus and Mule in Grand Theft Auto Online . Due to the majority of vehicles having liveries or camo schemes, the player cannot select the color of their purchase, unlike Legendary Motorsport or Southern San Andreas Super Autos .
The player can receive a one-time 10% discount from Warstock Cache & Carry by creating a Rockstar Games Social Club account and stalking the store on Lifeinvader . [ vague vague GTAV or GTA Online? ]
An Lifeinvader advert indicates that the website stocked a cut attack helicopter resembling the Hunter (which was later added to the site as part of the Smuggler's Run update for GTA Online ), as well as a military pick-up truck known as the Squaddie (which was added to the site as part of The Cayo Perico Heist update for GTA Online ). The Barracks is also depicted with a full canvas on on the advertisement (as well as on the in-game site prior to the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 update), while the Titan bears a white camo livery.
The website's name in several texture files is Warmart [ 1 ] , likely the beta name for the site.
In the enhanced versions of the game, players joining Grand Theft Auto Online sessions after the Gunrunning update are notified via email (as well as on the in-game HUD) that exclusive vehicle properties are available to purchase:
Former notifications:
In the enhanced versions of the game, as part of The Diamond Casino & Resort update, players have a chance [ vague vague what %? ] of winning an exclusive 10% discount on their next purchase of any vehicle on the website with a spin of the Lucky Wheel at The Diamond Casino & Resort .
The Ardent and the Nightshark are the only two vehicles available on the site which offer color options upon purchase.
Numerous vehicles were planned to be available for sale in the site, but cut during development:
Read more >
Read more >
Read more >
Read more >
Advertisement on Lifeinvader .
The Warstock Cache & Carry website before Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 .
The Warstock Cache & Carry website after Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 .
Front page of the Warstock Cache & Carry website in GTA V as of 2024 .
Front page of the Warstock Cache & Carry website in GTA Online as of 2024 .
Legendary Motorsport is a vehicle sales business featured in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The company sells super cars as well as classic and rare vehicles, via their website, legendarymotorsport.net . There is no office or dealership in game.
In Grand Theft Auto Online , the Legendary Motorsport website features a much broader selection of vehicles the player can purchase, most of which cost upwards of $ 100,000. This is because the player cannot modify stolen vehicles upwards of $100,000, and the majority of vehicles would be unobtainable otherwise.
DLC vehicles added before the enhanced re-release can be purchased on this site in the enhanced version of the game, instead of spawning as a special vehicle in the player's garage.
Legendary Motorsports is frequently updated with new vehicles added in updates . They are generally ordered by DLC release and alphabetical order.
{{WebVehicleModule |dlc = mpbusiness |image = TurismoR-GTAV-LegendaryMS.png |manufacturer = Grotti |name = Turismo R |capacity = 2 |price = $500,000 |availability = Free for [[Criminal Enterprise Starter Pack] owners. }}
Southern San Andreas Super Autos is a vehicles sales business in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . The player can purchase vehicles from them via their website southernsanandreassuperautos.com .
The webpage cover prior to the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 update.
The Southern San Andreas Super Autos webpage after the Ill-Gotten Gains Part 1 update.
The Southern San Andreas Super Autos webpage in GTA Online after the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update.
The Southern San Andreas Super Autos webpage in GTA Online after The Criminal Enterprises update.
Front page of the Southern San Andreas Super Autos website in GTA V as of 2024 .
Front page of the Southern San Andreas Super Autos website in GTA Online as of 2024 .
Cluckin' Bell is a fast food restaurant chain appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
Burger Shot is a fast food restaurant chain appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
Sprunk is a soft drink beverage brand appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
eCola is a soft drink beverage brand appearing throughout the Grand Theft Auto series:
Redwood Cigarettes are a tobacco company featured in the 3D Universe and the HD Universe . The player can buy stocks from them on the Lcn-exchange.com website in Grand Theft Auto V .
In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , it appears on numerous billboards and advertisements on the radio stations . In the ads, it mentions that it "helps cure stress". Ironically, the company is the official sponsor of the Los Santos City Marathon.
In Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , the brand is mentioned as part of an Ammu-Nation radio advertisement (alongside with Logger Beer ).
In Grand Theft Auto IV and its episodes , there is a website for Redwood Cigarettes which can be accessed using any computer. On the website, a cowboy is featured on the top banner, a reference to the Marlboro Man . It sponsors the #86 Bati Custom motorcycle in The Lost and Damned and The Ballad of Gay Tony . There is also a billboard poster for Redwood Cigarettes in Cerveza Heights , as of Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars . Several Redwood crates are located inside the Chase Point Warehouse .
Redwood Cigarettes is shown to have existed as far back as 1947 , where they advertised smoking for children, as well as having used product placement in an episode of Moorehead Rides Again! . Their vintage mascot appears to have been a stereotypical red-faced Indian (a nod to the use of Native Americans in vintage cigarette advertising). By 2013 , they seem to be involved in corrupt political practices, hiring four corrupt jurors to defend the company at a hearing.
In GTA IV , Redwood Cigarettes appear to utilise the Yankee as a delivery vehicle, as it can come with a Redwood livery.
Like its real-life counterparts, Redwood is also involved in sponsoring racing activities, having its name in the Redwood Lights Track , a place popular for off-road races. In GTA V and GTA Online , the Redwood Cigarettes livery is available on numerous vehicles, including the ready-made Redwood Gauntlet , and as a customisable feature on the Bati 801RR , Elegy Retro Custom , Itali GTB Custom and Sultan RS , and is prominently labeled on the Retro Rally Omnis livery for the Omnis . Its racing liveries are mostly based around the company colors of red, white and yellow and typically feature a red diagonal stripe down the sides of the vehicle.
In 1984 , during the events of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the company introduced Redwood Juniors, a brand of candy cigarettes intended to market the real product towards children. Each pack contains 20 candy cigarettes. There are many Redwood Juniors billboards and benches throughout Vice City, featuring the slogan "Junior's Gotta Start Sometime!". There is also a large replica of a Redwood Juniors pack atop the Verdi Groceries store in Little Havana .
The radio commercial for Redwood Juniors, featuring children smoking their cigarettes, seems to reference an actual Winston commercial that featured Fred and Barney from The Flintstones smoking cigarettes.
In the HD Universe, Redwood Juniors are still advertised on the company's website .
Redwood Gold is a gold filtered cigarette variant of Redwood, advertised as an alternative to vaping. Its tagline is: "Vaping Is For Losers - Real Men Go For Gold" which can be seen advertised in Grand Theft Auto Online during Arena War matches. This variant also features a new different logo typeface of Redwood with a native American chief figure as part of the branding, these appear to be the same from a vintage Redwood billboard in Sandy Shores .
Redwood is likely based on Marlboro and Winston . The logo bears a close resemblance to Winston in typeface, colour scheme, and design. Several of the motorsport liveries for many racing vehicles are based on real life Marlboro- and Winston-sponsored vehicles. The name may be based on the redwood trees.
During the storyline, Redwood faces a big lawsuit against their cigarettes. They have paid off four jurors to testify in their favor during the trial. Lester then sends Franklin to kill the 4 corrupt jurors in the mission The Multi Target Assassination . With all four of the jurors dead, Redwood loses the lawsuit, making their stocks suffer a huge drop in value.
In By the Book to kill Javan you need to have Ferdinand Kerimov identify him. Javan smokes Redwoods, has a beard, and is average height and size.
After completing the mission The Multi Target Assassination , invest all the money of the protagonists in Redwood stocks, wait 2-3 days until their price returns to the pre-mission value, and sell all their stocks for a 300% return.
When playing Grand Theft Auto Online , the player may smoke Redwoods at any given time in the game. All the player needs to do is to buy a pack of them in any store. One package of ten cigarettes costs six dollars, and smoking will damage the player's health . However, the damage is so small, it's completely negligible.
Redwood Cigarettes appears as Tobacco supplies that can be stolen in Special Cargo and Air Freight Cargo missions in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Redwood Homepage.
Redwood Cigarettes has a website at redwoodcigarettes.com , present in Grand Theft Auto IV .
As expected, the site encourages the consumption of the product, emphazising in manliness, masculinity and a macho pose while minimizing or ridiculizing the health risks.
It has a small section dedicated to Redwood Juniors, promotional items like beach towels and a link to Tobaccofacts.net .
$38,150 ( GTA Online )
The Vom Feuer Heavy Sniper is a semi-automatic sniper rifle that makes its debut appearance in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The weapon is based on the high caliber Barrett M82 rifle , more specifically the M107, but with a stock reminiscent to the OSV-96 , a similar rifle to the aforementioned Barrett. The heavy sniper features a full-length picatinny rail reminiscent of the M82A3, though it is elevated instead of having it integrated into the handguard, similarly to the M82A1. The model has a large muzzle brake , which appears to be from the M82A1/M107, but slightly altered.
According to the text on the weapon, the Heavy Sniper is property of the United States Government.
Thanks to the employment of .50 BMG cartridges, the Heavy Sniper is capable of causing a very high damage per shot, and is able to one-hit kill players in the chest up to rank 99. The Heavy Sniper is also able to do heavy damage to vehicles, being able to destroy the tail rotor of a helicopter in two shots. As a result, this weapon is a significant improvement over the standard Sniper Rifle , with a superior fire rate of 50 RPM compared to the sniper rifle's 38 (although the fire rate is much slower than the Combat Sniper from the previous games). However, this weapon cannot equip a suppressor (unlike the standard sniper rifle), making it impossible to be used as a stealth weapon. Moreover, the low magazine capacity of six rounds may prove to be a downside at times, forcing the player to reload after a few shots. Consequently, it might be avoided for when the player needs to perform stealth kills at long range.
The Heavy Sniper has the second highest damage of any bullet weapon, only outclassed by the Marksman Pistol . However, the Pump Shotgun and the Sawed-Off Shotgun are capable of dealing more damage assuming all pellets of a shot hit the target, at the expense of being a close-range weapon. Its power accurately represents its role as an anti-materiel rifle .
162 162 LightArmor modifier 216 216 Default 300 300 Multiplayer modifier (player)
1500 / 4921.2 (Weapon)
The Heavy Sniper on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Franklin aiming the Heavy Sniper .
The Heavy Sniper seen in a picture photo.
Buying a golden tint for the Heavy Sniper at Ammu-Nation .
Michael with his Heavy Sniper .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , enhanced version .
$ 5,000 (GTA Online)
The Vom Feuer AP Pistol ( A rmor- P iercing Pistol) is a weapon in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The AP Pistol appears to resemble the Colt SCAMP , albeit with the depiction of a traditional slide. It also has a trigger and grips similar to those of modern M1911 pistols.
The AP Pistol is a striker-fired fully-automatic machine pistol that acts much like the Automatic 9mm from The Lost and Damned . The gun is seen being used by Franklin Clinton in the official gameplay trailer.
According to the markings, the AP Pistol is chambered for 9x18 rounds, which would refer to the 9×18mm Makarov cartridge.
Unlike the Auto 9mm, the AP Pistol is much more accurate, and has a lighter recoil, which can be lightened even more with a suppressor attachment. It has an 18-round magazine with the option to extend to 36 rounds. Due to its high accuracy, high rate of fire, common ammo, high power, and having a large magazine size (with extended clip), it is arguably the best drive-by weapon in the game. It is all-round superior to the Micro SMG due to the higher rate of fire, much better accuracy in sustained fire, and slightly higher magazine capacity. However, the Micro SMG is the weapon equipped by default during drive-by's, needing several weapon changes to equip the AP Pistol, although this can be fixed in Grand Theft Auto Online by simply tossing all other drive-by weapons or storing them in the gun locker of an office , warehouse , clubhouse , bunker , Mobile Operations Center , facility , Avenger , nightclub , Arena Workshop , penthouse , arcade , auto shop or agency .
18.8 18.8 LightArmor modifier 25 25 Default 50 50 Headshot modifier (multiplayer)
The AP Pistol on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Michael using a slightly differently modeled AP Pistol in an early development screenshot of Three's Company .
Franklin using the AP Pistol .
Trevor with his AP Pistol .
Franklin performing a drive-by with an AP Pistol whilst riding a Bati 801RR .
A GTA Online player armed with the AP Pistol .
Gilded Gun Metal Finish on the AP Pistol .
An NPC armed with the AP Pistol in the Business Supplies Steal Mission: Colombian Flake in GTA Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , enhanced version.
Aiming down the sights
$3,700 ( GTA V )
$14,800 ( GTA Online )
The Combat MG , formerly known as the M249 and Advanced MG , is a light machine gun featured in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories , the M249, as the name suggests, is based on the FN M249 , specifically the model with an early flash hider and steel tubular stock. This rendition of the weapon is considered a Heavy Weapon.
Unlike the M60 from Grand Theft Auto: Vice City and Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories , the M249 has a unique firing and reloading animation, no longer copied from the assault rifle animation.
The M249 in The Ballad of Gay Tony (referred to as the Advanced MG ) is the first light machine gun to be featured in the HD Universe . It is now based on a later FN M249 version with an improved handguard and plastic stock.
The weapon is placed in the assault rifle slot and thus, the character will be able to wield it while riding a helicopter or boat (both as a passenger). Although hard to see, it is possible to see an "M249" reading etched on the side of the weapon.
The weapon returns in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as the Combat MG . It is now based on the Mk 48 machine gun , a larger-caliber derivative of the M249; this is also suggested by the side of the weapon reading " 7.62mm ". The model has the STANAG magazine adaptor of an M249, a very short barrel, a fictional handguard, and the stock of an M60 machine gun .
Unlike previous iterations of the weapon, the Combat MG lacks a folding bipod, and instead features Picatinny Rails for a wide variety of attachments . The weapon is now considered a Machine Gun and thus, it is able to be used by passengers of certain vehicles with enough room (i.e. helicopter bays, truck beds, while hanging on a side of a vehicle, etc.). The Combat MG also suffers in stealth due to the fact that it has a slightly lower fire rate when discharged from the hip, and lacks a suppressor attachment.
The weapon is a powerful, one shot kill gun that holds 100 rounds per magazine, and is capable of knocking down a person when hit (similar to the way shotguns do), but is slightly less effective than the Minigun . Victims shot with this weapon will release a higher amount of splattering blood than they do if shot by other machine guns. Since it is a heavy weapon, it can destroy unarmored vehicles quickly.
The Advanced MG employs a 200-round magazine capacity and high rate of fire, but has less stopping power and accuracy than the Assault Rifle and the Carbine Rifle . It is highly inaccurate because the weapon is fired from the hip rather than from the shoulder, causing high recoil when firing. The Advanced MG requires sustained fire to destroy a vehicle, unlike the LMGs from previous games, which could destroy vehicles with just a few rounds.
The weapon is best suited for engaging multiple enemies at close to medium range, but suffers in long range combat, being outclassed by the other rifles and even SMGs . While still able to aim targets at long distances, the gun will often miss it unless if fired in short bursts. Crouching will also help at reducing the recoil, decreasing the chances of missing the target. As such, the MG is best used at close ranges, where spraying at targets won't be as much of an issue. At longer ranges, tap firing is incredibly accurate, but it still does less damage than the AK47, which is the most damaging assault rifle in the game.
400 RPM [?] [?] When falling or being burned
The Combat MG is all-round superior to SMGs, the Assault Rifle, and the MG with a base damage of 45. It shoots further, but with less accuracy than the Carbine Rifle. Its recoil is also notably lighter than the MG and even its TBoGT counterpart, due to the reduced rate of fire. However, it is somewhat slow at reloading and the wielder usually has low mobility. It can shoot down almost any aircraft thanks to its 100-round (200 with extended clip) magazine.
With the appropriate attachments , the Combat MG can have increased accuracy and reduced recoil, leading to an efficiency that is better than that of most bullet-based weapons. As such, it is an excellent and all-around powerful weapon that can outperform most weapons in a variety of situations. It has a rather quick reload speed as well, increasing close-quarters performance. However, it is easily outgunned at longer ranges by specialized weapons, such as sniper rifles and the minigun, and shotguns at close range.
33.8 33.8 LightArmor modifier 45 45 Default 76.5 76.5 Headshot modifier (multiplayer)
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories . ( Bullet belt side view )
The Ballad of Gay Tony .
The Combat MG on Rockstar Games Social Club ( Grand Theft Auto V ).
Grand Theft Auto V , beta model.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
The Ballad of Gay Tony .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , Enhanced Version .
Aiming down the sights.
Victor Vance running with an M249 in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories .
Luis with an Advanced MG in The Ballad of Gay Tony .
Franklin with his Combat MG .
The Combat MG in Grand Theft Auto V .
GTA V detailing (7.62mm). Also note the adaptor under the belt feed tray.
Etched Gun Metal Finish on the Combat MG .
The Vom Feuer Special Carbine is an assault rifle appearing in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Business Update .
The Carbine is visually based on the Heckler & Koch G36C . The handguard is a similar size and shape to that of the G36C, but the vent holes are lower down that of the H&K, meaning space for six instead of two per side. The picatinny rail carry handle is more linear than those of the G36 family, but is derived from the G36C variant. The assault rifle features a pistol grip with three thumb grooves, unlike any German assault rifle in production in 2013. The magazine's shape is rectangular, inspired by 7.62 Galil variant's magazines, which is odd considering the use of 5.56mm ammunition. The front sight is very different than that of the actual G36C's, in that it lacks the circular, round front sights seen in other Heckler & Koch weapons such as the Heckler & Koch MP5 and HK416 . Instead of the G36's ambidextrous charging handle that lies flush with the body, the Special Carbine has a charging handle that juts out on both sides of the weapon in the same location.
Although the weapon can only fire in full-automatic, there is a double-sided fire selector with small icons on it, which " X " is the safe position, " > " is semi-automatic and " >> " is full-automatic.
Chambered in 5.56mm, the weapon has very high damage per second, equal to that of the Gusenberg Sweeper , meaning higher than the Carbine Rifle and Assault Rifle (higher damage per shot), but lower than the Advanced Rifle (lower rate of fire) and both the MG (lower damage per shot) and Combat MG (lower damage per shot and rate of fire in RPM). Accuracy is high, equal to that of the Carbine Rifle. While very powerful and accurate, the Special Carbine has slightly less effective range than other assault rifles, which can limit its effectiveness at longer ranges, though its accuracy somewhat makes up for this.
The weapon by default has a 30-round magazine, which can be replaced with a 60-round magazine. In Grand Theft Auto Online , as of the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, it can be further upgraded with a 100-round box magazine, which offers as much suppression fire as an MG with "Extended Clip" or a Combat MG with "Default Clip", at the cost of a slightly increased reload time.
The Special Carbine also has a unique knocking firing sound, which seems to have more impact force than other assault rifles, hence the fact that it deals more damage than most of them.
24 24 LightArmor modifier 32 32 Default 54.4 54.4 Headshot modifier (multiplayer)
60-round standard magazine (Extended magazine) 100-round dual-drum magazine (Drum magazine)
A player wielding the Special Carbine .
The Special Carbine on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Special Carbine at Ammu-Nation.
The Special Carbine in First Person Mode.
Special Carbine in GTA Online .
Michael De Santa holding his Special Carbine with a scope, grip and extended magazine.
The Special Carbine fitted with a Drum Magazine, as seen in the GTA Online: Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update trailer.
Etched Gun Metal Finish on the Special Carbine .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , enhanced version.
Down the sights
Reloading (Drum Magazine)
The Assault Rifle is, as the name implies, an assault rifle appearing in Grand Theft Auto IV , Episodes from Liberty City , Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online . It is manufactured by Shrewsbury in GTA V and GTA Online .
The weapon is an evolution of the AK appearing in the 3D Universe . Like the AK, in all of its appearances, the Assault Rifle is designed after the real-world AK-47 or one of its many variants.
The Grand Theft Auto IV rendition is mostly an accurate representation of the AK-47 in size and look, although some pins on the receiver are depicted at the wrong place, the fire selector is on safe, and the bolt carrier group is missing a handle. Since its appearance in the HD Universe , it is named Assault Rifle .
The Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars rendition appears to be a regular AK-47. The upper handguard of the weapon has been removed, revealing the gas tube. These details are shown when it is found in a Dustbin.
The Grand Theft Auto V and Online rendition is based on the Type 56-2 , a Chinese version of the AK-47 fitted with a side-folding stock. However, it is depicted with a gas block similar to that of the AK-74 and the AK-103 .
It no longer features wooden detailing, and is fitted with Picatinny rails for attachments .
As part of the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, there is a unique Drum Magazine option that resembles 75-round AK magazines (although 100-round drum mags exist as well, which are more cylindrical).
Like almost all other guns, this weapon ensures a 1 headshot kill in single player and in multiplayer , a 2 headshot kill. The Assault Rifle has greater power, in contrast to the Carbine Rifle 's greater accuracy as it will take 4 shots to put enemy NPCs in a wounded state while another 4 shots will kill them, netting a total of 8 shots. The extra firepower is not much in comparison to the Carbine Rifle and is not required since a single headshot from any weapon will kill any enemy. The Assault Rifle in GTA IV strangely has two reload animations. When Niko is standing while reloading, he will cock the gun with his left hand, but when he is crouching while reloading, he will take "out" the magazine, puts "another" one in and cocks the gun. It is unknown why two reloading animations are present. These two reloading animations are also present with the Carbine Rifle and the Assault Shotgun .
In Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , the Assault Rifle is weaker than the Carbine Rifle. It also has less accuracy and fire rate than the aforementioned weapon, resulting in a low efficiency weapon. At early stages of the game, the Assault Rifle proves to be useful for long-range assaults and performs better than handguns and submachine guns, but at later stages, it is easily outclassed by other assault rifles.
The weapon by default has a 30-round magazine, which can be replaced with a 60-round magazine. In Grand Theft Auto Online , as of the Further Adventures in Finance and Felony update, it can be further upgraded with a 100-round drum magazine, which offers as much suppression fire as an MG with "Extended Clip" or a Combat MG with "Default Clip", at the cost of a slightly increased reload time.
An Assault Rifle Mk II in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Wielder's first-person view
Wielder's first-person view while aiming
Wielder's first-person view while aiming down sights
Wielder's first-person view while reloading with Drum Magazine
Yusuf Amir Luxury Finish on the Assault Rifle in GTA V and GTA Online .
The Assault Rifle on the Rockstar Games Social Club in GTA V and GTA Online .
HUD icon for the Assault Rifle in GTA IV .
HUD icon for the Assault Rifle in GTA Chinatown Wars .
HUD icon for the Assault Rifle in the original version of GTA V and GTA Online .
HUD icon for the Assault Rifle in the enhanced versions of GTA V and GTA Online .
Niko Bellic wielding the Assault Rifle in GTA IV .
Michael De Santa holding a customized Assault Rifle in Grand Theft Auto V , during The Jewel Store Job .
Franklin Clinton with an Assault Rifle .
The Assault Rifle at Ammu-Nation .
Assault Rifle striped apart poster at Ammu-Nation in GTA V .
A crate of unloaded Assault Rifles in the GTA Online Protagonist 's office. Notice the green tint.
A mobster with an AK-47 in GTA IV ..
Assault Rifle artwork in the aforementioned mission.
Michael and Franklin preparing their Assault Rifles .
The Assault Rifle in the hands of Trevor . This one appears to lack a stock.
A target using an Assault Rifle .
A character firing an Assault Rifle .
Raton Canyon location.
Weapon pickups map including an Assault Rifle location in Grand Theft Auto V .
The Rocket Launcher (also referred to as the RPG ) is a rocket-propelled heavy weapon appearing in every game in the Grand Theft Auto series:
$ 15,500 ( GTA V , X1/PS4/PC)
$75,000 ( GTA Online )
The Hawk & Little Homing Launcher is a weapon that appears in Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , as part of the Festive Surprise update.
The weapon is a shoulder-fired surface-to-air (SAM) missile launcher based on the SA-7 Grail , though it has a tracking antenna and trigger guard from a FIM-92 Stinger . The launcher's warhead is also exposed, instead of housed in the tube.
It has the unique ability of targeting vehicles, both ground and air. Its targeting system is similar to the missiles found on some weaponized aircraft, being able to lock-on to selected targets indicated by an outlined box. It can also be fired freely without any targets. As such, it is similar to the Heat Seeking Rocket Launcher from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas .
According to the text on the side of the weapon, the Homing Launcher is property of the San Andreas Government.
The Homing Launcher has an incredibly long range; it can lock on to vehicles 300 meters away, and the missile has a maximum range of 1,080 meters before it self destructs in ten seconds, being able to follow fighter jets for a very long distance, surpassing all missiles/rockets (including mounted rockets on vehicles), with the exception of the missiles fired by the Chernobog . The projectiles fired by the Homing Launcher are very fast (108 m/s or 388.8kph) and can easily chase down a P-996 LAZER in flight. The missiles can destroy or disable aircraft in only one hit, making them the best weapon to use against aircraft, alongside the Minigun and the Railgun . The missile is most effective at pursuing escaping enemies, as approaching ones will have a much easier time dodging the missile. However, it takes two seconds to acquire lock-on to a target. Additionally, it can carry only 10 rockets instead of 20 unlike the normal RPG . Homing Launcher missiles locked onto a player-controlled aircraft (especially noted with helicopters) is able to sweep back around when it misses its target the first time. Additionally, rockets fired at stronger vehicles (such as the Rhino Tank , Cargobob , etc.) by the Homing Launcher may cause fire to be spread onto the vehicle. Although this can avoid explosion, it can still cause damage to the vehicle, especially aircraft.
A well-shot missile is likely a death sentence for unarmored helicopters and slow planes. However, an experienced pilot in a fighter jet will easily dodge its shots, although they will probably break off their attack while missiles are in air in order to get rid of them.
Unlike the Rocket Launcher however, the explosion damage against vehicles is lower and, as such, vehicle explosion is not guaranteed when hitting an aircraft or an armored helicopter such as the Cargobob . It will, at least, destroy the engine (in the case of aircraft with multiple engines, one of the two) and may even blow parts off, making piloting the said vehicle much harder. It will take three times the amount to destroy certain vehicles like the Insurgent , which requires 23 homing missiles rather than eight RPG rockets to blow it up, due to a flag that does not inflict extra petrol tank damage. These missiles share the same blast radius similar to the Rocket Launcher and most explosives (five meters), and are still lethal if caught anywhere in the explosion.
The Homing Launcher has been rebalanced in the Heists update to have increased reload times, reduced firing rate, and an increase to the resilience of large capacity planes against it. Additionally, it appears to be less effective compared to the rockets fired from a Ruiner 2000 ( Import/Export ).
500 (direct) 50 (edge)
The Homing Launcher on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Franklin with his Homing Launcher .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online , enhanced version.
Down the sights.
Promotional artwork featuring the Homing Launcher .
A player wielding a Homing Launcher , seen in the official artwork for Oscar Guzman Flies Again .
$400 ( GTA V )
$600 ( GTA Online )
Sticky Bombs are throwable explosives featured in The Ballad of Gay Tony , Grand Theft Auto V and Grand Theft Auto Online .
The Sticky Bomb is a C-4 -like explosive with a tripwire-triggered mechanism taped onto it. When thrown, the bombs emit a steady beep and a yellow light flashes. When activated the beep rises in pitch and speed, and the light turns red, then after less than a second, they detonate.
The Sticky Bomb gains a new design and is now comprised of two M112 C-4 explosive sticks with a remote-controlled time bomb taped onto it. There is a small red light attached to the device to help mark it when placed and, like in its previous iteration, emits a steady beep, though not as noisy.
The Sticky Bomb has the primary advantage of being a controlled explosive and having a controlled detonation, making it useful for timing explosives when the target is on the blast radius, which is similar to that of a grenade . As expected from its name, they can be thrown and stick to any surface they hit, which gives it another advantage over grenades as there is no need to be concerned they might bounce away from the target and either miss or worse, come back to the player and kill them in the process. Unlike Satchel Charges from Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , these bombs do not stick to people. They can then be detonated by pressing Down on the D-pad or shooting them.
Up to 10 Sticky Bombs (2 in multiplayer) can be placed; throwing out the 11 th (3 rd in multiplayer) will cause the first one to disappear. The bombs have a 90 second fuse, so if an armed bomb is left undetonated for 90 seconds, it will automatically detonate. If the player is in a vehicle of any kind and they try to hold the sticky bomb until it detonates, it will not explode even after 90 seconds has gone by. It will start to beep slowly, and after about 60 seconds the beeping will get faster, but it will still not explode. If the player throws it out after holding it for a long time, the timer will reset as it is thrown out, so holding the bomb will not affect the time it takes to detonate.
Because of the beeping sound and the yellow light, the player might take difficulties to take out other players, as they can see or hear the bomb and they might either avoid passing over there or destroying them with another weapon, so the player may need to find alternatives. One of the best methods is that the player just need to open a car door (preferably to the side other players do not use to enter the vehicle) and stick the bomb to the inside of the door, so when the door closes, the bomb is inside the vehicle. This prevents other players from seeing the bomb.
The Sticky Bomb is no different from the TBOGT iteration. Although they cannot stick to pedestrians in Story Mode, they can stick to them, as well as other players in Online. The limit for placed bombs has been amplified to 20 (5 in Grand Theft Auto Online ). When the limit is reached, a message appears on the screen indicating it, and, like in TBOGT , the first one disappears when the 21 st (6 th in GTA Online ) is placed. Unlike in TBOGT , they will not explode over time.
Sticky Bombs can be used as a cheaper replacement for the car bomb in GTA Online . The player just need to open a car door (preferably to the side other players do not use to enter the vehicle) and stick the bomb to the inside of the door, so when the door closes, the bomb is inside the vehicle. This prevents other players from seeing the bomb, by applying the car bomb trick mentioned above, they can ensure no other players can see them.
The weapon can be useful in drive-bys, due to the fact it deals a large amount of damage, can stick to any vehicle, and can be detonated at any time (which allows them to be used somewhat like landmines). However, the player must be careful to ensure that their own car does not get caught in the blast radius, if using them against a vehicle in close proximity. Another factor to take in mind is how fragile they are, as shooting them will cause them to explode. If they are placed onto a vertical surface and rammed by a car, they will detonate. When armed, the Sticky Bomb will explode when shot from the player's hand; the vehicle they are inside will be destroyed, regardless if the vehicle has any sort of protection to explosions.
Sticky Bombs are more damaging against tanks, inflicting 28.57% more than any normal explosion. The Rhino (in free roam) can be destroyed with three Sticky Bombs, while the TM-02 Khanjali / APC can be destroyed with six Sticky Bombs.
The Ballad of Gay Tony .
A "Fire Bomb" featured in The Bureau Raid , using a vertically stretched model of the TBOGT sticky bomb ( PS3 and Xbox 360 versions).
Franklin with a Sticky Bomb .
The Ballad of Gay Tony .
Grand Theft Auto V .
Grand Theft Auto V , enhanced version .
Holding a Sticky Bomb .
Aiming with a Sticky Bomb .
Weapon pickups map including the Sticky Bombs house construction location in Grand Theft Auto V .
The Hawk & Little Heavy Revolver is a weapon in Grand Theft Auto Online , added as part of the Executives and Other Criminals update.
The Heavy Revolver takes the form of the ASG Dan Wesson series of CO2-powered .177 pellet and/or airsoft revolver replicas, with some elements of the Taurus Raging Bull , such as the barrel.
The Heavy Revolver's role in the game is very reminiscent of the Python first seen in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City .
Depending of the player's occupation in an organization, there are two different paint options for the weapon: the "Bodyguard" version, having a slightly darker grey finish with a brown grip and the "VIP" version; having a golden finish with a black grip.
The Heavy Revolver is a powerful handgun, more so than the Pistol .50 , but less than the Marksman Pistol . The Heavy Revolver is a single-action revolver, which means that the hammer must be cocked manually. It is powerful enough to reduce a high-ranking player's health to half as well as to set a non-armored car engine aflame in four shots or destroy it in two shots, if aiming at the fuel tank. However, it is used in single-action mode, operating very slowly at 1.8 seconds per shot. Like with a majority of revolver-design handguns, it has a 6-round cylinder. It cannot be equipped with any attachments .
The revolver, thanks to its high damage per shot and a 60% bonus damage against vehicles, causes 256 damage per shot on vehicles. Since most land vehicles have 1000 damage points in the engine (before burning) and 330 on the oil reservoir (before explosion), which is typically located in front of the rear wheel of the driver side, it can set a vehicle ablaze in 4 shots in the engine block or explode a vehicle in 2 shots in the oil reservoir. If a vehicle has 100% armor protection, one respectively needs 8 and 3 shots. It also can destroy helicopter's rear rotor blades in 2 shots. The damage does not decrease with distance, up to its maximal range of 120 metres (which is the same as most weapons). However, it is not the fastest non-explosive weapon to give that result. Many automatic weapons deal higher damage per second, especially at close range (the Combat MG takes roughly one second of automatic fire in the oil reservoir to make a non-armored car explode, while it takes 1.8 second between 2 revolver shots), and the Heavy Sniper can shoot faster, at a much longer range and an easier long range aiming thanks to its scope, for similar damage per shot. Still, the Heavy Revolver can be a good choice for its versatility.
120 120 LightArmor modifier 160 160 Default 256 256 Damage modifier (vehicle)
120 / 393.7 (Weapon)
120 / 393.7 (Weapon)
The Heavy Revolver on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Holding the VIP version.
Aiming the VIP version.
Holding the Bodyguard version.
Aiming the Bodyguard version.
HUD icon in Grand Theft Auto Online .
Down the sights.
The Up-n-Atomizer is a Raygun featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the continuation of the Arena War update, released on January 1, 2019, during the Festive Surprise 2018 event.
The Up-n-Atomizer is a small handheld futuristic blaster, sporting a blue finish with a yellow coil as the barrel. When a shot is fired from the weapon, it will take on the appearance of a glowing coil before exploding in a small blue blast.
The Up-n-Atomizer is an interesting weapon; it fires a yellow glowing coil beam that travels 95 meters/312 feet, and will explode after half of a second, or upon impact with a surface or object. The coil beam is fired at a speed of 684 kph/425 mph. The weapon features no traditional ammunition, rather it recharges its shot after two seconds, similarly to the Stun Gun .
The damage the weapon emits is not as strong compared to other explosive weapons in the game such as the Railgun . When a person is hit directly with a shot, it will send them flying into the air, and requires three shots to kill Rank 100 players. It can also instantly kill NPCs with a headshot. The projectile splash radius is 2.5 meters compared to the other explosives’ five meters. If a shot is close but doesn't directly hit the person, it will stun NPCs in a 12 meter radius while having no effect on players. The Up-n-Atomizer’s lock-on range is 20 meters, which makes it deadly at close quarters combat. Skilled players are also able to use the gun to unseat opponents flying the Oppressor Mk II , usually causing their death from falling while not destroying the bike (thereby avoiding a Bad Sport penalty).
Firing it at a target that's too close to the player (or directly at the floor) will cause the player to fly into the air; this effect can be useful for reaching locations like lower rooftops that the player cannot otherwise reach on foot, except by using ladders.
When a vehicle is shot, it will send it flying while dealing minimal damage. This can be rather useful against vehicles, especially ones that have become stuck and are unable to move otherwise. However, one downside to the Up-n-Atomizer is that it cannot be fired while in a vehicle. Using the weapon to dislodge a vehicle will still damage the vehicle to an extent and too many shots will destroy it.
The Up-n-Atomizer can also be used to knock down chain-link fences - including some (though not all) fences that vehicles cannot knock down.
Before a subsequent update removed the ability to use it indoors, the ray gun could be used in Stash Houses to clear bodies and debris away that were blocking the post-it notes with the safe combination.
7.5 7.5 LightArmor modifier 10 10 Default
The weapon tint also changes the color of the coil beam.
The Up-n-Atomizer on Rockstar Games Social Club .
Up-n-Atomizer HUD icon.
Down the sight
The Widowmaker is a weapon featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Arena War update, released on January 8, 2019, during the Unholy Hellbringer and Widowmaker Week event.
The Widowmaker is a plasma machine gun with four barrels on it. The main body features the main grips typical of a portable gatling gun and the ammo is located on the rear end, connected by a pair of wires. There appear to be seven alien head symbols on the side, likely representing kill counts.
True to what the descriptions and appearance suggests, it is based on the same weapon from Republican Space Rangers , used by the Commander.
Statistic-wise, the Widowmaker performs identically to the Minigun , even using the same ammunition, being a great weapon against helicopters, planes, motor vehicles, and multiple enemies. However, it is still just as cumbersome to use and slows down the wielder, unable to run fast, taking cover, or performing evasive rolls.
The difference between the Widowmaker and the Minigun is that it fires red lasers, which makes it easy to find the user's location. The weapon can also be bought at any Rank , whereas the Minigun is unlocked at Rank 120. However, the weapon is ten times more expensive than the Minigun. In Third-person perspective, the Widowmaker can aim higher up in the air than the Minigun, but in First-person, it aims lower.
22.5 22.5 LightArmor modifier 30 30 Default 51 51 Headshot modifier (multiplayer)
The Widowmaker on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Widowmaker (left) being displayed with the Unholy Hellbringer .
The Unholy Hellbringer is a weapon featured in Grand Theft Auto Online as part of the Arena War update, released on January 8th, 2019, during the Unholy Hellbringer and Widowmaker Week event.
The Unholy Hellbringer is a square-shaped plasma rifle with three barrels, a drum-shaped ammo magazine, and a small stock. There appear to be three alien head symbols on the side, likely representing kill counts.
True to what the descriptions and appearance suggests, it is based on the same weapon from Republican Space Rangers , mainly used by Dick and Butch.
The Unholy Hellbringer's performance is identical to that of a Combat MG with no attachments . They both deal the same amount of damage, and also have the same rate of fire, amount of recoil, and range, but the Unholy Hellbringer has slightly lower accuracy than the Combat MG. Another disadvantage about the Unholy Hellbringer is that it does not have any attachments, unlike the MG and Combat MG. The only advantage the Unholy Hellbringer has over the MG and Combat MG is that the ammo capacity is 9,999 while the MG and Combat MG's ammo capacity is 54 and 100 (100 and 200 with the extended clip respectively), meaning that players will never have to reload with the Unholy Hellbringer.
33.8 33.8 LightArmor modifier 45 45 Default 76.5 76.5 Headshot modifier (multiplayer)
Unholy Hellbringer HUD icon.
The Unholy Hellbringer on Rockstar Games Social Club .
The Unholy Hellbringer (right) being displayed with the Widowmaker .
Aiming down the sights
