Minecraft is a 3D sandbox game developed by Mojang Studios , a part of Xbox Game Studios . Initially released as what is now known as Minecraft Classic on May 17, 2009, the game was fully released on November 18, 2011 on PC and Mac, after multiple updates. Since its release, Minecraft has expanded to mobile devices and consoles.
Minecraft focuses on allowing the player to explore, interact with and modify a dynamically-generated world made of one-cubic-meter-sized blocks . In addition to blocks, the environment features plants , mobs , tools , and items . Some activities in the game include building, mining for ore , fighting hostile mobs and crafting new blocks and tools by gathering various resources found in the game. The game's open-ended model allows players to create structures , creations and artwork on various competitive or collaborative multiplayer servers or their single-player maps. Other features include redstone circuits for logic computations and remote actions, minecarts and tracks , and a mysterious underworld called the Nether . A designated but completely optional goal of the game is to travel to a dimension called the End and defeat the ender dragon .
From its creation, Minecraft was developed almost exclusively by Swedish game developer Markus "Notch" Persson until Jens "Jeb" Bergensten took place of the head of its development. On November 6, 2014, Minecraft and all of Mojang Studios' assets were acquired by Microsoft for US$ 2.5 billion. [7] [8] Notch has since left Mojang and is no longer working on the game. Minecraft features music by Daniel "C418" Rosenfeld , Kumi Tanioka , Lena Raine , Samuel Åberg , Aaron Cherof , Amos Roddy , Hyper Potions and Paula "fingerspit" Ruiz , as well as paintings by Kristoffer Zetterstrand and Sarah Boeving .
The player is the person that the user controls in the world . When the user starts a game, the player is put in a world, generated from a random or specified seed , with an empty inventory . If the bonus chest option is enabled, a chest filled with basic items generates near the player. The player has a health bar with 10 hearts and can be depleted when they are damaged . Damage to health can be mitigated by armor or the Resistance effect; while health can be restored by keeping the hunger bar full enough or by drinking specific potions . If the difficulty is set to Peaceful, health regenerates on its own.
Each player can have a unique look via 9 default skins , or by creating their own custom skin. A player can change their skin on the profile page of Minecraft.net or in the Minecraft Launcher in Java Edition and in the pause or main menus in Bedrock Edition .
The world of Minecraft takes place within a three-dimensional grid of cubes , with each cube being occupied by a certain type of block, not all of which are necessarily cubic. There are different types of blocks; natural blocks such as grass , stone and ores that generate randomly within the world. There are also blocks that players can craft , such as a crafting table and a furnace . Resources can be extracted from blocks by hand or by using tools . Some of these resources are simply blocks in the player's inventory that can be placed elsewhere, while others are used as material to create other blocks or tools. Others yield no practical use whatsoever. Some blocks cannot be broken through normal Survival means, e.g. bedrock , End portal frames , command blocks , Nether and End portals , barriers and air.
Mining is one of the main aspects of Minecraft and is done to extract ore and other materials mainly from below the surface of the map. These ores include coal , iron , gold , redstone , diamond , lapis lazuli , copper and emerald . Mining can involve digging a hole from the surface or going down through a cave . Mineshafts and ravines create extra areas that may contain resources, since they are usually rich in ores.
Crafting allows players to create new tools and blocks using items from their inventory . Subsequent versions often contain crafting recipes for new blocks and items . A player can use the 2×2 grid in the inventory or the 3×3 grid provided by a crafting table to craft. Smelting requires a furnace in addition to fuel and processes blocks into a more useful form such as from raw iron into iron ingots , which can then be crafted into iron tools and iron armor .
Brewing creates potions from various ingredients and water using a brewing stand . They are stored in a glass bottle and then consumed by the player or thrown at other mobs to generate a certain effect based on the magical ingredients used to create the potion. Enchanting is also used to upgrade armor , tools or weapons with an enchanting table or anvil . More powerful enchantments can be accessed by gaining experience and placing bookshelves around the enchanting table.
Mobs are interactable creatures that inhabit the world. Hostile mobs attack the player while passive mobs do not. Neutral mobs attack when provoked (not all neutral mobs are provoked the same way).
The Overworld contains many passive animal mobs that may be killed for food , bred with one another, or kept around for useful utilities. Mobs that drop food drop the raw version of their food unless killed while on fire or by an item enchanted with the Fire Aspect enchantment.
The Nether is a dimension in Minecraft accessible from the Overworld by a Nether portal . It consists of five unique biomes , which are the Nether wastes , the basalt deltas , the crimson and warped forests and the soul sand valleys . Each biome has unique generation and terrain. It is populated by zombified piglins, blazes, ghasts, wither skeletons, magma cubes, piglins, and hoglins. Ores in the Nether include Nether quartz , Nether gold and ancient debris . The Nether also has large oceans of lava that have striders walking on them.
The End is another dimension of the game where the player battles the ender dragon . The End is accessed by entering an End portal found in a stronghold . The End is composed of End stone and is inhabited by endermen . It also contains tall obsidian pillars on top of which are End crystals that heal the ender dragon. Once the ender dragon is slain, the exit portal is created in the center of the map and an End gateway portal is created near an edge of the map, which transports the player to the expansive outer End islands which are full of chorus fruit forests and End cities filled of chest loot and shulkers . The End gateway portal is only accessed by throwing an ender pearl , using elytra or trapdoors to enter the portal. There are no ores in the End.
Minecraft can be played with multiple players together in one world. Players can interact with each other using the chat or emotes , and can play the game together or damage each other, also known as PvP (player versus player).
Players on the same local network ( LAN ) can join other worlds opened for LAN connections. The world is hosted and managed by the player running the world, who is also the operator with the ability to manage each player's permissions or kick players. In Bedrock Edition , players can also join worlds opened to the Internet using the Xbox friend system. A player can add and manage friends from the in-game menus or the Xbox app, and any player can be invited to the world.
Multiplayer worlds can also be hosted independently from a player's Minecraft instance using an external server. Official server software for both editions can be downloaded for free on a PC, or a player could use an unofficial server-hosting service that maintains and runs the server. Players can join any external server via the Internet (except for console versions of Bedrock Edition ), and the server can even be online while no players are in the world. An official server list has been made for some large third-party servers that provide access for any player, and players can also join specific featured servers in Bedrock Edition .
Minecraft multiplayer servers have developed to include their own rules and customs, guided by their administrators and moderators. The term griefer , meaning a player who causes grief, is a typical term on the internet but has taken up its definition on Minecraft servers: a person who destroys or defiles other users' creations on servers.
One popular game on multiplayer servers is Spleef (a play on the word "grief"), a game where the player aims to make another player drop through the floor by destroying blocks beneath the opponent's feet. This is typically played in a designated area and is usually run automatically using server plugins.
Many popular multiplayer servers exist that may contain, PvP arenas, custom minigames or large Survival or Creative worlds.
Minecraft Realms is an official subscription-based server hosting service that allows players to create and manage their own private Minecraft multiplayer worlds. Hosted by Mojang Studios , Realms provides an easy and fast way to create servers and allows the owner to manage them from inside the game, without prior knowledge of the concepts for hosting on the internet. However, Realms are not intended for large public servers, but for groups of friends or as a family server. [9] Private Realms servers are easy to set up and available 24/7 as long as the owner pays for it.
Java Edition is mostly available on personal computers running Windows , macOS and Linux . It can be purchased from minecraft.net or the Microsoft Store . Gift codes can be bought for others, for the same price as buying the game for oneself. The demo version can be played for free without multiplayer. Java Edition can not run on Windows RT, it can only be run on ChromiumOS or ChromeOS if the "Linux development environment" is turned on, and it can not be run on many non-PC devices, even ones that use Java, such as cars and toasters. [10]
Bedrock Edition is available on most devices. It can be purchased on Google Play (for ChromeOS & Android ), the Apple App Store (for iOS & iPadOS ), the Amazon Appstore (for Amazon Fire ), the Microsoft Store (for Windows & Xbox ), minecraft.net (for Windows ), the Nintendo eShop (for Nintendo Switch ), and the PlayStation Store (for PS4 & PS5 ).
Alternatively, Xbox Game Pass Premium and Xbox Game Pass Ultimate provides access to Java Edition on PC and Bedrock Edition on Windows PCs and Xbox consoles. PC Game Pass provides access to Java Edition on PC and Bedrock Edition on Windows PCs.
Until July 2026, both editions on PC or Bedrock Edition on consoles were also available to purchase alongside Minecraft Dungeons , Minecraft Legends , and 1020 Minecoins/Tokens as part of the Minecraft Triple Bundle offer.
The Legacy Console Editions can be purchased on physical media (excluding Nintendo Switch Edition ) or on the respective platform's online store. The PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita editions can only be purchased through the console. The Xbox 360 , Xbox One , PlayStation 4 , Wii U , and Nintendo Switch editions are no longer available for direct digital purchase.
The North American version of New Nintendo 3DS Edition can be purchased on physical media. It is no longer available for direct digital purchase, and the game never had a physical release in other regions.
Minecraft Classic , a remake of an old version of Java Edition , can be played at classic.minecraft.net for free.
The original version of Minecraft on Windows, macOS, and Linux, starting through the Minecraft Launcher , Java Edition was initially released for an "early private singleplayer alpha" on May 17, 2009, followed by several development stages (notably Classic, Indev, Infdev, Alpha, Beta) with the game finally being released on November 18, 2011. The Java Edition has seen many significant updates since its official release.
The original May 17, 2009, public release is officially recognized as the anniversary of the Minecraft franchise as a whole. The official 10th Anniversary (in 2019) and 15th Anniversary (in 2024) are set 10 and 15 years after this date respectively.
The Bedrock Edition (also known as the Bedrock Platform / Codebase / Engine , and officially Minecraft or Minecraft for Windows) is a multi-platform version of Minecraft developed by Mojang Studios and Xbox Game Studios . Unlike Java Edition , which runs on w:Java , Bedrock Edition runs on C++. Since the engine originated with Minecraft: Pocket Edition , this entire product family has often been referred to as " Pocket Edition ", "MCPE" and "Pocket/Windows 10 Edition".
Before the Better Together Update , Bedrock Edition only existed as Pocket Edition (for iOS and Android) and Windows 10 Edition .
Predating the Better Together Update, Minecraft: Pocket Edition was initially launched exclusively for the Xperia PLAY on Google Play [11] for US$6.99 on August 15, 2011. It was later released for other Android devices on October 7, 2011, [12] and iOS on November 17, 2011. [13] On September 13, 2012, the Pocket Edition was made available for purchase on the Amazon Appstore. The Windows Phone version was released on the Windows Phone Store on December 10, 2014, [14] for which the Pocket Edition 1.0.0 release and newer are available only for Windows 10 Phone and newer. Since then, four adaptations of Pocket Edition have been released; for Windows 10 on July 29, 2015, the Gear VR on April 27, 2016, tvOS on December 19, 2016, and the Fire TV on December 19, 2016. [15] [16] [17] [18] As of September 24, 2018, the Apple TV Edition has been discontinued.
After the Better Together Update, all versions of Minecraft: Pocket Edition were merged together, along with the Legacy Console Editions of the latest consoles:
Legacy Console Edition refers to the editions of Minecraft for consoles that are developed and updated by 4J Studios .
The Legacy Console Edition was initially announced for the Xbox 360 on June 7, 2011, during E3 2011 . Xbox 360 Edition released digitally on May 9, 2012 followed by a physical release on June 4, 2013. The game was later released on additional platforms as PlayStation 3 Edition on December 17, 2013, PlayStation 4 Edition on September 4, 2014, Xbox One Edition on September 5, 2014, PlayStation Vita Edition on October 14, 2014, Wii U Edition on December 17, 2015, and Nintendo Switch Edition on May 11, 2017. As of December 10, 2019, no further feature updates have been released for these versions, and the newest available update depends on the platform. The most recent update on Xbox One Edition and Nintendo Switch Edition is the World of Color Update , while Xbox 360 Edition , PlayStation 3 Edition , PlayStation Vita Edition , and Wii U Edition have access to Update Aquatic . PlayStation 4 Edition is the most up-to-date version with Village & Pillage .
Minecraft Education ( Edition , before late 2022) is an educational version of Minecraft specifically designed for classroom use. It is developed by Mojang Studios and Xbox Game Studios and contains features that make Minecraft easy to use in a classroom setting. The full game was released on November 1, 2016.
Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition was released on September 13, 2017 for the titular system, its XL variant , and the New Nintendo 2DS XL , a unique port developed by Other Ocean Interactive . Multiplayer was limited to local play. This edition was discontinued on January 15, 2019.
There are a number of other versions of Minecraft . Minecraft 4k is a simple version of Minecraft in the style of other "4K" Java games (everything is packaged in 4 kibibytes) by Notch for contests. Minecraft: Pi Edition was a free ported version of Pocket Edition 0.5.0 for the Raspberry Pi , [19] which was intended as an educational tool for novice programmers. It allowed users to manipulate the game code and supported multiple programming languages; however, it was discontinued in January 2016. Minecraft: China Edition is a localized version of Minecraft for mainland China.
Add-ons ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] are the first step towards bringing customization to all editions of Minecraft and are officially supported by Mojang Studios / Minecraft . They currently allow players to transform the look of their worlds, change the behavior of mobs, and add entities, items and blocks, structures, functions and biomes.
Behavior packs ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] dictate how vanilla and custom entities behave, and they can also introduce functions and scripts. When paired with a resource pack designed to complement it, they form an add-on, which allows for the addition of new content to the game.
The game officially supports changing most of its various textures, sounds, and texts through resource packs . Resource packs must contain a certain structure of files and folders placed in the .minecraft /resourcepacks folder. Installed resource packs, as well as the folder in which resource packs are placed, can be accessed in the options menu. The extent to which the resources are changed is dependent on how many files are contained in the resource pack.
Data packs‌ [ Java Edition only ] provide a way for players to further customize vanilla worlds in a similar way to resource packs. Unlike resource packs, which modify the game's resources, data packs can be used to override or add new advancements, functions, loot tables, structures, recipes and tags without any code modification.
Skin refers to the texture that is placed onto a player model or mob. The skin is divided into areas that act as the surface area of the character (for example, the front head area, left leg area, etc.). A skin allows only solid color; transparency is not allowed on the skin file except on the second layer, which is transparent by default; playing offline, pixels can be left free resulting in "holes" in the skin. The second layer can be used to give the character glasses, hats, or other accessories. Players can also change the arm size to be slim or normal. The slim variant is 3 pixels wide while the normal variant is 4 pixels wide.
in Java Edition , there are no special features in the skins. This version has only the features listed in the first part of this section.
In Bedrock Edition , there are many more types of skin customization. Players can add 3D custom hair, eyes, mouths, arms, legs and more. Players can also change the size of a character. Players can also get many different accessories for the skin. However, the player cannot do this with a custom skin, only with an in-game skin. Players can also buy accessories and skins. Having a skin that is smaller than normal or larger does not affect the hitbox size, but can still give an advantage in multiplayer servers because it can be harder to see them. Some of the skins also do not show their armor or hand-held items .
Capes are an uncommon vanity item that can be equipped on a player's back. In Bedrock Edition , players start with a cape that is not equipped by default and some skins come with capes.
Capes also flail around when the player runs. When the player equips elytra, the texture of the elytra changes to an equipped cape.
Minecraft can be modified by replacing or adding Java class files to client.jar in Java Edition . This method of making custom modifications is not supported by Mojang as it can break the game if the mod is outdated, defective, or in conflict with another mod. Some such modifications impressed Notch or Jeb sufficiently that they were added to the game and the authors were credited under Additional Programming. Some examples of mods being implemented into the main game include the McRegion mod, Hippoplatimus' Piston Mod and horses from DrZhark's Mo' Creatures mod, being added in Beta 1.3 , Beta 1.7 and release 1.6.1 respectively.
There are many programs designed for Minecraft . These include 3D map editors and viewers, game modifiers, various informational programs (such as crafting recipes) and server wrappers, and other specialty programs. As with mods, these too are not supported by Mojang.
Metacritic ranked Minecraft as one of the best video games of the 2010s, [20] and Video Game Canon ranks Minecraft as one of the best games of all time. [21] [ better source needed ]
Many references have been made in culture in response to the popularity of Minecraft , this includes many memes and also references in these video games, TV shows, and movies.
Minecraft is a game made up of blocks, creatures, and community. Blocks can be used to reshape the world or build fantastical creations. Creatures can be battled or befriended, depending on your playstyle. Experience epic adventures solo or with friends, there’s no wrong way to play. Unless you’re digging straight down.
Game Code Paper
World generation (sometimes abbreviated as worldgen ) is the procedural generation process Minecraft uses to algorithmically generate terrain , biomes , features , and thus ultimately decides which blocks are placed where. Minecraft worlds are made of 16×16 blocks wide chunks stretching the full height of the dimension . Because there are more than 18 quintillion (18×10 18 , or 2 64 ) possible worlds, the game generates them using randomness, algorithms, and some manually built decorations. The benefits of procedural world generation include smaller game file size and practically infinite possibilities of gameplay.
In order to generate a different world every time, the game uses random numbers generated from a seed . However, pure randomness makes terrain and biomes too chaotic with no continuity. [1]
To solve this problem, the game makes use of gradient noise algorithms, like Perlin noise . [2] This makes sure blocks and chunks fit with their neighbors and gives the world both continuity and randomness.
Even though noise looks random and continuous, using it to generate terrain still lacks variation like hills and valleys that stand out and have a large height difference. To solve this, multiple noise functions are generated with different frequencies and amplitudes and then added up, which gives a more natural result. These noise functions are called octaves.
World generation happens in multiple steps. The game may freeze some chunks that are far from players at an early generation step for better performance, as shown on the graph. As the player approaches these chunks, the chunks advance through the generation steps again until they finish generating. Incomplete chunks that are temporarily frozen at a step are called proto-chunks, while chunks that are ready and accessible to players are called level chunks. In Java Edition , the steps of world generation are sorted into:
Biome generation in the Overworld is based on 6 parameters: temperature , humidity (aka. vegetation), continentalness (aka. continents), erosion , weirdness (aka. ridges), and depth . Except for "depth", the other 5 parameters are based only on horizontal coordinates.
They can be thought of as a six-dimensional (6D) space, where multiple intervals are defined for each biome, as described below. If the 6 parameters at a location fall outside all the defined biome intervals, the game uses the closest biome interval in the 6D space.
Temperature is a noise parameter used only in biome generation and does not affect terrain generation. Temperature values are divided into 5 levels. The corresponding ranges from level 0 to level 4 are: -1.0~-0.45, -0.45~-0.15, -0.15~0.2, 0.2~0.55, 0.55~1.0.
Note that the temperature parameter is not the same as the temperature property of a biome, but they roughly correspond each other, e.g. if a location's temperature parameter is level 0, the base temperature of the biome here is usually low enough or the terrain is high enough, that the surface is covered in snow and ice.
Humidity (also known as vegetation ) is a noise parameter used only in biome generation and does not affect terrain generation. Humidity values are also divided into 5 levels. The corresponding ranges from level 0 to level 4 are: -1.0~-0.35, -0.35~-0.1, -0.1~0.1, 0.1~0.3, 0.3~1.0.
Continentalness (also known as continents ) is used to decide between ocean/beach/land biomes. Higher values correspond to more inland biomes.
Erosion is used to decide between flat and mountainous terrain. When erosion is high the landscape is generally flat, and where erosion is low the landscape is hilly. Areas with low erosion also tend to generate meadows , snowy slopes , stony peaks , jagged peaks , and frozen peaks . Erosion values are divided into 7 levels. The corresponding ranges from level 0 to level 6 are: -1.0~-0.78, -0.78~-0.375, -0.375~-0.2225, -0.2225~0.05, 0.05~0.45, 0.45~0.55, 0.55~1.0.
Weirdness (also known as ridges ) affects whether to generate a biome variant or not, as well as whether or not terrain generates shattered. If the weirdness value is greater than 0, the generated biome becomes weirder. For example, weirdness could cause a jungle biome to become a bamboo jungle instead, or could cause a taiga to generate with more shattered terrain akin to a windswept savanna . A biome and its variant often do not appear on the same bank of a river.
The PV ( peaks and valleys , aka. ridges folded ) value is calculated through the formula 1 − | ( 3 | w e i r d n e s s | ) − 2 | .
Depth is a parameter not based directly on noise, instead it corresponds approximately to the terrain height. It is roughly 0 at the surface and increases by 1 ⁄ 128 (0.0078125) for every 1 block down. The depth parameter affects whether a surface biome or a cave biome is placed.
The table below lists the defined depth values for Overworld biomes, and any additional noise values required for cave biomes to generate. Any other values result in the closest biome interval being used instead. Note that regions of lush caves and dripstone caves overlap. [3]
The generation of non-inland biomes is not based on humidity, erosion, or weirdness. The following table lists the relation between non-inland surface biomes and continentalness and temperature.
The following table lists the relation between inland surface biomes and continentalness, erosion and PV.
In which, the specific biome generation of beach biomes, badland biomes, middle biomes, plateau biomes, and shattered biomes is determined by the temperature, humidity, and weirdness values.
Beach biomes generate in low lying terrain along the coast, and the specific biome generation is related only to the temperature value.
Badland biomes usually generate inland with low erosion value, and can also generate along the coast with high terrain and low erosion. The specific biome generation is related to humidity and weirdness.
Middle biomes are the most extensive biomes inland. The specific biome generation depends on temperature, humidity, and weirdness.
Plateau biomes generate at inland high terrain with moderate erosion, which results in biomes like meadows and savanna plateaus . The specific biome generation depends on temperature, humidity, and weirdness.
Shattered biomes are generated at inland places with high erosion. The specific biome generation depends on temperature, humidity, and weirdness.
The Nether uses 3 parameters to generate biomes: temperature, humidity and offset. Unlike the Overworld, the Nether specifies biomes with a single point.
The offset parameter is not based off of noise, it is always 0 at any location in a world. This means that the parameter point of a location is always in the temperature-humidity-plane. The closer the offset (of a biome point) is to 0, the closer the point is to the T-H-plane and the greater the advantage it has during biome generation.
The End uses only one noise parameter: erosion. If the horizontal distance from the chunk origin of a chunk to the world origin is less than 1024, the blocks in the chunk are in the End. Otherwise, the biome is determined by erosion.
End Barrens
In Bedrock Edition , these "biomes" are only used for initial terrain and feature generation, and are merged into The End after world generation.
Terrain shaping determines which blocks should be solid and which blocks should be filled with air.
If the noise is in two dimensions, it controls only surface height and it is impossible to add terrain above the surface. To add overhangs and 3D shapes, the game uses 3D Perlin noise function that gives an output called density for every single block. A density > 0 means it is filled with solid block, otherwise it is filled with air.
Density is then given a height bias and a base height. Height bias "squeezes" the blocks. Base height is the base of the squeezing process where the density is left unchanged. Changing base height moves the ground up and down.
To give the world some dramatic terrain shapes like cliffs, fjords and plateaus, the game uses three 2D noise maps. These noises are mapped using splines to calculate the height offset and a vertical stretch factor . The same noises are also used in biome generation , which creates a soft link between biome and terrain. For example, a mountainous area generates mountainous biome and plains biomes are generally flatter.
The larger the continentalness , the higher the average terrain height. Continentalness is used mainly for differentiating ocean and land.
The erosion parameter affects inland terrain during terrain generation. Erosion is mainly used to create large areas of flat ground. The higher the erosion at a location, the lower the terrain height and the flatter the terrain.
The peaks and valleys (PV) value is calculated from weirdness. As the name suggests, it is mainly used for generating better peaks and valleys. The higher the PV value, the higher the terrain. Usually, at places with low continentalness or high erosion, when the PV level is "Valleys", the terrain is low enough to generate rivers. At high terrain, negative weirdness values lead to taller and more jagged and point peaks. When the erosion level is approximately 5, positive weirdness values result in weird inland terrain that is shattered and extremely precipitous and craggy.
Noise caves are part of the base terrain generation and are generated using 3D Perlin noises. They come in the form of cheese caves, spaghetti caves, and noodle caves. Three noise maps, frequency, hollowness, and thickness, are parameters that control this process. Frequency controls the frequency of the cave generation.
Additionally, noise pillars generate inside big cheese cave chambers. Frequency controls the frequency of the pillar generation while thickness control the thickness of them.
Aquifers are liquid systems used in the Overworld to determine the fluid in all empty areas. Without aquifers all empty areas between sea-level and Y=-54 would be filled with water . Areas below Y=-55 are always filled with lava . To avoid all caves being flooded, aquifers are used to determine the fluid state of each position instead. Aquifers don't change the lava below Y=-55. An aquifer can be in 3 different states, with a state selected for each position:
For positions above the preliminary surface, the aquifer state is "Flooded". In areas of erosion less than -0.22 and depth greater than 0.9 (only the deep dark in vanilla), the state is always "Empty". Otherwise the state is determined bases on a noise. Values below 0.4 are "Empty", values above 0.8 are "Flooded", otherwise a local fluid level is used.
In positions near areas where the preliminary surface is below the sea-level the area of the "Flooded" aquifer state reaches slightly below the preliminary surface. In these areas the cutoff values for the noise are linearly decreased from 64 blocks below the preliminary surface upward. At the surface they are below -0.8 for "Empty" and above -0.3 for "Flooded". This causes the "Flooded" state to be much more common directly below rivers and oceans.
The local water level is determined in cells of size 16x40x16 blocks using a different noise. Whether to place water or lava is determined in cells of 64x40x64 blocks based on a third noise. Areas above Y=-10 always use water.
Barriers are used to separate areas of different liquids and to separate liquids from air. The height of the barriers is dependent on a fourth noise, causing water or lava to sometimes spill over the barrier.
Ore veins generate only in the Overworld. Three noises are used for vein generation: toggle, ridge, and gap.
Toggle is always 0 outside Y=-60 to Y=51 and can be negative or positive inside the range. The game attempts to generate an iron or a copper vein depending on whether toggle is < 0 or > 0. The attempts might fail because veins have a configured generating height.
Ridge is always -0.08 if Y level is outside the range. If ridge is > 0, the game skips the block.
Gap determines the ratio of ore-to-filler material, between 10% and 30% for any given vein. For non-filler blocks, 98% generate as normal ore blocks, while 2% are generated as raw ore blocks ( Block of Raw Copper and Block of Raw Iron , respectively).
The blocks used in vein generation are hardcoded , though their size can be changed with datapacks.
After the base terrain is generated, the game replaces some blocks with grass blocks, sand, dirt, etc., depending on the biome and dimension .
BE : Noise Y=-64–-63 (full) → Y=-60
and surface is above Y=63
much smaller ‌ [ BE only ]
much higher ‌ [ BE only ]
much smaller ‌ [ BE only ]
much higher ‌ [ BE only ]
BE : Noise Y=0-1 (full) → Y=4
BE : Noise Y=127 (full) → Y=123
Carvers include carver caves and carver canyons . As the name suggest, they "carve" through the ground.
Carver caves and carver canyons are configured to have different probability to be generated in each chunk. If the carver generates, it carves through the ground in random directions starting at the configured start Y level:
Structures are grouped into structure sets. A structure set determines the placement positions of the structures and places a structure at these positions based on the biome. If no structure matches the biome, then no structure is placed at a given position. The structure positions are usually calculated based on the spacing , separation , and frequency parameters of the structure set. Spacing determines the average distance between structure placement position in chunks, and separation determines the minimum distance. Frequency controls the probability that a determined position is used. If the biome at the placement attempt does not match the requirement, the structure is not placed. An exception are strongholds in Java Edition , which are placed as concentric rings, see Stronghold#Generation .
In the structures_starts generation step, the game determines if the chunk is suitable for a structure. If a structure is selected, the starting point of the structure and layout of the pieces is determined. In the structures_references generation step, every chunk near a chunk with a structure start stores a reference to that chunk. This allows finding the structure pieces that are inside each chunk. When a chunk is generating its decoration in the features step, the chunk is checked for a structure reference. If a structure reference is found, the stored pieces are placed in the world. (see #Features ).
The following table gives the placement parameters for each structure set, as they are in Java Edition . These are mostly similar in Bedrock Edition , with some minor differences.
The generation of features and placement of structure pieces (see #Structures ) happens in the same step and are called decorations collectively. Each biome has a list of allowed features and structures that are possible to generate in them.
Features and structures generate in 11 steps after each other called decoration steps .
To generate features in a chunk, the game first determines a list of biomes that appear in that chunk or the 8 surrounding chunks. Using that biome list the game constructs a list of features that are possible to generate in those biomes. For each decoration step, first the matching structure pieces are placed, followed by the features. When a structure piece crosses a chunk border, only the part in the current chunk is placed. Each feature has its own placement rules including the number of placement attempts and where in the chunk should the feature try to be placed. The game follows the rules to select a block in the chunk then checks if the biome, block and its surroundings at the current position allows that feature to spawn, and if so places the feature. Features can place block outside the current chunk's boundaries but are limited in the nearby 3×3 area.
When features are generated, they can spill over into neighboring chunks that have already had their features generated. Thus, the feature order specified above is not always adhered to. It is therefore also possible for two worlds generated with the same seed , from the same version of Minecraft , to differ slightly depending on the players' travel routes, because the chunk generation order may determine which of two conflicting features overwrite or suppress the other. [5]
As one of the last steps of chunk generation, the light levels for each block are calculated. Before this step, no block placement updates light, and light updates are instead deferred to this step.
In Java Edition many animals generate upon initial chunk creation. One in ten newly-generated chunks attempts to generate animal mobs , usually in packs of up to 4 of the same species.
In Bedrock Edition animals do not spawn during chunk generation, but they continually attempt to spawn as part of the environmental spawning algorithm.
Notably, mobs that spawn with a structure (e.g. elder guardian in ocean monuments ) are immediately spawned when the structure is placed and are not spawned in this step.
Heightmaps are technically calculated at every step of world generation. Before features are placed, there are only 2 heightmaps – OCEAN_FLOOR_WG and WORLD_SURFACE_WG . After feature placement, OCEAN_FLOOR , WORLD_SURFACE , MOTION_BLOCKING and MOTION_BLOCKING_NO_LEAVES are calculated.
Videos by Henrik Kniberg :
A world generation algorithm has been included in the game since its very inception. World generation was often changed significantly before the release of Java Edition . Notably, after its release, world generation has changed greatly in Java Edition 1.7.2 and Java Edition 1.18 . For Bedrock Edition , significant changes were made in Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha and Bedrock Edition 1.18.0 .
Issues relating to "World generation" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A biome is a region in a world with distinct geographical features, plants , mobs , temperatures, humidity levels, colors, and more. Biomes separate every generated world into different environments, such as forests, deserts, and oceans.
The biome of a location is determined during world generation rather than by the current environment, even if all blocks in a large area are altered to imitate the terrain of other biomes.
Existing biomes can be located with the / locate biome command. The / fillbiome command in Java Edition , or the "Biome Data Assignment" tool in Bedrock Editor can be used to change the biome in a selected area.
In Java Edition , there are 66 different biome types: 55 for the Overworld , 5 for the Nether , and 5 for the End , plus one used only for a superflat preset. In Bedrock Edition , there are 88 biome types: 55 for the Overworld, 5 for the Nether, 1 for the End, and 27 unused.
On this page, for convenience of description and reading, the biomes in Overworld are divided into 8 categories, which are not official.
These biomes are used for the generation of oceans and mushroom fields. They are large, open biomes made almost entirely of water going up to Y=63, with underwater relief on the sea floor, such as small mountains and plains, usually including gravel, dirt, and sand. Squid , fish and nautilus spawn frequently in the water, and dolphins spawn in non-frozen oceans. Regular hostile mobs can spawn at rare dry grounds, while drowned and sometimes zombie nautilus jockeys spawn underwater. Shipwrecks and underwater ruined portals are found in all ocean biomes, and ocean ruins may spawn with stone bricks in regular and colder oceans, or sandstone in lukewarm oceans.
The basic ocean biome, a vast body of water with occasional grassy islands. Like its colder variants, its floor is largely made up of gravel, covered with kelp and seagrass . However, small patches of dirt, sand and clay can also appear. Cod and salmon ‌ [ BE only ] can spawn here alongside dolphins , squid , nautiluses , and zombie nautiluses .
In deep ocean biomes, the ocean can exceed 30 blocks in depth, making it twice as deep as the normal ocean. The ground is mainly covered with gravel and kelp can grow much higher. Ocean monuments generate in deep oceans, where guardians , elder guardians , prismarine , and sponges can be found.
A variant of the ocean biome with light teal water at the surface. Like the lukewarm ocean, it has a floor made of sand and like all oceans, it is populated with seagrass, but without kelp. Pufferfish and tropical fish spawn here alongside dolphins, squid, and nautiluses, while cod and salmon do not spawn. Unlike other ocean biomes, warm oceans allow for the generation of coral reefs and sea pickles . It is the only ocean biome that does not have a deep equivalent, but the terrain in this biome can reach the same depth as deep oceans.
A variant of the ocean biome, with light blue water at the surface. Its floor is made of sand with an occasional patch of dirt or clay. Kelp and seagrass generates here. Unlike the warm ocean biome, cod and salmon‌ [ BE only ] can spawn here, together with pufferfish‌ [ JE only ] and tropical fish. Dolphins, squid, and nautiluses may also spawn.
Similar to the lukewarm ocean biome, but twice as deep. Because they are a deep ocean variant, they can generate ocean monuments .
A variant of the ocean biome, with dark blue water at the surface. Like regular oceans and frozen oceans, its floor is made up of gravel, though occasional patches of dirt can be found. Kelp and seagrass generates here. Salmon, cod and nautiluses can spawn in cold ocean biomes alongside squid and dolphins.‌ [ BE only ]
Similar to the cold ocean biome, but twice as deep. Like other deep oceans, ocean monuments can generate here.
A variant of the ocean biome with dark indigo water at the surface. Like the cold ocean, it has a gravel seabed and squid swimming about. However, the water's surface is frequently broken up by patches of ice and large icebergs , consisting of packed ice and blue ice , and occasionally topped with snow blocks and snow .‌ [ BE only ] Strays , polar bears , rabbits ,‌ [ BE only ] and nautiluses can spawn here, but dolphins can't. Salmon and cod‌ [ BE only ] may also spawn here.
Like the frozen ocean biome, but twice as deep. There are no patches of ice on the surface or low enough temperatures for snowfall , instead icebergs are floating standalone in the dark indigo water. Ocean monuments can generate here.
This rare biome consists of a mostly flat island and has mycelium as its surface. Mushroom fields are always adjacent to a deep ocean and isolated from other biomes, ranging in size from only tens of blocks to thousands. It is one of the few biomes where huge mushrooms can generate naturally, and where mushrooms can grow in full sunlight.
No mobs other than mooshrooms , bats ,‌ [ JE only ] and glow squid spawn naturally in this biome, including the usual night-time hostile mobs. This also applies to caves, mineshafts and other dark structures, meaning exploring underground is safe. However, mobs can still spawn through other means than the regular spawn cycle, such as monster spawners and wandering traders . Phantoms cannot spawn in Bedrock Edition .
Highland biomes are biomes with a higher Y-level. Rugged terrain and snow-covered peaks appear above the snow line.
One of the three biomes that only generate in the peaks of a mountain. This biome is found in taller and more jagged and pointy peaks that often pass the clouds and can peak at Y=256. It is covered by a single layer of snow blocks with stone underneath often exposing ores such as coal , iron and emerald . Just like the snowy slopes, stone cliffs can generate in some sides of the mountain. Goats spawn in this biome. Polar bears and rabbits may also spawn here and strays appear at night or during thunderstorms.‌ [ BE only ] Pillager outposts can generate here with tall foundations.
Similar to the jagged peaks, but the snow block cover is varied with packed ice and occasional small blobs of ice . Like jagged peaks, mobs that spawn here include goats, polar bears, rabbits, and strays.‌ [ BE only ] This biome usually generates in smoother and less jagged mountains compared to the jagged peaks biome. Pillager outposts can generate here.
The stony peaks are a warmer variation of peak biomes that generate in warmer regions, without snowfall . It is mainly covered by stone with large strips of calcite and exposed ores. No passive mobs spawn here, and pillager outposts can generate.
The meadow is an elevated grassy biome found in plateaus near mountain ranges. It is filled with patches of almost every type of flower and turquoise-green short grass and tall grass . Rarely, a lone oak or birch tree can generate and always has a bee nest . Sheep , donkeys and rabbits are the only passive mobs that spawn in this biome. Pillager outposts and plains villages commonly generate here.
Cherry groves are grassland plateaus with a lot of short grass, tall grass and, instead of the traditional dandelion and poppy flowers, the ground is covered with pink petals . The main environmental feature of the cherry grove are cherry trees identified by their striking pink color and leaf particles filling the atmosphere. The cherry trees may generate densely enough to create a cover of leaves. Sheep, pigs and rabbits are the only passive mobs that spawn in this biome.
The grove creates a forest of spruce trees beneath the colder mountain peaks when near a forested biome. It is quite reminiscent of the snowy taiga, but the surface is covered with snow blocks and patches of powder snow instead of grass blocks. Rabbits, wolves and foxes can spawn in this biome.
The snowy slopes generate beneath the colder mountain peaks and are covered with multiple layers of snow blocks and powder snow , with some sides also having stone cliffs. Goats spawn in this biome alongside rabbits and polar bears .‌ [ BE only ] Strays may also spawn here at night and during thunderstorms.‌ [ BE only ] This is the only mountain biome where igloos can generate.
A highland biome with some steep hilltops and an occasional oak or spruce tree in Java Edition . The terrain is usually flat, but sometimes hilly and shattered. This is one of the few biomes where llamas can spawn naturally. Snowfall also occurs above certain heights, rarely creating snow layers on the top of the hills. Windswept hills are one of six biomes where emerald ore and infested stone can be found naturally. Cold animal variants may also spawn here.
This variant is found when windswept hills are located next to forested biomes. It does not generate stone patches, so the floor is entirely covered by grass blocks, and there are more spruce and oak trees, forming small forests with a lower tree density than other forest biomes. Cold animal variants and llamas may spawn here.
Woodland biomes are rich in plants with a variety of trees , flowers and grasses .
A common biome with many oak and birch trees and a fair amount of short grass , mushrooms and flowers . The ground beneath the trees is covered with leaf litter . Wolves can spawn in this biome.
This forest variant has fewer trees but contains nearly every type of flower and tall plant in the game. Wolves do not spawn in the flower forest, although rabbits spawn occasionally. Bee nests have a higher chance to generate in this biome.
A biome covered by a forest of spruce trees. Ferns , large ferns and sweet berry bushes grow commonly on the forest floor. One can find packs of wolves here, along with small groups of foxes , rabbits or cold animal variants. Pillager outposts , taiga villages , and trail ruins can generate here.
A biome composed of spruce trees, much like the standard taiga biome. However, many trees are 2×2 thick and taller than normal, with few leaves at the top resembling pines. Mossy cobblestone boulders appear frequently, mushrooms are common, and podzol can be found on the forest floor. There are also patches of coarse dirt that do not grow grass, with some dead bushes .
Wolves, foxes and cold animal variants can spawn here, as they do in normal taiga biomes. Rabbits may also spawn here.‌ [ JE only ]
At first glance, this biome may look almost exactly the same as its pine tree counterpart. However, the most striking feature of this biome is its giant spruce trees, which are almost entirely covered with leaves unlike the trees in the old growth pine taiga which only have leaves at the top. Like the old growth pine taiga, wolves, foxes, cold animal variants, and rabbits‌ [ JE only ] spawn here. Trail ruins can generate here.
A hybrid of the normal taiga and the snowy plains. Ferns and large ferns generate commonly, however sweet berry bushes generate more rarely than in the normal taiga. In Bedrock Edition , taiga villages with snowy villagers and pillager outposts can generate here.
Wolves, foxes, rabbits and cold animal variants can spawn here. One may also find an igloo nestled between the trees.
A forest that is solely made of birch trees. The grass has an aqua color, and unlike the regular forest, no wolves spawn in this biome. Wildflowers cover the ground and give the biome a slight yellow tint.
Birch trees grow much taller than usual in this variant of the birch forest biome. Whereas normal birch trees grow up to 7 blocks tall, these trees can grow up to 13 blocks in height. It is one of the few biomes where trail ruins can generate.
This biome is mainly composed of dark oak trees, which create a mostly closed roof of leaves. Oak trees, birch trees, and huge mushrooms can also be found occasionally, and the ground is covered with leaf litter . Trees in this forest are so densely packed that areas are dark enough for hostile mobs to spawn, even during the day. Woodland mansions can generate here.
A rarer variation of the dark forest biome found on higher grounds, where the dark oak trees are replaced with pale oak trees, with lots of pale hanging moss . Patches of pale moss blocks and pale moss carpets cover much of the ground, and eyeblossoms dot the landscape. The sky, foliage, and water in this biome are gray and desaturated, and no music plays inside the biome. Gray fog with Vibrant Visuals is extremely dense and obstructs almost all view.
Some of the pale oak trees may have a creaking heart hidden within them, which spawns a creaking at night. Like dark forests, hostile mobs can spawn even at day under the dark trees and woodland mansions generate here.
A dense forested biome that includes many different plants and features. Jungle trees and mega jungle trees are common, with the mega trees having 2×2 thick trunks and possibly growing up to 31 blocks in height. Fancy oak trees are also common, and jungle bushes often cover much of the forest floor. Ferns and large ferns are found commonly, and vines are found growing and hanging on most types of blocks. Additionally, cocoa can also grow on the sides of jungle trees. Melons can generate here in patches, similar to pumpkins, although they are much more common. Single shoots of bamboo can be found scattered throughout the biome.
The foliage in the jungle is a bright, lush green color. Ocelots , parrots , pandas , and warm animal variants can spawn in this biome. Jungle pyramids and trail ruins generate here.
In contrast to the wild and overgrown vegetation of the jungle biome, the sparse jungle consists of small jungle and oak trees, and jungle bushes that are spaced out and isolated, creating a much more open environment.
Parrots, ocelots, and pandas can still spawn in the sparse jungle.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] Wolves can also spawn in this biome along with warm animal variants.
In this jungle biome, large areas of the landscape are covered with massive amounts of bamboo . The ground consist of podzol underneath the densely packed bamboo. Additionally, mega jungle trees, fancy oak trees, and jungle bushes can also generate here.
Pandas have a much higher chance to spawn here than the other jungle biomes, making this the best place to find them. Ocelots,‌ [ BE only ] parrots, and warm animal variants are also able to spawn. Jungle pyramids can generate here.‌ [ JE only ]
A forest vegetated by poplar trees on an orange-brown grass tint with red shrubs . The biome also has various mushrooms , fallen trees , and coarse dirt . Foxes and rabbits spawn here alongside cold animals.
Wetland biomes are rivers, swamps and beaches. They have a large amount of water resources. Rivers separate other biomes; beaches generate as a transition between the ocean and land.
A biome that consists of water blocks that form an elongated, curving shape. Rivers cut through terrain or separate the main biomes. They attempt to join up with ocean biomes, but sometimes loop around to the same area of ocean. Rarely, they can have no connection to an ocean, instead forming a loop, or ending in a swamp or far inland.
On the landside, or rare occasions where rivers generate entirely dry, the grass has a dull aqua tone, and trace amounts of oak trees and firefly bushes tend to generate there. Rivers are also a reliable source of clay and sand. Drowned , squid , cod , and salmon spawn underwater. In Bedrock Edition , no other mobs can spawn through the spawn cycle, even common hostile mobs.
A river with a layer of ice covering its surface, generating when a river goes through snowy biomes. Salmon spawn underwater while rabbits ‌ [ BE only ] and polar bears ‌ [ BE only ] spawn on the surface. At night and during thunderstorms, drowned can spawn below the ice with strays ‌ [ BE only ] and skeletons on the surface. In Bedrock Edition , no other hostile mobs can spawn here.
A biome characterized by a mix of flat areas around sea level, and shallow pools of green water with floating lily pads . Clay, sand, and dirt are commonly found at the bottom of these pools. Oak trees are covered with vines and can be found growing out from the water, and in Bedrock Edition , huge mushrooms also generate. Mushrooms , firefly bushes , dead bushes , and sugar canes are abundant, and blue orchids grow exclusively here. Frogs of the temperate variant can spawn here as well.
Swamp huts with a black cat and a witch generate exclusively in swamps, and fossils are rarely found underground. Slimes also spawn naturally at night and during thunderstorms, most commonly on full moons, and some skeletons are replaced by bogged . Green volumetric fog and underwater fog is much denser than in other biomes.
A warmer variant of the swamp, characterized by a dense foliage, featuring plenty of mangrove trees of varying heights. The floor is mainly composed of mud blocks with occasional grass patches. The grass has the same color as in the normal swamp but leaves and vines have a unique light green tint and the water is teal rather than gray. Warm frogs often spawn in this biome. Slimes also spawn naturally at night and during thunderstorms, most commonly on full moons, and some skeletons are replaced by bogged. Fossils generate underground, but swamp huts do not.
Generated where oceans meet land biomes, beaches are primarily composed of sand . Buried treasures can be found under few blocks of sand, and an occasional shipwreck can also generate here. Passive mobs other than turtles do not spawn on beaches.
Like a regular beach, one can find plenty of sand in this biome and buried treasures can be found underground in this snowy beach. However, sand is covered in a layer of snow . Snowy beaches are found when a snowy biome borders a frozen ocean biome. No passive mobs other than rabbits ‌ [ BE only ] spawn in this biome, and shipwrecks occasionally generate on land.
This stone-covered biome generates at shores with low erosion values, usually close to mountains . Depending on the height of the nearby land, stony shores may generate as medium slopes or huge cliffs, its tops tall enough to be covered by snow even when near warmer biomes. [1] No passive mobs spawn here. Buried treasures can generate here.‌ [ BE only ] Strips of gravel can sometimes be found here.
These biomes have a wide view because less trees spawn here and the terrain usually does not contain mountains or cliffs, although hills and plateaus are common. They also have a higher number of passive mob spawns.
A grassy biome with rolling hills and few oak trees, as well as many flowers and grasses. Villages and pillager outposts are common. Cave openings, lava lakes and waterfalls are easily identifiable due to the unobstructed terrain. Passive mobs are easily found in plains biomes; this biome is also one of the few biomes where horses and donkeys spawn naturally. Hostile zombie horses spawn rarely at night as zombie horsemen.
A fairly uncommon variation of the plains, this biome is the only place where sunflowers naturally generate. In Bedrock Edition , plains villages and pillager outposts can generate here.
A variant of plains entirely covered with snow , and freezing water. There are few spruce trees in this biome, and less grass and flowers generate compared to regular plains. No animal mobs other than rabbits and polar bears can spawn; however, it is one of the few biomes where strays and zombie horsemen spawn at night. In Bedrock Edition , this biome does not spawn any other monsters except skeletons , strays , and zombie horsemen . Snowy villages, pillager outposts, and igloos can generate here.
A rare variation of the snowy plains biome that features large spikes and glaciers of packed ice . Usually, the spikes are 10 to 20 blocks tall, but some long, thin spikes can reach over 50 blocks in height. The floor in this biome is entirely covered in snow blocks instead of grass, and ice patches made of packed ice can generate on it. Like the regular snowy plains, no animal mobs other than rabbits and polar bears can spawn and strays appear at night or during thunderstorms.
In these biomes, it neither rains nor snows. The surface is covered with sparse vegetation.
A barren biome consisting mostly of sand dunes, dead bushes , dry grass , and cacti . Sandstone and sometimes fossils are found underneath the sand. The only passive mobs that spawn naturally in deserts are gold/creamy rabbits and camels . At night and during dry thunderstorms, husks , parched , and camel husk jockeys usually spawn in the place of normal zombies and skeletons. The biome is rich in structures, including desert villages , desert wells , desert pyramids , and pillager outposts .
A relatively flat and dry biome with a dull-brown grass color and acacia trees scattered around the biome, though oak trees may generate occasionally. Tall grass covers the landscape. Savanna villages can generate in this biome, constructed of acacia wood, and pillager outposts also generate. Horses , armadillos and warm animal variants can naturally spawn here, and it is one of the only biomes with rare zombie horsemen . Llamas may also spawn here.‌ [ BE only ]
This biome generates when a normal savanna biome spawns at high altitudes and near mountains. It is mostly indistinguishable from the standard savanna, with the main differences being the fact that llamas and wolves can spawn. Villages and pillager outpost do not generate.
In contrast to the mostly flat and calm terrain of the savanna biome, this uncommon variant generates chaotic terrain, with gigantic mountains covered in coarse dirt and some patches of stone. The mountains in the windswept savanna are extremely steep, sometimes jutting out at 90-degree angles and there are floating islands and overhangs. On top of that, they can reach heights comparable to the mountain peak biomes, sometimes rising above the clouds. Massive waterfalls and lavafalls are quite common, and lakes can also generate.
Horses, armadillos and warm animal variants can still spawn in the windswept savanna, as well as zombie horsemen and llamas .‌ [ BE only ]
An uncommon mountainous and desertic biome composed of layers of terracotta and stained terracotta on higher grounds. Red sand covers this in valleys, with occasional cacti , dead bushes , and dry grass . Armadillos are the only mobs that can be found here. Mineshafts generate at a higher altitude than normal, allowing them to be exposed to the surface, and have dark oak planks instead of oak planks . Gold ore also generates more frequently.
On higher altitudes, the wooded badlands have layers of coarse dirt and grass blocks , and forests of small oak trees with leaf litter . The lower parts don't generate the oak forests, exposing terracotta and red sand to the sky. The color of the grass and leaves is a dull green-brown hue, giving it a dried and dead appearance. Armadillos can spawn here during the day, and wolves and warm animal variants can spawn on the wooded plateaus.
This rare variant generates unique terrain features that are similar to the structures in Utah's Bryce Canyon . Tall and narrow spires of colorful terracotta rise out of the floor of the canyon, which like all other badlands variants, is covered in red sand. Armadillos are the only passive mobs that can be found here.
These biomes generate inside caves in the Overworld. They are mostly found underground but can sometimes leak out of cave entrances.
A dimly lit cave biome that generates deep underground mostly within the deepslate layer under mountains . It is largely sculk blocks 1 block thick upon all surfaces, with frequent sculk sensors and occasional sculk shriekers , the latter of which can directly summon a warden . Large structures known as ancient cities can generate here, containing chests with unique loot. No mobs spawn here from the natural spawn cycle.
These are caves filled with dripstone blocks and pointed dripstone both hanging as stalactites and growing from the ground as stalagmites and small water wells of 1×1 in the ground. Large dripstone clusters structures generate occasionally inside these caves. Copper ore blobs found in this biome are much bigger compared to other biomes. Drowned and rarely zombie nautiluses can spawn in aquifers.
Lush caves are often found underground below azalea trees . These caves are covered by moss blocks , moss carpets , short grass and azalea bushes on the floors. On the ceiling, vines and cave vines with glow berries grow down and light up the caves, and spore blossoms grow and spore particles . There are also shallow lakes with clay where dripleaf plants grow out of them and axolotls spawn, making this the only biome where they can spawn. Tropical fish can also spawn inside the aquifers in a lush cave.
A biome composed of sulfur and cinnabar blocks, sulfur spikes , as well as potent sulfur in water pools that inflicts the Nausea effect. Sulfur cubes can spawn here. Cave spiders can spawn making it the only biome where they can spawn naturally. Sulfur springs generate at the surface, indicating there are sulfur caves below.
Can be accessed only through Single Biome world selection or The Void superflat preset . In a single biome world, the landscape consists of stone, as well as water and bedrock depending on the generator type. In the superflat preset, the world is completely empty except for a stone start platform . No mobs from the regular spawn cycle spawn here, and it does not rain.
The Nether is considered a different dimension . All biomes in this dimension are hot and dry, and it is not possible to place water ; ice can still be placed, though it does not turn into water upon melting. Lava oceans are generated as a feature and are therefore not considered a separate biome.
The Nether wastes is the most common biome in the Nether. The terrain mainly consists of netherrack , with glowstone clusters growing and lava leaking from the ceiling and gravel and soul sand lining its shores. Most of the Nether’s mobs can spawn here, including ghasts , zombified piglins , magma cubes , striders , piglins , and the occasional endermen .
The soul sand valley mainly consists of soul sand , basalt and soul soil . Notable features of the biome are exposed Nether fossils in various shapes and sizes, large amounts of lava , blue fog, large spires made of basalt , soul fire , and the occasional Nether fortress or bastion remnant . Ghasts and skeletons are common in this biome while endermen are rare. Striders can spawn here as well. This is the only place to find dried ghasts naturally.
The crimson forest consists of many huge crimson fungi , which act as the "trees" of this biome. The huge fungi often generate with weeping vines hanging from them, and shroomlights which light up the landscape. The floor is mostly covered with crimson nylium , with occasional patches of bare netherrack or Nether wart blocks . Crimson roots , crimson fungus , and occasionally warped fungus grow on the ground. Small patches of Nether wart blocks and weeping vines can also be found growing on the ceiling.
Hoglins , piglins , zombified piglins , and striders can spawn in this biome.
The warped forest consists of many huge warped fungi , which act as the "trees" of this biome. The huge fungi often generate with shroomlights , which light up the landscape. Twisting vines grow throughout the biome in patches. The floor is mostly covered with warped nylium , with occasional patches of bare netherrack or warped wart blocks . Warped roots , warped fungus , Nether sprouts , and occasionally crimson fungus grow on the ground.
Endermen and striders are the only mobs that spawn in this biome. The biome emits out a magenta-purple fog upon entry.
A gray biome, the basalt deltas are said to be the remnant of ancient volcanic eruptions. [ citation needed ] The ground consists of basalt and blackstone blocks, with small patches of netherrack and pools of lava . The shape of the terrain is chaotic and uneven, making it somewhat difficult to traverse and build on. Unlike the other biomes in the Nether, bastion remnants do not generate in basalt deltas. When this biome borders a lava ocean, clusters of basalt form near the coast. Fog is colored light-gray and particles of dust can be seen falling from the ceiling upon entry.
Magma cubes have a high spawn rate in this biome, making the basalt deltas the best place to farm magma cream . This biome also contains a much higher abundance of blackstone compared to other Nether biomes. Ghasts and striders can spawn in this biome as well.
The End is considered a different dimension. The terrain consists of end stone islands of varying sizes, floating in the void . They use five different biomes in Java Edition , or all use the End in Bedrock Edition , with no terrain differences.
This biome is used to generate the circle of radius 1000 centered at the 0,0 coordinates in the End . The End central island is generated at the center of this circle, and it's surrounded by a complete vacuum all the way to the edge of the biome. Most of the End features are exclusive to that island, including the ender dragon , the obsidian pillars , the End crystals , the 5×5 spawn platform, the exit portal and the 20 central End gateways . Large amounts of endermen spawn in this biome. It does not rain or snow in this biome unlike the other low-temperature biomes. The outer islands in the End can be accessed using End gateways after the ender dragon has been defeated. In Bedrock Edition , this biome is instead the biggest, as it is used to generate the whole dimension, and chorus trees generate there.
If the biome is used for a superflat world, the sky appears nearly black and an ender dragon spawns at the 0,0 coordinates in the Overworld. Only endermen spawn at night.
Generates as part of the outer islands of the End. This biome represents the empty expanse between the larger islands, populated by the smaller, circular islands. Large amounts of endermen spawn in this biome.
Generates as part of the outer islands of the End. This biome represents the gradual slope from the hilltops of each island down to the cliffs around the edge. End cities generate here, but chorus trees do not. Large amounts of endermen spawn in this biome.
Generates as part of the outer islands of the End. This biome represents the hilltops of each island, and is the only biome in the End where both chorus trees and End cities generate. Large amounts of endermen spawn in this biome.
Generates as part of the outer islands of the End. This biome represents the outer rims of each island, with steep cliffs below the edge. Neither End cities nor chorus trees generate in this biome. Large amounts of endermen spawn in this biome.
Many biomes, made redundant via Caves & Cliffs world generation changes, still exist in Bedrock Edition but have been removed from Java Edition , and are documented on the page linked above.
These biomes can appear only in April Fools snapshots of the game.
This "biome" includes all the other non-custom dimensions biomes. All mobs, blocks, particles and structures in 20w13b (vanilla) can generate in this biome. A dimension can have multiple of these randomly generated biomes.
All biomes use a set of colors for various environmental aspects such as the sky , water , fog , and some blocks . In Bedrock Edition , biomes specify their colors in the client_biome JSON files in the vanilla resource packs . Some biomes specify their colors directly, while others use colormaps or separate JSON files which can also control other environmental effects.
In Bedrock Edition , all biome colors for blocks are also visible on maps . [2]
Biome grass and foliage colors are selected from three 256×256 colormap images: grass.png , foliage.png , and dry_foliage.png under assets/minecraft/textures/colormap ‌ [ JE only ] or textures/colormap ‌ [ BE only ] in the vanilla resource pack . The grass.png colormap sets the colors for grass blocks , short grass , tall grass , ferns , large ferns , ferns in flower pots , sugar canes , bushes and stems of pink petals and wildflowers . Meanwhile, the foliage.png colormap sets the colors for vines and tree leaves of oak, jungle, acacia, dark oak and mangrove. The dry_foliage.png colormap sets the colors for leaf litter . Only the colors in the lower-left halfs of the images are used, even though the upper-right side of foliage.png and dry_foliage.png is colored.
The base temperature and downfall values are used when determining the biome color to select from the colormap. Treating the bottom-right corner of the colormap as 0 for both values, the temperature increases to 1.0 along the X-axis, and the downfall increases to 1.0 along the Y-axis. When a biome's temperature or downfall extends past the lower-left half, it will use the color on the closest edge of the image.
In the following cases, the plants are not tinted exactly according to the default colormap.
In swamps and mangrove swamps, the grass color is based on a noise on the XZ plane. When the value of this noise is less than -0.1, it uses the color #4c763c , otherwise using #6a7039 . The foliage color is #6a7039 in swamps and #8db127 in mangrove swamps. The dry foliage color in swamps and mangrove swamps is #7b5334 .
In Bedrock Edition , all swamp biomes use colormaps to determine these colors, similar to regular colormaps described above.
Dark forest
In dark forests , the grass color is the result of the bitwise AND between the color in the colormap and #fefefe , and then averaging with #28340a . In vanilla, that is #507a32 .
In badlands , wooded badlands and eroded badlands , the grass color is #90814d and the foliage color and dry foliage color is #9e814d .
Cherry grove
The color for grass and foliage in cherry groves is always #b6db61 .
Pale garden
In the pale garden , the grass color is #778272 , the foliage color is #878d76 , and the dry foliage color is #a0a69c .
Sulfur caves
In sulfur caves , the grass color is #aba64f .
Other leaves
The color for spruce leaves is #619961 and the color for birch leaves is #80a755 . Both are not affected by the biome, but determined by biome colormaps in Bedrock Edition .
The base color of the daytime sky in Overworld changes according to the basic temperature value of the biome. The basic temperature is first modified as T = clamp( Temperature / 3 , -1.0, 1.0 ) . Then the triple (0.62222224-0.05T, 0.5+0.1T, 1) is the sky color.
The color of the sky in the pale garden biome is #b9b9b9 , which is unaffected by the above formula. See § List of biome climates below for all sky colors.
The colors and surface opacity of water are defined in the vanilla data pack‌ [ JE only ] or client biome JSON files in vanilla resource packs.‌ [ BE only ] Some biomes in Java Edition , or most biomes in Bedrock Edition have unique water colors. Swamps and warm oceans in Bedrock Edition have unique water surface opacities, 65% and 55% respectively.
The color and density of water and sky fog is different for most biomes, defined by separate JSON files for each biome in Bedrock Edition . The underwater fog color is #050533 with a few exceptions in Java Edition , or the same as the water surface color with some exceptions in Bedrock Edition . The sky fog color is #c0d8ff ‌ [ JE only ] or #abd2ff ‌ [ BE only ] in all Overworld biomes, except pale gardens which use #817770 , and sulfur caves use #8cb831 . Nether biomes and the End have unique fog colors.
Vibrant Visuals ignores default colors for the sky, water, and fog, and adds new effects for each biome or a set of biome. Which environmental settings are used is determined by the biome JSON file, and all environmental settings are stored in separate directories in resource packs. In vanilla, the following effects are affected by the biome:
Water colors are not visible with Vibrant Visuals, but all non-air fog colors still apply asides from the volumetric fog. Vibrant Visuals effects are dynamically blended at biome transitions.
When plants or water are at the borders between or among biomes, the color is affected by the biome of the surrounding blocks at the same Y-level. In Java Edition , the range of the block involved in the calculation can be decreased with the biome blend radius in the options . It takes the plant color or water color of the biomes within a square centered on this block and with the side length being the biome blend radius, and calculates their average value to get the final color for this block.
The sky color and the fog color use the color processed by Gaussian blur from colors of the biomes at each block in the range of 5×5×5 centered on the block the camera is in.
Each biome has a base temperature value (see § List of biome climates ), but the actual temperature value at each location in the biome is also affected by the height of the location. Locations with Y≤80 use the base temperature as actual temperature. At Y=81, the actual temperature value randomly fluctuates up and down by -0.00875 — +0.01125 from the base temperature based on a noise on the XZ plane, and at Y≥81 the actual temperature decreases by 0.00125 ( 1 ⁄ 800 ) every block up.
In frozen oceans and deep frozen oceans , it is also affected by a noise value on the XZ plane. In some regions according to the noise, the base temperature value is always regarded as 0.2. The actual temperature values for these regions are also calculated on this basis. This is detectable in frozen oceans, as its base temperature is low enough to freeze or snow, so that only these regions do not freeze or snow at sea level.
The temperature affects at which height snowfall can occur, the sky and block colors, and whether sponges dry in the air.‌ [ BE only ]
The downfall value is a number between 0.0 and 1.0 (see § List of biome climates ) mainly used for block colors. When the downfall value is greater than 0.85, the biome is marked as humid, which is related only to the random extinction of fire .
Additionally, the downfall controls whether a biome is arid in Bedrock Edition ; if it is 0.0, no rain or snow occurs. Otherwise, a location is rainable when its temperature value is equal or greater than 0.15, and snowable otherwise.
In Java Edition , precipitation is separate from downfall, which can be "true" or "false".
If the base temperature is less than 0.15, it's snowable at any Y level. If equal or greater than 0.15, it will still snow above a certain Y level, caused by temperature decrease above Y=81.
Snowy Plains Ice Spikes Grove Frozen Peaks Jagged Peaks Snowy Slopes Snowy Taiga Snowy Beach Some regions of Frozen Ocean
The exact minimum height for snowfall is randomized per block because the temperature slightly shifts, with a margin of up to 8 blocks. In Bedrock Edition , this is a transition layer where both snow and rain particles are visible at the same time. This transition also appears when moving horizontally between snowy and rainy biomes, and the particle density decreases when moving to a dry biome.
The amount of snow layers generated on the surface is based on the snow accumulation value of the biome. The first value calculates how snow is randomly stacked – a value of 0 results in all blocks covered by 1 snow layer; a value of 0.125 results in some areas not being covered by snow, and snow gets stacked when next to a full block; a higher value adds random patches of higher piles which increase in size and height with the value.
During snowfall, snow can stack infinitely on top of generated snow, unlike in Java Edition where this is controlled by a snow accumulation game rule . The second value calculates how quickly snow accumulates during snowfall.
#9c754d ‌ [ BE only ]
This only applies to Java Edition , in Bedrock Edition the entire dimension is set to the End biome.
Each type of biome has its own Resource Location , shown in the following tables.
Before 1.13 biomes used to have a numerical ID. These can be seen in this page: Biome/IDs before 1.13
In versions after 1.13 biomes use a numerical ID which is determined by the alphabetical ordering of their resource locations. [verify] This information is however only used by the game internals and is not included below.
Each type of biome has its own Resource Location / IDs , shown in the following tables.
Issues relating to "Biome" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Dimensions are parallel worlds within a Minecraft world characterized by a way of generation, biomes and structures, and other things unique to one dimension. Each dimension is its own separate 3D space, not affecting other dimensions. Players can explore and discover various dimensions in Minecraft , typically through the use of portals . Content creators can also make custom dimensions to explore in Minecraft .
The daylight cycle and weather may work differently or not exist in different dimensions, as well as respawn points (such as beds and respawn anchors ).
The Overworld is the primary dimension in Minecraft . It has a wide variety of unique biomes to explore, and is easily the most diverse of the dimensions. Players typically spend most of their time in this dimension.
Unique features of the Overworld include:
The Nether is a hot dimension where lava flows equivalent to water's flow characteristics. It is so hot that water evaporates and wet sponges dry out the instant they are placed . The ground mainly consists of netherrack , but soul sand covers the surface of soul sand valleys , and the basalt deltas consist of basalt and blackstone . A player can go to the Nether by entering a Nether portal in the Overworld . In most biomes, hostile mobs spawn and attack players, although in the warped forest only endermen spawn who don't attack players unless provoked.
Unique features of the Nether include:
The End is a space-like dimension with floating End stone islands, accessible with an End portal in a stronghold . In its center, there is a large lone island on which the ender dragon fight takes place; the outer islands are about a thousand blocks of void away from it. The End is a barren environment, but it is the place where some of the most unique and useful items in the game can be obtained, such as the elytra or shulker boxes .
Unique features of the End include:
Using data packs , it is possible to create custom dimensions and dimension types that have different biomes , world generation and properties from the regular dimensions.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Using add-ons , it is possible to create custom dimensions however, currently it is only possible to control scripts and there is no world generation. Each custom dimension is similar to an Overworld void world generation, with same height limit.
The sky dimension was a scrapped dimension that would have contained floating land masses and was planned to be added in the Adventure Update . Eventually, the code for the sky dimension was repurposed for The End instead. [1]
In a Twitch livestream, the developers briefly mentioned the idea of a "dream dimension" that would be exclusive to Pocket Edition . [2]
In multiple April Fools updates , new joke dimensions have been added for those updates only.
In the joke snapshot 20w14∞, about 2.1474 billion (2^31) dimensions were added. These only existed in 20w14∞ and these changes were not kept in later snapshots. There were also several easter egg dimensions, each having their own unique feature, including the ant dimension, the sponge dimension, the library dimension, the bridges dimension, the isolation dimension, the slime dimension, and the skygrid dimension. The other dimensions were completely random.
In 23w13a_or_b , there is a dimension called the Moon . The Moon dimension is primarily made of cheese and features a mob called the moon cow . The Moon also features lunar bases which expand into a tree-like structure when activated.
In 24w14potato , the Potato dimension was added. It is similar to the unused Sky dimension, and features many potato-themed mobs, blocks, structures, and a boss .
Issues relating to "Dimension" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A mob (short for mobile , mobile entity , or mobile object ) [1] is a game entity controlled by its own mob AI . All mobs can be attacked or hurt (from falling , attacked by a player or another mob, falling into the void , hit by an arrow , etc. with the exception of natural creakings ), and have some form of voluntary movement. Different types of mobs often have unique AI and loot .
Mobs spawn in various ways. Most mobs spawn naturally, depending on the light level , biome , and their surroundings. For example, most animals are found in bright areas on the surface, while hostile monsters are commonly found in the dark (whether it's a cave , monster room , mansion , or at night). Animals usually spawn upon chunk generation, while hostile monsters spawn and despawn in a certain radius around the player.
Some mobs, including passive and neutral animals, and even hoglins , have the ability to be bred by the player , creating offspring. Villagers cannot be directly bred by the player, instead randomly breeding depending on the time of day and the number of beds , which allows players to manipulate their likelihood of breeding.
Most mobs never spawn on transparent blocks, in water (except aquatic creatures), in lava (except for striders ), on bedrock , or on blocks less than a full block tall (such as slabs placed on the bottom half). The exception is monster spawners , from which monsters can spawn naturally on any block including air .
Some mobs (like the snow golem and the wither ) require that the player "construct" them before being able to spawn. The iron golem can spawn naturally and can also be constructed. The ender dragon can be respawned with four end crystals . A rare occurrence of spawning are the jockey mobs, which is a mob riding another mob.
Players can also spawn mobs easily by using spawn eggs in Creative mode or the / summon command.
Many mobs despawn (cease to exist) after a certain amount of time if far enough from the player. In Java Edition , most passive mobs do not despawn, while most monsters do. In Bedrock Edition , almost all mobs despawn. Mobs can be prevented from despawning if they are named with a name tag , and in Java Edition , also in a boat .
Mobs are affected by the environment in the same ways as the player; they are subject to physics , and they can be hurt by the same things that harm the player (catching on fire, falling, drowning, attacks from weapons, the /kill command, etc.). Some mobs may be resistant or immune to certain hazards, such as some Nether mobs, which are immune to fire. All aquatic mobs except dolphins are immune to drowning. Mobs can ride minecarts and other mobs can climb up ladders . When mobs are killed, they turn to smoke particles and drop items that may be useful resources.
Each type of mob in Minecraft has a certain AI (artificial intelligence) system with different behaviors and mechanics. Mobs ordinarily wander around at random if there is a player within 32 blocks and usually avoid walking off blocks high enough to cause falling damage. Many mobs have an advanced path-finding system that allows them to navigate through obstacles to get to a desired object or destination. Passive mobs flee in random directions after being hurt, while hostile mobs face and chase/attack the player as soon as the player comes close. Neutral mobs remain neutral until a player or mob provokes it (usually by attacking), at which point the neutral mob becomes hostile toward and attacks the entity that hit it. Most mobs are aware of players within (a Euclidian distance ) 16 blocks of them, but some can see farther. Conversely, most mobs can be heard by players up to 16 blocks away. Mobs are harmless to players in Creative mode.
Most mobs cannot see through most solid blocks, including semi-transparent blocks such as ice , glass , tall grass , or glass panes . In Java Edition , all mobs (except for wardens [2] ) try to avoid walking over rails unless pushed onto the rails by other mobs.
Using specific name tags on mobs can result in unusual behavior or rendering. See Name Tag § Easter eggs for details.
Mobs are listed and classified by their nature from the player's perspective. For more details on a particular mob, click on them to view their individual page.
Passive mobs never deliberately attack players, even when provoked or attacked, though some of them may attack other mobs. Most of them are animals and can be bred or tamed .
Neutral mobs are sometimes passive and sometimes hostile toward the player. These mobs usually require provocation from the player in one way or another to attack or become hostile, while some can be naturally hostile and have a way to be pacified.
Hostile mobs are dangerous, aggressive monsters that always attack the player within their respective detection ranges. Monsters in general, whether passive or neutral , are involved in mechanics pertaining to hostile mobs regardless of behavior.
Boss mobs are special hostile mobs that are tougher and more dangerous than other mobs. They do not spawn randomly and are confronted intentionally. All boss mobs have a bossbar featuring their name and health. Boss mobs provide unique challenges and equivalent rewards, such as XP or useful items.
These passive mobs are designed primarily for Adventure maps and add-on creating, rather than regular gameplay. They are used in Minecraft Education for coding, education, or interactive learning. Both are only accessible with commands in Bedrock Edition .
This passive mob is only exclusive to China Edition .
These mobs cannot spawn without the use of / summon or spawn eggs . Old villagers and old zombie villagers cannot be spawned with /summon, making them inaccessible in vanilla.
These entities are grouped within the " living entities " category in the game code. In Bedrock Edition , they are all under the mob class in the entity format . Mannequins and cameras are creative -only entities.
Removed mobs are mobs that no longer exist in current versions of the game.
Mobs that were added as April Fools' Day jokes in Java Edition , and cannot be found in the normal version.
These mobs, although similar to their non-joke counterparts, are their own mobs.
Mobs that were announced by Mojang as potential additions to the game, but either got scrapped or shelved indefinitely.
Mobs that were briefly mentioned by Mojang Studios on social media and other platforms.
Some non-boss mobs resist a certain percentage of knockback from attacks.
Issues relating to "Mob" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A redstone circuit is a build that is primarily focused on dealing with logic and redstone signals. Circuits can be used to transmit redstone signals, perform operations with logic gates , store information, shorten or lengthen redstone signals, make redstone clocks, and more.
A useful distinction can be made between a circuit performing operations on signals (generating, modifying, combining, etc.), and a mechanism using the environment (moving blocks, opening doors, changing the light level, producing sound, etc). Making this distinction allows us to talk about the various circuits separately, and let all players choose whichever circuits are useful for their purposes. The machines controlled by redstone circuits can range from simple devices such as automatic doors and light switches to complex devices such as elevators, automatic farms, or even in-game computers. However, this article provides only an overview of redstone circuits as above. These can be used to control simple mechanisms, or combined as parts of a larger build. Each circuit type on this page has links to its own page, which provides greater detail about them and give schematics for multiple variations of each.
Before working with any but the most basic redstone circuits, an understanding of some basic concepts is required: power, signal strength, redstone ticks, block updates, etc. Some relevant articles are listed below:
Most circuits are described using Schematic diagrams; some of these require multiple images to show one or two layers per image. See the Help:Schematic page for details on how various blocks and components are represented.
The wiki describes circuit size (the volume of the rectangular solid it occupies) with the notation of depth × width × height , including support/floor blocks, but not including inputs/outputs.
Another method used for describing circuit size in the Minecraft community is to ignore non-redstone blocks simply used for support (for example, blocks under redstone dust or repeaters). However, this method is unable to distinguish between flat and 1-high circuits, as well as some other circuit differences.
Sometimes it is convenient to compare circuits simply by the area of their footprint (e.g., 3×4 for a circuit three-block wide by four blocks long), or by a single dimension important in a particular context (e.g., length in a sequence of sub-circuits, height in a confined space, etc.).
Several features may be considered desirable design goals:
Other design goals may include reducing the delay a sub-circuit adds to a larger circuit, reducing the use of resource-expensive components (redstone, nether quartz, etc.), and re-arranging or redesigning a circuit to make it as small as possible.
Some components are not available before a player has access to the Nether, which limits the designs available. In particular, redstone comparators , observers and daylight detectors require nether quartz , which is available only from the Nether. Additionally, redstone lamps require glowstone , which is occasionally available from trading or witches , but is much more plentiful in the Nether.
Although the number of ways to construct circuits is endless, certain patterns of construction occur repeatedly. The following sections attempt to categorize the circuits that have proven useful to the Minecraft community, while the main articles describe the specific circuits that fall into those categories.
Some of these circuits might be used by themselves for simple control of mechanisms, but frequently the player needs to combine them into more complex circuits to meet the needs of a mechanism.
Some aspects of signal transmission can be helpful to understand: transmission types, vertical transmission, repeaters, and diodes.
A logic gate is a circuit that takes one or more inputs and produces a single output when some condition has been met. The strength of the input signal in these circuits usually doesn't matter. When an input or output supplies a redstone signal, it is usually just referred to as "on", and when there is no signal, it is referred to as "off". For example, an AND gate takes two redstone signals as input, and outputs a redstone signal only if both inputs are greater than 0. That is, an AND gate is on only when both inputs are on.
In electronic or programming diagrams, logic gates are typically shown as if they were individual devices; However, when building redstone devices in Minecraft , all logic gates are formed from multiple blocks and components, which interact to produce the desired results.
A pulse circuit produces a redstone signal for a specified amount of time, changes the duration of an input signal, or reacts to signals of a particular duration. Other circuits or mechanisms may require pulses of a particular duration to operate properly, or can use pulse duration to convey information.
A circuit that is stable in one output state and unstable in the other is known as a monostable circuit . [ note 1 ] Many pulse circuits are monostable because their OFF state is stable, but their ON state soon reverts to OFF.
A clock circuit is a pulse generator that produces a loop of specific pulses repeatedly. Some are designed to run forever, while others can be stopped and started.
A simple clock with only two states of equal duration is named for the duration of its ON state (e.g., for example, a clock that alternates between a 5-tick ON state and a 5-tick OFF state is called a 5-clock) while others are usually named for their period (the time it takes for the clock to return to its original state; for example, a "1-minute clock" might produce a 1-tick pulse every 60 seconds).
Memory circuits maintain their output until they receive a signal that tells them to change their output. In simple terms, memory circuits stay on or off until they receive a signal telling them to turn off or on. This means that a memory circuit's state (output) depends on the current input and the previous inputs. Most other circuits just temporarily generate an output based on the current input.
Most memory circuits are called "latches" or "flip-flops"; these are named after real-life electronic circuits because they behave similarly. Some basic types of memory circuits are outlined below. See here for an explanation of technical terms.
Memory circuits are named based on the kinds of input they take and any logic gates they use.
Many other memory circuits are possible.
Pistons allow players to design circuits that are smaller and/or faster than the standard, redstone-only counterparts. An understanding of standard redstone circuits is helpful, as this tutorial is focused on the circuit design rather than the function. The main components here are sticky pistons , regular pistons, redstone wire , repeaters and redstone torches .
There are several benefits of piston circuitry:
These circuits aren't generally needed for redstone projects, but might find use in complex projects, proofs of concept, and thought experiments. Some examples:
Crafting is the process of constructing tools , items , and blocks in Minecraft that can be performed via the inventory , a crafting table , or automatically using a crafter .
Players in Survival and Adventure mode, as well as Creative in Bedrock Edition and Spectator in Java Edition (although unable to interact with the GUI), have access to a 2×2 crafting grid from their inventory screen. Players craft by arranging items in the crafting grid to match a given recipe. Small crafting recipes that are at most 2×2 can be made there, including wooden planks , sticks , crafting tables , and torches .
To craft more complex items, a crafting table must be created, placed, and used . This brings up an interface with a larger 3×3 crafting grid in which the player can use to craft any crafting recipe in the game. Recipes fitting the 2×2 grid can also be crafted in the crafting table's 3×3 grid. There is a recipe book button in the inventory where the player can access all of their unlocked crafting recipes.
Some recipes don't require their ingredients to be arranged in a specific way on the crafting grid. These are commonly known as "shapeless" recipes. For example, players may craft a fermented spider eye by placing its ingredients anywhere within the grid.
Most recipes must have their ingredients placed in the correct relative positions on the crafting grid. These are commonly known as "shaped " recipes. Ingredients in shaped recipes can be moved up, down, left, or right. They can also be flipped horizontally, but not vertically. For example, a 3×1 recipe, such as bread , can be made using the top, middle, or bottom row of the 3×3 grid, and a bow may be made with the strings placed on the left instead of on the right.
There are recipes that may not be moved or mirrored in this way. These are commonly known as "fixed" recipes. For example, dyes in banner recipes must be specifically placed to achieve the desired pattern‌ [ BE only ] . No fixed recipes exist in Java Edition , but they can be added by data packs , add-ons , or mods .
Unlike other in-game actions such as smelting , brewing , and enchanting , crafting is completely silent.
Crafting can be automated using the crafter .
The simplest way to do this is for the player to add the items for the crafting into the crafter manually, however this process can itself be automated using hoppers . In order to control which slots the hopper puts the item into it is possible to disable certain slots to prevent the input of items. When items are put into a crafter automatically they fill every enabled slot equally from left to right and top to bottom, in that order. If all slots are disabled, then hoppers connected to it cannot put items in it.
The crafter can craft anything that a normal crafting table can.
Crafters require a redstone signal to activate.
Automated crafting is useful in both storage systems and automated farms , as it provides a way to automatically craft items and blocks that otherwise requires manual input.
The recipe book is a mechanic that serves as a catalog of recipes and as a crafting guide. It shows every crafting recipe that the player has unlocked.
Crafting recipes are organized in several different categories. The categories differ between Java and Bedrock .
In Bedrock Edition , categories consist of craftable items from each Creative inventory tab.
In Java Edition , the categories are as follows:
Recipes, including crafting recipes, can be configured by data packs in Java Edition or add-ons in Bedrock Edition .
To save space, some recipes are animated (requires JavaScript ). On this wiki, shapeless recipes are marked with a pair of intertwined arrows on the crafting table graphic, while fixed crafting recipes are marked by an exclamation point. These symbols do not appear in the game.
Some items had different crafting recipes and have since been updated in later versions of Minecraft .
Indev 0.31 20100130
Infdev 20100227-1414
Alpha v1.0.14
Recipe became shapeless .
Changed to 3 wheat instead of 6.
Indev 20100223
Changed to leather instead of light gray wool .
Note: Wool was called Cloth, and Leather Armor was called Cloth Armor at that time.
Alpha v1.0.8
Changed output to 2 ladders instead of 1.
Changed to 4 string instead of 9.
Recipe became shapeless .
Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3
Changed output to 3 ladders instead of 2.
Alpha v1.0.6
Recipe became shapeless and changed to 3 paper and 1 leather instead of only 3 paper .
Recipe became shapeless .
Recipe became shapeless .
1.19.4-pre1
v0.9.0 build 1
v0.12.1 build 1
Beta 1.10.0.3
Recipe became shapeless .
Beta 1.10.0.3
Was changed to match Java Edition .
Beta 1.14.0.2
Beta/Preview 1.19.60.20
Beta/Preview 1.19.60.20
Was changed to match Java Edition .
Beta/Preview 1.20.10.20
Was changed to match Java Edition .
Beta/Preview 1.20.10.20
Was changed to match Java Edition .
Beta/Preview 1.20.10.21
Beta/Preview 1.21.0.24
Beta/Preview 1.21.60.25
Beta/Preview 1.21.90.21
Beta/Preview 1.21.90.21
Beta/Preview 1.21.110.23
Changed to match Java Edition .
Beta/Preview 1.21.120.23
Some items could be crafted previously, but cannot be crafted in the current version of Minecraft .
"Dandelion Yellow" and "Rose Red" are the former names for Yellow dye and Red dye, respectively.
Issues relating to "Crafting" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Enchantments modify the behavior of tools, weapons, and armor, granting additional abilities or strengthening existing ones. A glint animation appears on items to indicate that they are enchanted.
The player can apply enchantments to items by:
Enchanted items can be obtained from:
In Creative mode, items can be enchanted using an enchanting table or anvil without using lapis lazuli or experience levels. Enchanted books can be found in the Creative inventory .
Enchanting table
An enchanting table can be used to enchant unenchanted items at the cost of lapis lazuli and experience levels. Only one of the three random offered enchantments can be selected, however there is a chance for additional enchantments to also be applied. The quality of the enchantments increase with their experience cost and the number of nearby bookshelves .
An anvil can be used to combine the enchantments of two like items, or an item and an enchanted book; one of the items is always sacrificed in the process. Combining items in an anvil costs experience levels; the amount depends on the enchantments of the sacrificed item, and the number of times the items have been used in an anvil.
Some villagers sell enchanted equipment or books. Armorer , fisherman , fletcher , toolsmith , and weaponsmith villagers sell enchanted tools, weapons, or armor with non-treasure enchantments. Librarian villagers sell enchanted books that can have almost any enchantment, including most treasure enchantments, but excluding the Soul Speed, Swift Sneak, and Wind Burst enchantments.
Piglins can trade enchanted books or iron boots with a random level of Soul Speed when given gold ingots.
Enchanted books, bows, and fishing rods can be obtained from fishing up treasure loot.
Some mobs can spawn with enchanted weapons or armor, which have an 8.5% chance of dropping if the mob is killed by a player.
Generated loot
Most structures that contain loot chests have a chance of generating enchanted books or items.
In Bedrock Edition , pillagers and vindicators spawned during a raid have a chance to spawn with enchanted weapons or armor, which have a chance of dropping if the mob is killed by a player.
The effects of enchantments vary significantly. Some enchantments increase protection against specific types of damage, others increase damage dealt to certain classes of mobs. Some enchantments grant unique abilities such as summoning a lightning bolt or turning water into ice blocks. See § List of enchantments .
Many enchantments have multiple levels. Generally, the higher the level, the more potent the enchantment's effects are. Levels are stylized as Roman numerals (I, II, III,...). The minimum level of any enchantment is I; the maximum level depends on the enchantment. When applied using / give , which ignores regular maximum levels, the maximum allowed level for any enchantment is 255. [1]
Some enchantments are incompatible with one another. This means that it is not possible for the player to apply both conflicting enchantments to the same item using standard methods, including / enchant , although / give can force conflicting enchantments onto the same item with varying results to their effects. Enchanting tables and generated loot do not produce items with conflicting enchantments, and attempting to combine conflicting enchantments in an anvil results in the sacrificed item's incompatible enchantment being lost.
Some enchantments are incompatible with certain items. For example, Protection , which decreases damage, cannot be applied to swords or axes , and Sharpness , which increases attack damage cannot be applied to armor .
Primary and secondary items
An enchantment's primary items are the set of items that can receive the enchantment from an enchanting table. Some items that cannot receive a particular enchantment from an enchanting table can still have the enchantment applied to them by combining the item with an enchanted book in an anvil; these are the enchantment's secondary items .
Treasure enchantments cannot be obtained through an enchanting table, and are never found on natural equipment worn by mobs or on enchanted equipment traded by villagers. Most treasure enchantments, however, can be generated on enchanted books sold by librarians . If a treasure enchantment is tradable, it has double the price (before capping to 64 emeralds) compared to a non-treasure enchantment of the same level.
Some treasure enchantments, such as Soul Speed, Swift Sneak, and Wind Burst, can only be obtained in specific structures or through a specific game mechanic.
Curse enchantments apply negative modifiers to items and cannot be removed once applied. Attempting to disenchant an item with curse enchantments removes all other enchantments, except for the curse enchantments.
Enchantments can be removed from an item by combining it with another item in the grindstone or in the crafting grid. These methods of disenchanting items do not remove curse enchantments from items.
The table below shows which enchantments can be applied to particular items.
The tables below show which enchantments can be obtained through an enchanting table, and which can only be applied through an anvil.
Using / give , items can be enchanted at higher levels than in vanilla gameplay. Some enchantments continue to increase their effectiveness at higher levels. However, there is a point where higher levels no longer increase effectiveness. The table below shows the effective limits for enchantments (also found here ).
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Enchanting", "Enchantment", or "Enchanted" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Brewing is the process of creating potions , splash potions , lingering potions , and medicine ‌ [ Minecraft Education only ] by adding various ingredients to water bottles in a brewing stand .
There is no provided in-game recipe book for brewing.
Base ingredients are ingredients that can be added directly to a water bottle . Nether warts are used to make awkward potions, and are the fundamental of the base ingredients, as it is required to make the majority of potions.
Modifiers are ingredients used to alter the properties of a potion or to change a potion effect into a different one. The fermented spider eye is unique as it is the only modifier that can convert a water bottle directly into a usable potion .
Generally, upgrading a potion involves a trade-off between duration and potency. A potion with an enhanced effect has shorter duration, and a potion with extended duration cannot have an enhanced effect. However:
A fermented spider eye changes a potion's base effect, often reversing it or producing a negative potion.
By adding gunpowder, a drinking potion can be turned into a splash potion , which can be thrown to coat entities within the place of impact with a status effect. Subsequently, adding dragon's breath to a splash potion makes a lingering potion, creating a cloud that inflicts effects on entities that enter its area.
Effect ingredients imbue an awkward potion with a particular effect but do not alter potion duration or intensity. When added directly to a water bottle, most of these ingredients produce a mundane potion. The exceptions to this are the golden carrot, pufferfish, turtle shell, and phantom membrane, which cannot be added directly to a water bottle. A corrupted version of a potion can be made by adding a fermented spider eye to it.
Base potions are potions without effects, brewed by adding a single base ingredient to a water bottle. Of these, only the awkward potion can be imbued with an effect ingredient to create a potion with an effect.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Effect potions are primarily created by adding an effect ingredient to an awkward potion, which is created by adding nether wart to a water bottle. Certain effects require a potion to be corrupted by a fermented spider eye. The potion of Weakness can additionally be created by simply adding a fermented spider eye to a water bottle, and it is the only potion that can be brewed without nether wart .
Undead mobs react differently to effects than other mobs. They take damage from potions of Healing , gain health from potions of Harming , and are unaffected by potions of Poison and Regeneration .
Enhanced: Instant Health II: Restores health by 8 HP .
Enhanced: Regeneration II: Restores health by every 1.25 seconds.
Enhanced: Strength II: Increases player's melee attack damage by 6 HP .
Enhanced: Speed II: Increases movement speed, sprinting speed, and jumping length by 40%.
Enhanced: Jump Boost II: Increases jump height by 150%.
Enhanced: Poison II: Depletes health by 1 HP every 0.6 seconds.
Enhanced: Instant Damage II: Inflicts 12 HP × 6 damage.
Enhanced: Slowness IV: Reduces movement speed by 60%.
Enhanced: Slowness VI, Resistance IV: Reduces movement speed by 90% and reduces incoming damage by 80%.
Brewing recipes in Bedrock Edition are a superset of that in Java Edition , which means that all Java Edition recipes are also available in Bedrock Edition , but not the other way round.
Cures are brewed from awkward potions using different elements . Drinking these removes the specified bad effect. They cannot be modified into splash, lingering, extended, or enhanced versions.
The uncraftable potion , potion of Luck ‌ [ JE only ] and the potion of Decay ‌ [ BE only ] cannot be brewed, and can be obtained only through commands or the Creative inventory .
In Bedrock Edition , brewing recipes can be customized through addons using the same system as other recipes.
Issues relating to "Brewing" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Experience ( EXP or XP for short) can be gained from defeating mobs or performing many kinds of other actions. Experience has no direct effect on the player character, but it can be used to enhance their equipment through enchanting , or by using an anvil to repair, rename, or combine enchantments on equipment. Most sources of experience are produced in the form of experience orbs . In Java Edition , experience gained affects the player's score on the death screen .
Experience orbs also recover durability on items with Mending that are being worn or are in-hand.
Experience can be gained from several different sources. Most sources drop experience in the form of orbs, which can be claimed by any player, while a few methods directly award the player experience upon completing the action.
Gathering experience points increases the player's experience level by gradually filling a bar on the bottom of the screen until a new level is achieved when the bar is full. When the player dies, they drop experience orbs worth 7 * current level experience points, up to a maximum of 100 points (enough to reach approximately 7.4 levels), and all of the other experience vanishes. If the gamerule keepInventory is set to true, the experience is kept even if the player dies.
Most experience sources drop experience in the form of experience orbs , which can then be claimed by any player.
Experience orbs fade between green and yellow colors and float or glide toward the player up to a distance of 7.25 blocks (calculated from the center of player's feet and the center of the experience orb), speeding up as they get nearer to the player. Experience orbs pulled toward a player are slowed by cobwebs. Experience orbs can also be pulled around or away from the player by running water currents.
When collected, experience orbs make a bell-like sound for a split second. Unlike items , experience points are picked up gradually: no matter how many orbs are in the range of the player, they are added to the player's experience one at a time (10 orbs/second). In extreme cases, this can result in the player being followed by a swarm of orbs for many seconds. If an experience orb isn't collected within 5 minutes of its appearance, it despawns.
Experience orbs vary in value. The general worth of an orb is reflected by its size, with eleven possible sizes corresponding to specific values. The three smallest sizes are the most commonly encountered, as the majority of experience dropped by mobs and blocks is less than ten. Dense experience orbs with values 17 or higher have orange "eyes" or "cores", and are less frequently encountered, most commonly from defeating the ender dragon , wither and other players , disenchanting objects on a grindstone , breaking spawners , and collecting items from high-traffic furnaces . For performance improvement, experience orbs of the same value can merge into a single entity, but they do not create a higher value orb.
Naturally spawned orbs always have an integer value of 1–11, 17, 37, 73, 149, 307, 617, 1237, or 2477. Fishing, breeding, and trading drop a single orb with a random value in the appropriate range. Breaking blocks, killing mobs and players, smelting items, and bottles o' enchanting calculate their total experience amount and then split it into the base values of orbs by size (1, 3, 7, 17, 37, 73, 149, 307, 617, 1237, and 2477).
Higher values are chosen first, so, for example, a total value of 1000 would be dropped as orbs with values 617, 307, 73, and 3. While the first ender dragon in a world drops 12,000 experience, it is dropped in 10 waves of 1000 and one of 2000, so no orbs of value 2477 are dropped. Such orbs can exist in the world via furnaces that have had a lot of traffic.
Like items , experience orbs float when on water. Experience orbs can be destroyed by fire, lava, explosions, and cacti, and can trigger pressure plates and tripwires.
In Bedrock Edition , although mob drops spawn the instant the final blow is dealt to the mob, experience orbs do not appear until the mob entity disappears and the smoke appears. In Java Edition , experience orbs appear in the same spatial and temporal location as loot when an entity is killed.
Orbs with negative values can be created using the / summon command, either using values below 0 or above 32767 due to 16-bit integer overflow . They use the smallest texture of experience orb.
Negative orbs behave differently from positive orbs, namely that they do not deduct experience when collected by the player.
They deduct durability from a tool enchanted with Mending , provided the tool is already damaged prior to collection of the orbs. [3]
The following mobs and similar entities do not drop experience when killed:
The formulas for figuring out how many experience orbs needed to get to the next level are as follows:
One can determine how much experience has been collected to reach a level using the equations:
Likewise, to get the number of levels from the total experience value, one can utilize the following inverse equations:
The score is the number of experience the player has collected since their last death. This number is the total experience the player has collected, rather than the amount of experience they had upon death. When the player dies, the score is displayed on the death screen.
Java Edition : Experience orbs do not use entity-dependent sound events.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Experience orbs have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The experience level costs were heavily revised in snapshot 12w22a and 12w23a , and again in version 1.8. Before these, reaching level 50 (the maximum usable on a single enchantment) required 4625 experience, corresponding to defeating 925 hostile mobs (assuming the "common" ones.) Afterward, considerably less experience is needed to get into higher levels. Higher levels cost more experience than lower ones, but the levels are still easier to get than in 1.2.5 . Now, level 30 is the maximum for enchantments , and that cost is equivalent of 279 "common" enemies, less than 1/3 the old price.
A player dropping excessive experience orbs upon death may cause performance degradation in the game.
Issues relating to "Experience" or "Orb" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Trading is a gameplay mechanic that allows players to exchange emeralds for items , and vice versa, with villagers and wandering traders . Trading can allow the acquisition of items that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to obtain, such as enchanted books with "treasure" enchantments (e.g., Mending ), bottles o' enchanting , and chainmail armor .
Pressing use on an adult villager with a profession, or on a wandering trader , opens a menu, allowing a player to trade with that merchant. This action pauses any pathfinding the merchant was doing and makes it face you. If the merchant takes damage while trading, the trading menu closes. The same thing happens if they walk or are transported far enough away.
All transactions involve emeralds . Trading is the only method of acquiring the globe banner pattern , arrows of Decay ,‌ [ BE only ] as well as all types of explorer maps except buried treasure maps in Survival mode. It is also the only renewable way to obtain bells , diamond gear, [ note 1 ] lapis lazuli ,‌ [ BE only ] bottles o' enchanting , glass , sand , red sand , coral blocks , and small dripleaves .
Villagers have five career levels that can be increased by trading with them. Each villager starts at the novice level. A villager's level can be seen in the trading menu. The badge that a villager wears can also be identified: stone for a novice, iron for an apprentice, gold for a journeyman, emerald for an expert, and diamond for a master. Trading until the villager's trading bar gets full unlocks the next level of trades. When a player trades with a villager, both the villager and the player gain experience . All villager trades reward the player with 3–6 experience plus an additional 5 experience if the villager levels up with the trade. Trading with a wandering trader also rewards the player with some experience, although the trader does not have experience levels to gain. A villager levels up when its experience bar becomes full and gains up to two‌ [ JE only ] or three‌ [ BE only ] new trades and retains its existing trades.
When a villager levels up its profession, it receives 10 seconds of Regeneration I (totaling to 4 HP of restoration), which emits pink particles. The villager also emits green plus-shaped particles.
Trades from the master level would still reward the villager with experience, but it has no actual effect as the villager can't level up any further.
Each badge is 2×3 pixels except the novice (stone) badge, which is 4×4 pixels.
In Java Edition , villagers have a maximum of 10 trades. Each level unlocks a maximum of two new trades. If a level has a pool of more than two trades, the two offered trades are chosen randomly from the set. For example, a novice farmer randomly picks 2 out of 5 possible trades (buy wheat, buy potatoes, buy carrots, buy beetroots, or sell bread). Master librarians are currently the only exception, as they pick 3 trades; this is visible when only the Villager Trade Rebalance experiment is enabled, as the default pool contains only two possible choices so those two trades are offered.
In Bedrock Edition , each level unlocks 1, 2 or 3 trade slots; the amount of slots unlocked is fixed and depends on the profession and its level. Overall, villagers have 7–10 trade slots. For each slot, one trade is chosen randomly from a pool. For example, a novice farmer has two trade slots: for the first slot, it picks 1 out of 4 possible trades (buy wheat, buy potatoes, buy carrots or buy beetroots); for the second slot, only 1 trade is available (sell bread), so it is always offered. Cartographers are currently the only exception; for the apprentice, journeyman, and expert levels 2 trades are randomly chosen from the respective pools without being bound to specific trade slots.
A villager's profession dictates the trading pool used to determine its trades. For example, villagers wearing straw hats are farmers, so their trades are based on the Farmer trade pool. Each profession unlocks a predefined and finite set of offers. Different professions are assigned to each villager based on their job-site block. This profession is indicated by their appearance and in the trading interface. Novice villagers who have not traded can lose their profession and change back into unemployed villagers if their claimed job site block is removed. Removing and then replacing a job site block can alter the trades offered, and a villager with no experience resets its trades every so often. Once a player trades with a villager, the villager keeps its profession forever and subsequently locks in the offered trades.
Each trade can be used a maximum number of times, after which the villager runs out of stock, and the trade becomes disabled. The exact number is different for each item and referenced in the tables below. When villagers work at their job site blocks , they activate their offers again, up to twice per day. In Bedrock Edition , villagers need to be linked to a bed to restock their trades (it is not necessary for them to sleep, but they require a bed nearby). When an offer is disabled, a red "X" appears in the trading interface in Java Edition , or the trading slot becomes red in Bedrock Edition , and the villager displays the same particle effect as an offer being created.
When buying items from players, villagers ignore additional item data ; this allows, for example, selling renamed or enchanted items, as well as lodestone compasses instead of regular compasses in Java Edition . When the Villager Trade Rebalance experiment is enabled, taiga armorers can also accept armor of any durability.
All price fluctuations affect only the first item involved in trade; for example, for an initial trade of 32 sticks for 1 emerald, the price might be driven down to 1 stick or up to 64 sticks for 1 emerald, but never for 2 emeralds. Additionally, no quantity can go lower than 1 or higher than the stack size.
How strongly demand and reputation affect the price is determined by the price multiplier. The discount from the Hero of the Village effect does not use the price multiplier.
Demand is tracked per item and is initially minus two times the number of times the villager has the trade in stock. Villagers restock twice per day, at which point they subtract the number of possible purchases before running out of stock and add twice the number of actually made purchases. When the demand becomes positive, the price is increased by the initial price times the price multiplier times the demand, rounded down.
Reputation is tracked per player by each villager, though villagers can share the reputation of players. Negative reputation gives price penalties‌ [ Java Edition only ] and positive reputation gives price discounts. Curing a zombie villager gives permanent major positive reputation, trading gives temporary positive reputation, and attacking or killing villagers gives temporary negative reputation. The price is decreased by the price multiplier times the reputation, rounded down, though it can result in an overall price increase only in Java Edition .
The Hero of the Village effect, gained from completing a raid, reduces the price of all villagers by 30% and 6.25% per additional level, both being of to the initial price, giving 55% at level V. This price reduction is rounded down to whole items, but is at least 1.
The formula for the full price can be written as:
Final Price = min ⁡ ( max ⁡ ( ⌊ p ⋅ ( m ⋅ max ⁡ ( 0 , d ) + 1 ) ⌋ − ⌊ m ⋅ r ⌋ − max ⁡ ( 1 , ⌊ p ⋅ ( 0.3 ⋅ sgn ⁡ ( h ) + 0.0625 ⋅ ( h − 1 ) ) ⌋ ) , 1 ) , Stack Size ) ‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Final Price = min ⁡ ( max ⁡ ( ⌊ p ⋅ ( m ⋅ max ⁡ ( 0 , d ) + 1 ) ⌋ − ⌊ m ⋅ max ⁡ ( 0 , r ) ⌋ − max ⁡ ( 1 , ⌊ p ⋅ ( 0.3 ⋅ sgn ⁡ ( h ) + 0.0625 ⋅ ( h − 1 ) ) ⌋ ) , 1 ) , Stack Size ) ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
where p is the initial price, m is the price multiplier, d is the demand, r is the reputation and h is the Hero of the Village level.
If the player attempts to trade with a non-trading villager in Java Edition , it grunts and bobs its head, but if the player tries to do the same thing in Bedrock Edition , nothing happens.
Nitwits are green-coated villagers that cannot gain a profession.
While they can be used for breeding, it is impossible to get a baby nitwit by breeding adult nitwits.
When baby villagers grow up they have a one in ten chance to grow into a nitwit.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
When a nitwit gets zombified and then cured, it becomes an unemployed villager.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Villagers without a job do not trade; they just wear their biome outfits. An unemployed villager gains a profession by claiming an unclaimed job site block . For example, an unclaimed cartography table converts an unemployed villager into a cartographer when the villager claims it, and both the villager and the table emit green particles. An inaccessible (or destroyed) job site block causes the connected villager to lose its profession, but that does not affect the player's popularity in the village.
The appearance of baby villagers is similar to the corresponding adult unemployed villagers. They can't get a job or trade. In Bedrock Edition , they can grow up into nitwits.
In Java Edition , at each level, including Novice, two additional trades become available, unless there is only one trade within that level. If there are more than two possible trades, two are randomly selected.
In Bedrock Edition , there are separate possible trades for each of the up to two slots, and a random trade is selected for each.
Armorers trade various foundry and armor items. Their job site block is the Blast Furnace .
Butchers trade meat and some other food items. Their job site block is the Smoker .
Cartographers trade maps and related items. Their job site block is the Cartography Table .
Clerics trade magic items. Their job site block is the Brewing Stand .
Farmers trade crops and natural foods. Their job site block is the Composter .
Fishermen trade fishing-related items. Their job site block is the Barrel .
Fletchers trade archery-related items. Their job site block is the Fletching Table .
Leatherworkers trade animal products, including leather-related items. Their job site block is the Cauldron .
Librarians trade book-related items. Their job site block is the Lectern .
Masons trade various types of stone. Their job site block is the Stonecutter .
Shepherds trade wool and dyed items. Their job site block is the Loom .
Toolsmiths trade tools and related materials. Their job site block is the Smithing Table .
Weaponsmiths trade weapons and related materials. Their job site block is the Grindstone .
The wandering trader offers nine trades in total: two random trades from the purchasing table, two random trades from the special selling table, and five random trades from the ordinary selling table. These trades are not divided into categories; for example, a single wandering trader can sell 2 different saplings. Each trade is equally likely. [verify]
In the trading GUI, the trade offers are always listed in this order:
Issues relating to "Trading", "Trades", or "Trade system" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Archaeology is a gameplay mechanic that allows the player to find items that represent historical artifacts inside suspicious sand and suspicious gravel .
Players can use a brush on suspicious sand (located in warm ocean ruins , desert pyramids , and desert wells ) or suspicious gravel (located in cold ocean ruins and trail ruins ). Players can discover and obtain artifacts and other loot , such as sticks , emeralds , and pottery sherds , which can be used to craft decorated pots . If a suspicious block falls or is broken, the loot inside is lost.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each desert temple's suspicious sand contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each desert well's suspicious sand contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trail ruin's suspicious gravel contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trail ruin's rare suspicious gravel contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Cold ocean ruins
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each cold ocean ruin's suspicious gravel contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Warm ocean ruins
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each warm ocean ruin's suspicious sand contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Issues relating to "Archaeology" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Fishing is the use of a fishing rod to obtain items, usually fish .
To fish, the player must use a fishing rod to cast the line into a body of water . The player's position does not matter; the player can be in the water, underwater, sitting in a boat , or standing on adjacent land. The depth, size, or origin (player-created or generated) of the body of water does not affect the player's ability to fish in it, but some of these parameters may affect wait times and the possibility of catching treasure; see below.
Once the bobber hits water, the wait time is determined, and the player must wait for a random period between 5 and 30 seconds (100 to 600 ticks at 20 ticks per second) before the hook catches something. Small splashes can be seen around the bobber while it is in the water.
After the wait period has passed, a trail of fishing particles appears, approaching the bobber in a serpentine path (provided that the Particles Video Setting is not set to Minimal). After 1 to 4 seconds, the particles reach the bobber, the bobber dips below the surface, and the player has a approximately half a second‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or evenly-distributed one to two seconds‌ [ Java Edition only ] to reel in the line before the waiting time resets. Removing the bobber from the water during this interval secures the caught item on the line.
To reel in the bobber, the player must use the rod again. Upon a successful reel-in:
Attempting to reel in the bobber while looking at a bed causes the bed to be used instead. The bobber remains where it is, even if the player sleeps in the bed all night.
If the player wanders more than 32 blocks away from the bobber, or if the player stops holding the fishing rod, the bobber and fishing line disappear with no durability reduction to the rod.
The bobber floats up to the water's surface even if the fishing rod is used from underwater unless it hooks onto a mob such as squid or is obstructed by a block.
Fish mobs do not attempt to bite the fish hook and bobber, but can be hooked and reeled as with other mobs.
There are several items obtainable (and therefore renewable) by fishing, most notably fish itself.
The fishing rod usually yields fish, but can occasionally catch treasure or junk instead. A fishing rod without the Luck of the Sea enchantment has an 85% chance of catching fish, a 10% chance of catching junk, and a 5% chance of catching treasure. Each level of the Luck of the Sea enchantment increases the chance of catching a treasure at the expense of reducing the chances of catching fish and junk. The Luck status effect grants the same benefit.
In Java Edition , to catch items in the treasure category, the bobber must be in open water, defined as the 5×4×5 vicinity around the bobber resting on the water surface (2 blocks away horizontally, 2 blocks of air or water above the water surface, and 2 blocks deep). Each horizontal layer in this area must consist only of either air and/or lily pads or water source blocks and/or waterlogged blocks without collision (such as signs, kelp, coral fans, or bubble columns ), while flowing water is not allowed in any layers. Fishing directly in a bubble column also denies treasure items. These conditions are checked every tick to determine if the player is eligible to receive treasure from a fishing attempt. Since the bobber can dip below the surface of the water by more than a full block, the region tested may sometimes start one block below the surface of the water, requiring a three-block deep pool to be eligible for treasure items. If the conditions are not met, only items in the fish and junk categories can be obtained from fishing.
In jungle biome variants, the treasure and fish chances are the same, but the junk loot table is expanded with bamboo.
In jungle biome variants the treasure chances are the same, but the fish table was altered to only include cod and salmon, while the junk table was expanded with bamboo and cocoa beans.
The fishing rod has 64 units of durability in Java Edition and 385 units in Bedrock Edition . Each use costs 1 point, and the rod breaks when all its durability is consumed. The number of uses can be increased if the Unbreaking or Mending enchantments are applied.
The durability cost is subtracted on reel-in, rather than on hooking. Therefore, no penalty is levied for switching to another item or dropping the rod instead of reeling in.
Issues relating to "Fishing" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Farming refers to the systematic production of renewable resources . The technique is typically used to get blocks , food , experience and other desired items. Specific types of farming are listed below.
Farms can be classified as manual, semi-automatic, and fully automatic. Manual farms rely mostly or solely on the player to harvest and restart the farm. Semi-automatic farms use mechanisms to automatically harvest the farm, but they are manually activated by the player. Fully automatic farms do not rely on the player at all and usually use mobs or more complicated mechanisms.
There are other limits to farming regardless of automation:
Many farms require their chunks to be ticked . In Bedrock Edition , all loaded chunks in the world are ticked, but in Java Edition , a chunk must also have a player nearby – specifically, some player must be within 128 blocks (horizontal distance only) of the chunk's center. This affects most block changes, including farmland and other crop farms.
Mobs generally despawn if they do not have a player nearby; details vary by version, but in general mobs can randomly despawn if no player has been within 32 blocks for at least 30 seconds (sometimes 10 seconds), or if no player is within 128 blocks. In either case, the chunk needs to still be loaded for the despawning process to work. This affects most mob farms, especially those which depend on hostile mobs.
Many mobs are protected from despawning; by way of summary:
Within Survival mode, this allows using properly-prepared hostile mobs as part of a farm, e.g., a nametagged zombie in an iron farm.
Tutorials § Mobs lists a wide variety of mobs that can be farmed to produce more of them.
The reason to farm experience is to easily enchant items, or repair tools and armor. Many common experience farms require a difficulty above Peaceful, as they require mobs to spawn. Other uncommon farms use other ways to gain experience, such as fishing or furnaces.
Spawner farming involves waiting at an active monster spawner for monsters to spawn. This includes mobs that do not spawn naturally without the use of spawners, such as cave spiders .
These can be automated with a water pathway transferring the mobs to a convenient collection or killing area.
A similar system can be used to adapt "dark-spawn farms" to experience harvesting: Mobs are funneled into a grinder to soften them up, then a killing chamber where players can take a sword to them without being targeted. There are several considerations here, the hard part is doing them all at once:
Even in Peaceful difficulty, certain crops can be auto-farmed and directed into an automated furnace or smoker . The experience from the smelting is accumulated until the furnace is manually emptied or broken.
Given automatic farms for smelting stock, fuel, and disposal, the only real limit is how much time a player is willing to let a furnace collect experience between harvests. A full chest of items contains 1,728 items, which requires 144 minutes (2 hours 24 minutes, over 6 game days) in a smoker, double that in a plain furnace.
Fuel is difficult to supply automatically, but a bamboo farm may be able to keep up. Alternatively, a fuel chest can be loaded with dried kelp blocks. A chest full of 1,728 items can be smelted by 18 lava buckets, 22 blocks (or 216 pieces) of coal, 288 logs crafted to planks, 87 dried kelp blocks, or four chests full of bamboo.
The smelted result can be collected for use, or discarded.
Fishing provides a steady stream of experience, food, and treasure. Catches include enchanted rods, bows, and books, which can be used directly, combined in an anvil , or converted to experience in a grindstone .
Fishing initially yields an average of 12 experience points per minute, which Lure III can increase to 28 points/minute. The rain bonus increases that to over 33 points/minute. At 28 points/minute, fishing for a Minecraft day (20 minutes) yields 560 experience, enough to raise a player from nothing to level 20.
Cleric villagers can sell bottles o' enchanting , providing a source of experience which can be stored. They are expensive (3 emeralds per bottle), but various crop farms (see below) can produce vast amounts of emeralds. Buying the bottles also grants the usual experience for trading. Each stack of 64 bottles offers an average of 448 experience, enough to elevate to level 18 from zero.
Tutorials § Items lists a wide variety of ways to farm food, other crops, blocks, and other items.
Breeding is a game mechanic that allows certain mobs , including villagers and many animals , to produce offspring.
Some mobs have similar mechanics that are not classified as breeding.
Most animals that can be bred have food items that can be used to lead and breed them (there are a few special cases, described below ). Villagers have their own breeding mechanics (see Villager § Breeding ).
Once an animal notices a player holding its food, it follows the player until either the player is out of range, the player stops holding the item, it begins the breeding process, or it is attacked. Baby animals behave the same way. Most animals are uninterested in food lying on the ground , and those that are do not breed from eating this food.
Any two adult animals of the same species can breed with each other, even if one animal is the parent of the other.
Animals only breed when a player feeds them. One food item needs to be fed to each parent to breed a single baby.
When an animal is fed its food, it enters "love mode", preparing to breed with another animal of the same species that is also in love mode. Animals that are in love mode emit heart particles constantly‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] (see MC-93826 ). When both animals are fed, they pathfind toward each other, up to eight blocks away. The two animals walk into each other for about two and a half seconds, which simulates kissing, and then drop 1–7 XP and end love mode to produce their offspring, the method of which depends on the animal. Most animals immediately spawn a baby animal at the feet of the parents, usually of the same species as their parents. Some animals lay eggs, but the method and location they perform this varies from animal to animal. Chickens are the only animals that can both directly produce babies and lay eggs, as well as the only animals that lay eggs without being fed. After breeding, the parents cannot be fed to breed again for five minutes, but they (and their babies) always follow players holding breeding items. An animal exits love mode if it does not breed 30 seconds after being fed, but it immediately becomes able to be fed and enter love mode again.
Animals can be bred repeatedly to grow a large population of them. The number of animals that are produced starting from a single pair of animals, assuming the offspring are fully grown before breeding again, is represented by this sequence ( OEIS A061418 ):
a 1 = 2 a 2 = 3 a 3 = 4 a 4 = 6 a 5 = 9 a 6 = 13 a 7 = 19 ⋮ a n + 1 = ⌊ 3 2 a n ⌋ ⋮
where ⌊ x ⌋ is the floor function .
The n th term of the sequence can also be computed with this formula: a n = ⌈ K × ( 3 / 2 ) n ⌉ where K = 1.08151366859... and ⌈ x ⌉ is the ceiling function . The constant K is defined to be ( 2 / 3 ) × K ( 3 ) (see OEIS A083286 ).
The following items cannot be used for leading or breeding, but can be used to feed an untamed horse, donkey, or mule, grow a baby, or for healing:
In Bedrock Edition , the following can also be used for healing, but cannot be used for breeding or growing a baby wolf:
When fed, ocelots have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance of trusting the player that fed them, and do not run away. An ocelot does not need to be trusting to breed. In Bedrock Edition , breeding creates a baby ocelot that trusts the player.
A water bucket is returned upon feeding.
Wheat can also be used to feed an untamed llama, grow a baby, or for healing, but it cannot be used to lead or breed llamas.
In Java Edition , pandas breed only if there is at least one bamboo plant (not including shoots) within a 7×7×3 area.
In Bedrock Edition , pandas breed only if there are at least eight bamboo plants placed in a radius of five blocks around them.
Although pandas can eat cake , they cannot be bred with it.
The baby fox always trusts the player who bred the foxes, even when it grows up, and does not run away when approached.
Zoglins cannot breed.
When a bucketed fish item is fed to a nautilus, a water bucket is returned after feeding.
Unlike most mobs that can breed, villagers do not automatically breed when given food. Villager breeding depends on both the number of valid beds in the area (see the village page for full details), as well as whether the villagers are "willing." A villager may become willing if they have 3 bread or 12 carrots / potatoes / beetroots in their inventory. They may also become willing as a result of trading with a player. When they breed, they produce a baby villager . Zombie villagers and wandering traders cannot breed, and baby zombie villagers do not grow up as long as they're not cured.
Baby mobs are smaller variations of their adult counterparts, having small bodies, relatively big heads (with some exceptions), and faster walking speeds. Their sounds are the same as their adult variants but 50% faster and are pitched up by 6 semitones . The only exception to this is tadpoles , which are a wholly unique mob from frogs .
If an allay is given an amethyst shard while it is dancing due to a nearby jukebox playing any music disc , it splits into two allays (itself and a new allay) and the amethyst shard is consumed. After duplication, both allays have a five minute cooldown before being able to duplicate again. Allays do not have a baby form.
There is a chance for a new shulker of the same color to spawn when a shulker is hit with a shulker bullet (including one of its own).
The following conditions must be met:
If the attempt succeeds a new shulker spawns where the old shulker was before it teleported. Shulkers do not have a baby form, and, other than the above criteria, have no duplication cooldown.
When a large sulfur cube dies by any method other than its own explosion, two small sulfur cubes are spawned, which will grow into large sulfur cubes after 20 minutes. They can be fed slimeballs to increase their growing speed.
Issues relating to "Breeding" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Taming is a mechanic that allows the player to domesticate and tame a wild mob .
Mobs that trust the player, do not flee, and do not despawn.
Some mobs are always rideable, without needing to tame them. Riding these mobs usually requires them to be equipped with a saddle .
Each animal can be tamed via different mechanics. Wolves can be tamed by giving the animal bones . Cats and parrots can be tamed by giving the animal its favorite food . Once tamed, these animals follow the player unless told to sit. Tamed wolves fight alongside their master. Tamed wolves and cats can be bred, and they stop hunting animals by themselves. Tamed parrots can ride on the player's shoulder and mimic nearby mob sounds.
Horses , donkeys , mules , llamas , trader llamas , and zombie horses can be tamed by repeatedly mounting the animal until it stops bucking the player off. Feeding them their favorite foods makes taming them easier. Once tamed, these animals can be bred and given equipment. Tamed horses, donkeys and mules can be controlled while riding, but only if equipped with a saddle .
In Bedrock Edition , skeleton horses do not need a saddle to be controlled while riding, while in Java Edition , skeleton horses are tamed by default after the horse trap is triggered.
Upon the death of a pet wolf, cat, parrot, nautilus, or zombie nautilus the message is broadcast to the pet's owner in Java Edition or to all players in the server in Bedrock Edition . In Bedrock Edition , death messages are also produced upon the death of a pet horse, zombie horse, donkey, mule, llama, or trader llama.
Some mobs that cannot be tamed can still trust the player. These mobs will not flee from trusted players, and they do not despawn.
A fox 's trust cannot be gained if it spawns naturally, however baby foxes born after the player breeds two adult foxes will trust the player. When the fox matures into an adult, it will attack some mobs if they attack the player.
An ocelot 's trust can be gained by feeding it raw cod or salmon .
These are the foods and other items that are helpful in taming animals or otherwise gaining their trust. No items are usable for taming skeleton horses.
Issues relating to "Taming" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A raid is an ominous event in which waves of various mobs, mainly illagers , spawn and attack a village . It is triggered when a player with the Raid Omen effect runs out of said effect while inside a village.
When a player with the Bad Omen status effect enters a village (see below for exact definitions), the effect converts into Raid Omen . If the player doesn't drink milk to cancel the Raid Omen before it naturally expires, a raid begins.
Raids can be triggered in the Overworld and the End , and in non- Java Edition games, the Nether . [1]
In Java Edition , raids can be disabled by setting the game rule raids to false .
In Java Edition , any subchunk containing a POI (point of interest: a bed , job site , or bell ) claimed by a villager counts as a village . When a player with Bad Omen enters a 3×3×3 subchunk region around a village, the effect transforms into Raid Omen that disappears after 30 seconds, and then the raid starts if the dimension allows it (currently, only the Nether disallows raids). The raid center is initially the average position of all claimed POIs within 64 block radius of the player when the raid triggers. A bossbar labeled "Raid" appears and begins charging taking 15 seconds to complete; a villager runs to ring the bell and all other villagers within 96 blocks (spherical) from the raid center start panicking until the bar is full. The bossbar is visible to players up to 96 blocks away (spherical) from the raid center. The bar is red and represents the total remaining health of the raid mobs (each segment is 1/10 of the bar). The number of mobs still alive displays when there are fewer than three.
Raid waves spawn some distance away from the raid center and navigate toward it, although they can spawn much closer to the center if the only valid spots are there. A horn sounds at the start of each wave, from the direction of the wave spawn and 13 blocks away from the player. Each subsequent wave is larger, with more mobs, including pillagers , witches , evokers , ravagers , and vindicators . If during the course of the raid, all the POIs inside the subchunk around the raid center are lost (either because the villagers are killed or the blocks themselves are somehow destroyed), the raid center moves to the center of the nearest subchunk that still counts as a village within the surrounding 5×5×5 subchunk region (if there are none, the raid ends in defeat for the player).
In Bedrock Edition , when a player with Bad Omen enters a 64×23×64 region around a village center (technically 1.12 blocks below the center), the effect transforms into Raid Omen that disappears after 30 seconds, and then the raid starts. A bossbar labeled "Raid" appears and begins charging. The bossbar is visible in a 128×88×128 region around the village center (technically 1.12 blocks below the center). The bar is red, and represents the number of remaining mobs. While a wither is already present in the village and a raid starts, the bar is red and black. The number of mobs still alive displays when there are fewer than three. A horn sounds at the start of each wave, and plays again at intervals until the wave has been defeated, or the player has lost. The horn plays from the direction of one of the illagers, which can help players locate it. The bell rings while the bossbar charges. Each subsequent wave is larger, with more mobs, including pillagers , witches , evokers , ravagers , and vindicators .
Illagers, ravagers, and witches not spawned as part of the raid (e.g., from a patrol or spawn eggs ) may join the raid and be counted by the bossbar, provided they are within 96 blocks of the raid center when a wave spawns.
In Java Edition , if an illusioner is spawned using commands, it can also join a raid. Raid captains may also join the raid. Raiders leave the raid if they are more than 112 blocks away from the raid center or haven't seen action in a while.
Illagers have exclusive behavior during raids.
In Java Edition , vindicators in a raid take the initiative to open and close doors to search for villagers . They can sometimes break a wooden door in Normal [verify] or Hard difficulty if they cannot open the door normally. Evokers gain extra movement speed without any effects . This causes evokers to sprint much faster than the player. Evokers exhibit normal attack behavior, but if they do not have a target, they sprint back and forth.
In Bedrock Edition , a vindicator spawned in a raid gains the ability to break doors in Normal difficulty, but does not actively seek doors. They try to break the door only when passing by.
In Java Edition , when a wave captain is killed, other nearby illagers in the raid try to pick up any ominous banners on the ground until a new wave captain is made; the illager that retrieves the banner becomes the new wave captain.
Witches participating in a raid assist other raid members by splashing them with a potion of Regeneration or Healing . Witches are passive toward the villagers and do not throw harmful potions at them, but one of their potions may hit a villager accidentally [2] . In Bedrock Edition , witches attack iron golems in addition to players .
The game attempts to find a valid spawn location for the raiders during the cooldown between waves. For the duration of the 300-tick cooldown, the game makes 8 attempts to find such a location every 5 ticks. This means that there are (300 / 5) * 8 = 480 individual location checks during this period. Once a location is found, the game stops looking for one and waits out the rest of the cooldown unless the chunk it is in becomes non-entity-ticking.
A location is valid only if:
Only the topmost non-air blocks are checked. Light level and player proximity are not taken into account, so it is possible for raiders to spawn on top of players, particularly if the available spawning locations are manipulated.
How far the checked locations are from the raid center depends on the remaining cooldown - the game starts checking far from the raid center, but as the remaining cooldown time decreases, it moves closer, to the point where waves can spawn right next to the raid center if there is nowhere else for them to spawn. In practice, the sheer amount of checks means that such an occurrence requires artificial setups (such as villages built over the ocean or sufficiently higher than all non-village terrain), but if using such setups, then forcing raid waves to spawn in a general area is feasible.
If a valid spawn location has not yet been found when the cooldown ends, 6 last-resort groups of 20 locations each are checked. At this point, the remaining raid cooldown is 0, so these locations are also close to the center. If these checks still fail to find a valid location, the raid ends without being counted as a victory.
The raid ticking logic for determining when to spawn the next group is as follows:
This logic results in a quirk that can cause the next wave to spawn immediately near the raid center when the last raider in the group is removed due to being too far (instead of being killed). This is because the cooldown can be reset to 300 only during step 1, so if the final raider in the set is removed in step 2 (i.e. due to being too far instead of being killed), then the cooldown is still 0, and the number of living raiders in the set are also 0. This fulfills the conditions for step 3, which is run immediately after step 2, spawning the next group without a delay.
When finding locations for this group to spawn, the game jumps to the aforementioned 6 last-resort groups as the cooldown checks do not get a chance to occur. As the raid cooldown is still 0 at this point, the potential locations end up being very close to the raid center.
This generally does not happen without artificial setups, as the raiders attempt to head toward the raid center, but it may happen if the final raider of a wave wanders into a portal.
The raid spawns several waves of raider mobs. If a raid wave begins while an illager or witch is already present inside the village, the wave spawns as normal and the extra mobs join the raid. The exact spawning mechanics are unknown, but the raid can spawn in the 128×32×128 region around the village center. Spawns may occur above or below ground.
Valid spawn blocks in Bedrock Edition are any block except leaves and scaffolding ( inside scaffolding is fine, as usual) with enough space on top. This includes on top of unusual blocks like redstone components, fences and beds. Any light level is fine and player proximity does not matter. If the spawn attempt fails, the wave is immediately declared over and the game moves on to the next wave, victory, or cancels the raid. Once a valid location is found, the horn sounds and all raider mobs for that wave spawn there at once. They then spread out and move toward the village. Once all raiders are killed, there is a 15-second cooldown before the next wave. Raiders that are part of a raid do not despawn naturally and do not contribute to the mob cap, but resume despawning once the raid is over.
Raiders that are part of a raid do not contribute to the mob cap and do not despawn naturally until the raid is over or they get far enough away from the raid center. It is also required that the chunks they are in are reloaded (for example by getting out of render distance and coming back) or they don't disappear even if the player is >128 blocks away.
The number of waves depends on difficulty and the level of Bad Omen/Raid Omen. There are three waves in Easy difficulty, five waves in Normal, and seven waves in Hard. If the player's Raid Omen effect is level II or higher, one additional wave spawns (i.e., four in Easy, six in Normal, and eight in Hard) with the same strength as the final wave. The number of waves is determined at the beginning of the first wave, and changing the difficulty during a started raid does not add or remove any remaining waves. In Hard difficulty, there is also a chance that one additional pillager or vindicator spawns for each wave. Raiders have an increased chance of spawning with enchanted items with higher Raid Omen levels: a 10% chance starting at Raid Omen II and up to a 75% chance at Raid Omen V.
When triggered with Raid Omen I, illager weapons are unenchanted. Raid Omen levels II through V increase the possibility of low-level enchantments. There is a 25% chance that an additional pillager spawns, for a total of four pillagers on waves 2 and 3 and the extra wave. Starting at wave 3, there is a 25% chance that a vindicator spawns each wave, and there is also a 25% chance that an evoker spawns.
There's a 50% chance of spawning either an additional pillager from 3 pillagers per wave, and/or a vindicator on each wave. Witches can also spawn with a 50% chance on waves 3 and 5, and 3 witches always spawn on wave 4. A ravager also spawns at wave 3, but if there is an extra wave, there is a chance of 2 ravagers in the extra wave. Only wave 5 spawns a pillager-ravager jockey.
There are at least 3 pillagers each wave except wave 7 on. However, waves 1, 4, 5, and 6 spawn at least 4 pillagers, but each wave has a 50% chance to spawn additional pillagers. A different minimum number of pillagers spawn from wave 5 onward, and they also have a 50% chance to spawn extra pillagers on each wave. At least 1 vindicator spawns starting at wave 4, but there is a range from as few as 0 to up to 7 across the waves. Wave 4 spawns 3 witches, and from wave 7 on, at least one witch spawns. Waves 3, 5, and 6 also have a 50% chance to spawn witches. There are also illager-ravager jockeys spawning in wave 5, and wave 7 on.
In Bedrock Edition , the number of waves depends on difficulty, regardless of Bad Omen/Raid Omen level without any additional waves. There are 3 waves in Easy difficulty, 5 waves in Normal, and 7 waves in Hard. The number of waves is determined at the beginning of the first wave, and changing the difficulty during a started raid does not add or remove any remaining waves. They spawn with enchanted weapons at level 5 on Easy and at levels 5-19 in other difficulties. There are no attempts to spawn additional mobs in any difficulty aside from vexes spawned by evokers .
All mobs in a raid drop their own regular loot, with some additions.
In Java Edition , villagers give the player extra loot (gifts) after the raid, while in Bedrock Edition , the illagers drop extra loot when killed.
The raid captain drops
Pillagers , vindicators , and evokers drop their regular loot. Bad omen levels above 1 affect enchanted gear drops; see Raid wave composition above.
In addition to regular loot, pillagers and vindicators can drop:
Additionally, depending on difficulty, they have a 65% chance of dropping on Easy and Normal, while 80% chance of dropping on Hard:
If the attacked village no longer registers as a village (i.e., all villagers were killed or all claimed beds, bells, and profession blocks were destroyed), the raid ends, the raid bar displays "Raid - Defeat", and all of the raiders celebrate: The evokers, pillagers, and vindicators raise their hands, the pillagers jump up and down‌ [ JE only ] or [verify] raise their hands‌ [ BE only ] , the witches and ravagers jump up and down, and all of them emit "celebration sounds".
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
The village is victorious when the last raid member in the final wave has been defeated. When this happens, the villagers exit their homes and shoot off fireworks to celebrate, and the Raid bar displays "Raid - Victory".
In some cases a raid ends after a set amount of time, if all left over raiders cannot move.​ [ more information needed ]
If all raiders are killed in the final wave, any player who has killed a raid member in the raid receives the Hero of the Village effect, which gives useful bonuses.
In Java Edition during a raid, villagers emit "sweat particles". At least one villager rushes to the village meeting point and rings the bell to alert other villagers to get inside their houses during the warmup of an upcoming raid wave‌ [ JE only ] .
After successfully defending a village from a raid, the villagers emerge from their houses and celebrate, by setting off firework rockets and cheering, although the villagers do not have celebration sounds like the raiders do.
Villagers give players gifts after the raid in Java Edition . Each villager periodically throws items at the player that are related to their profession.
Vexes summoned by evokers do not count as part of the raid. Killing them has no effect on the raid bossbar, and the raid can end in victory even if there are vexes remaining.
If a raid goes on for 48,000 ticks (40 minutes in real time) the raid bossbar disappears, and in Bedrock Edition a message appears reading “Raid Expired”. Any raiders alive when the raid expires stay until they are killed.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Raid" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Bad Omen is a status effect only obtainable from consuming an ominous bottle . It can transform into Raid Omen in a village to start a raid , or into Trial Omen when seen by a non-ominous trial spawner , to start an ominous trial .
Bad Omen can be obtained by consuming an ominous bottle , obtained from either killing raid captains outside of a raid or from vaults . Being affected by Bad Omen allows players to initiate ominous events .
If a player enters a village with Bad Omen, it transforms into Raid Omen , which triggers a raid after 30 seconds. In Java Edition , if the omen level is above 2, an extra wave of raiders will occur after the final wave. Each level after the second will increase the enchantment level of the incoming raiders' equipment, and the resulting Hero of the Village effect will match the level of the omen, if all raiders have been defeated with villagers still alive. In Bedrock Edition , the level of Bad Omen has no effect on raids, and only affects trial spawners (see below).
If the player has the Bad Omen effect and goes near a non-ominous trial spawner , it transforms into Trial Omen , which converts all nearby trial spawners into ominous trial spawners that are significantly harder to deal with and also have better loot. The omen lasts for 15 minutes multiplied by the level of the Bad Omen. Defeating an ominous trial spawner allows the player to obtain ominous trial keys , which in turn open ominous vaults that can drop loot of significantly higher quality, including one of two trial chamber exclusive smithing templates and the heavy core needed to craft the mace .
Bad Omen is a status effect and can be removed through all conventional methods, such as drinking milk or dying.
The player can still receive the Bad Omen effect in Peaceful difficulty via vaults (all pillager captains despawn in Peaceful), but does not transform into Raid Omen if in a village.
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Bad Omen" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Hero of the Village is a player -exclusive status effect obtained by defeating a raid and lasts 40 minutes, during which players receive discounts from villager trades , and in Java Edition , gifts from villagers.
In Java Edition the effect's level will be that of the defeated raid; in Bedrock Edition there is only one level.
Players receive discounts from all villagers , including ones from villages other than the one the raid was defeated in. The wandering trader 's trades are only affected in Bedrock Edition .
Hero of the Village is a status effect and can be removed through all conventional methods, such as drinking milk or dying.
In Bedrock Edition , upon the effect being given a short animation of the effect icon appearing on the screen plays, similar to a totem of undying .
Hero of the Village reduces the price of all villagers by 30% and 6.25% per additional level, both being of to the initial price, giving 55% at level V. This price reduction is rounded down to whole items, but is at least 1 unless the price is already 1.
Nothing besides Hero of the Village is affecting the price, the formula for it can be written as:
Final Price = min ⁡ ( max ⁡ ( p − max ⁡ ( 1 , ⌊ p ⋅ ( 0.3 ⋅ sgn ⁡ ( h ) + 0.0625 ⋅ ( h − 1 ) ) ⌋ ) , 1 ) , Stack Size )
where p is the initial price and h is the Hero of the Village level.
For example, level III would give a 42.5% discount. For a trade costing 14 emeralds , the discount would be 5 emeralds, for a final price of 9.
Upon obtaining the effect, villagers randomly throw items from a certain pool at the player as rewards, listed below. In order for a player to have gifts thrown to them, they must have Hero of the Village, the villager must be able to see them, and they must be within 5 blocks of the villager. After throwing a gift, a villager enters a cooldown lasting between 30 seconds and 5min 30 sec. Villagers give gifts only while idle, working, or meeting at the town center (bell). They do not give gifts during the night when they should be sleeping.
If / gamerule mob_griefing is set to true , villagers might pick up seeds and bread that were thrown as gifts if a player does not get to them first.
Even using the / effect command can give the player the Hero of the Village effect and cause the villagers to decrease prices, give gifts, and increase the player's popularity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Hero of the Village" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An effect (also known as a mob effect or status effect ) is a condition that affects an entity , either negatively, positively, or neutrally. Effects usually can be inflicted in various ways throughout the game, including potions , some food items, being shot by certain arrows, being in the range of active beacons and conduits , and being attacked by certain mobs .
The / effect command allows players to inflict effects upon themselves and other entities with different levels of these effects.
Entities inflicted by an effect experience various changes either instantly or for a duration of time. For most effects, higher levels increase the potency of the effect . As long as the effect is active, effect-dependent particles emanate from the position of the inflicted entity. Effects provided by beacons and conduits emit semitransparent particles and are known as "ambient".
Any number of different effects (including opposing effects such as Strength and Weakness ) can be simultaneously active on an entity, but it is not possible to compound the same effect multiple times, even if they are of different levels. Typically, when applying an effect already active on the player, higher levels overwrite lower levels, and higher durations overwrite lower durations of the same level. However, in Java Edition , when a stronger version of an effect is applied to an entity (except for the player) that already has a weaker version of the same effect, the weaker effect remains but is hidden. If the weaker effect has a longer duration, the weaker effect will return after the more potent one expires. In Bedrock Edition , when a stronger effect overrides a weaker effect, the weaker effect will be gone and will not return. [1]
In Java Edition , a player can open their inventory to see any current effects afflicted upon them, as well as the levels and duration of each. In Bedrock Edition , effects are displayed in a separate "mob effects" screen, which can be opened by pressing Z on a keyboard, pressing / / / / / / / on a controller, or tapping the effect icon when using touch controls.
A player can remove all of their effects either by dying , drinking a milk bucket (which can be obtained by using a bucket on a cow , mooshroom , or goat ), or being saved from death by a totem of undying (which can be obtained by killing an evoker in a woodland mansion ). Additionally, Poison can also be removed by drinking a honey bottle .
Any damage dealt by effects is classified as magic damage and completely bypasses armor , making it effective at harming highly armored targets; however, the Protection enchantment still reduces the damage taken from effects.
In Java Edition , positive effects have blue text in potion information and are displayed on the upper row of effects in the HUD , while negative effects have red potion text and are displayed in the bottom row. Neutral effects have the blue potion text and are listed with the negative effects in the bottom row in the heads up display. If the effect is a beacon effect, then it also has a blue outline. In Bedrock Edition , negative effect names in potion and tipped arrow tooltips are shown in red; positive and neutral effect names in these contexts, and all effect names in the mob effects screen, are shown in white.
Each effect has an associated color, used to represent it in particles, potions , and tipped arrows . If a potion or tipped arrow stores multiple effects (such as potion/arrow of the Turtle Master, or a custom potion created via commands in Java Edition ), the colors of each effect are blended together. Entities affected by multiple effects, however, emit particles for each active effect separately, without blending the colors.
An effect's potency (also known as its level ) is how strong or effective it is. Some effects do not get stronger as their potency increases, but most do. All effects have a minimum potency of 1 and a maximum potency of 256, which is also represented as an amplifier of 0 up to 255 in the / effect command, entity NBT data and predicates .
The potency of an effect is represented using Roman numerals in places such as the inventory screen in Java Edition , the mob effects screen in Bedrock Edition , and potion or tipped arrow tooltips. However, if the potency is greater than 5 (V) then potion.potency.<potency> (as an Arabic numeral) is shown in item tooltips, and if the potency is greater than 10 (X) then no potency is shown in the inventory or mob effects screen. [verify]
It is not possible to apply the same effect multiple times, even if they are of different levels. When applying an effect already active on the player, higher levels overwrite lower levels, and higher durations overwrite lower durations of the same level.
In Java Edition , when a stronger version of an effect is applied to an entity that already has a weaker version of the same effect, the weaker effect remains, but is hidden. The weaker effect returns after the stronger effect expires, if the weaker effect has a longer duration. In Bedrock Edition , when a stronger effect overrides a weaker effect, the weaker effect is deleted and does not return.
Effects that scale with potency
Effects can only be applied to living entities . Witches have natural resistance against damage from effects, taking 85% less damage from effects in Java Edition and 95% less damage in Bedrock Edition . Additionally, certain entities are completely immune to some or all effects:
Some effects are opposite to other effects, the table below show each effect that is the opposite to another effect.
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
These effects exist only in 15w14a :
These effects exist only in 23w13a_or_b :
These effects exist only in 24w14potato :
These effects exist only in 25w14craftmine :
Issues relating to "Effect" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Food refers to consumable items that, when eaten, restore hunger and saturation points, sometimes giving status effects .
Eating is the process of consuming food items . Eating a food item requires holding use , and takes an amount of time dependent on the food's consumption time value.
Eating (or drinking) a consumable takes 32 game ticks (1.6 seconds), with exceptions: Dried kelp takes half the time (16 game ticks (0.8 seconds)), and honey bottles take 25% longer (40 game ticks (2 seconds)). Cake is a block and thus cannot be eaten in the hand, requiring the player to place it down and then use it.
In Survival , food cannot be eaten while already at full hunger, with the exception of chorus fruit , golden apples , enchanted golden apples , honey bottles , and suspicious stew . This also applies to potions , water bottles , and milk buckets . In Creative mode and Peaceful difficulty ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , any food can be consumed at any time.
Hunger is a value that determines healing , whether or not the player can sprint , and whether or not the player is starving. Hunger is restored by eating food items. Hunger is lost by healing or by performing energy-intensive actions that exhaust the player, and is the second value to be consumed by it, after saturation .
The player's current hunger value is represented by the hunger bar ( ), which displays above the hotbar on the right side, opposite of the health bar . Each hunger point is represented by half a hunger icon ( ), and the maximum hunger value is 20. Hunger points can also be restored by applying the Saturation status effect. The hunger value does not drain on Peaceful difficulty, and always remains at the maximum value of 20.
If the hunger value is at 18 ( ) or above, or the saturation value is non-zero, the player's health naturally regenerates every 4 seconds (80 ticks). Saturation is used first, and then once fully drained, hunger is used instead. When the hunger value drops to 17 ( ) or below, natural regeneration stops.
If the hunger value is at 6 ( ) or below, the player loses the ability to sprint until the hunger value exceeds 7 .
If the hunger value reaches 0 ( ), the player begins to lose health due to starvation. Starvation damages the player by 1 HP every 4 seconds (80 ticks). Starvation damage ignores armor and armor toughness , the Protection enchantment, and the Resistance effect. [2] Starvation damage stops taking effect when reaching certain health thresholds on certain difficulties .
Saturation is a value that determines healing, as well as the time until hunger begins to deplete. Saturation is lost by healing or performing energy-intensive actions that exhaust the player, and is the first value to be consumed by it, before hunger .
The player's current saturation value is not visually displayed as a bar, unlike the hunger value. Instead, when saturation reaches zero, the hunger bar starts to shake or jitter periodically.
Saturation boost [3] , also known as saturation healing, is a mechanic exclusive to Java Edition that regenerates health when the player's hunger bar is full ( ). Saturation boost heals 1 HP by consuming 1.5 ( ) saturation, and activates every 0.5 seconds (10 ticks) when at full hunger. While the saturation mechanic as a whole is in both Bedrock Edition and Java Edition , saturation boost is only in Java Edition .
Exhaustion is incurred from doing certain energy-intensive actions, and certain actions exhaust the player more than others. Exhaustion first reduces saturation, and then reduces hunger.
Once the exhaustion level reaches 4.0, it resets to 0.0 and reduces the saturation by 1 ( ) if there is any saturation remaining. If the saturation is 0, it reduces the hunger by 1 ( ) instead.
Certain foods provide additional effects when eaten, both helpful and harmful. This can come in the form of gaining status effects , clearing status effects, or teleportation.
0:11 Blindness ( Azure Bluet / Open Eyeblossom )‌ [ Java Edition only ] 0:07 Blindness ( Azure Bluet / Open Eyeblossom )‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
0.35s Saturation ( Blue Orchid / Dandelion / Golden Dandelion )‌ [ Java Edition only ] 0.3s Saturation ( Blue Orchid / Dandelion / Golden Dandelion )‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
0:07 Nausea ( Closed Eyeblossom )
0:05 Jump Boost ( Cornflower )
0:11 Poison ( Lily of the Valley )
0:07 Regeneration ( Oxeye Daisy )
0:05 Night Vision ( Poppy / Torchflower )
0:07 Weakness ( Red Tulip / Orange Tulip / Pink Tulip / White Tulip )
0:07 Wither ( Wither Rose )
The Hunger effect removes 1 ( ) hunger or 1 ( ) saturation point every 40 level seconds, and turns the hunger bar to a green color ( ). It is inflicted by being attacked by a husk , or by eating pufferfish , rotten flesh , or raw chicken .
The Saturation effect replenishes 1 ( ) hunger point and 2 ( ) saturation points every 0.05 seconds (1 tick)‌ [ Java Edition only ] [4] per level. It is applied exclusively through suspicious stew crafted with a blue orchid or dandelion .
The following items cannot be eaten on their own. Instead, they are used to craft consumable food items.
Food uses four variables, the values of which are stored in the player.dat format . Variables can be queried in-game with the following command: / data get entity <player's name> <variable> ‌ [ Java Edition only ] .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Food" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The Overworld is the first and primary dimension in which a Minecraft world begins. When a player creates a world, they will initially spawn in this dimension. In the Overworld, an abundance of biomes , blocks , and mobs can be found.
The Overworld is the only dimension created when the player creates a new world. The other dimensions ( The Nether and The End ) are not created until a player enters the corresponding dimension for the first time, usually using a nether portal or end portal .
A new world in Minecraft is generated through the use of a randomly generated seed, which is an integer used as a starting point for the world generation formula. The player can specify a seed or allow the game to generate one randomly.
The world seed controls the generation of all three dimensions, and it always generates the same terrain, structures, and features every time. Structure and feature placement may vary between editions.
The Overworld is an incredibly complex environment with a wide variety of features, more so than any other dimensions.
Unique to the Overworld are graphics in the sky , including clouds , the sun , moon , stars , and dynamic atmospherics .
The Overworld is divided into 54 biomes of various types. A biome's type determines the basic characteristics of the terrain within it, such as the blocks composing the surface or the plants that thrive in it. The biome type also determines which mobs can spawn within it and affects how environmental behaviors such as weather are expressed within it. Each biome also has various graphical effects, such as plant , water , or atmospheric tints.
The Overworld is composed of several naturally generated buildings, called generated structures , whose arrangement depends on the biome. Structures vary in size and location, often containing loot chests , unique mobs , or other types of loot .
Along with generated structures, the Overworld is filled with features and terrain features . These include rather common blocks typical for a biome, such as trees , or unique terrain formations like canyons .
A notable terrain feature in the Overworld is the ocean . Below Y=63, most air is replaced by water , which often occurs in ocean and river biomes, forming a sea level. Water and lava are also generated as part of springs or underwater caves .
The Overworld is the only dimension with a daylight cycle and the only one where the environment reflects the passage of time. In contrast to time zones in the real world, Overworld time is universal; it is always the same time for every player in the dimension regardless of how far apart they might be, even in an "infinite" world.
During the daytime, the sun acts as a powerful light source, with a light level of 15, the maximum. Sunlight is strong enough to grow plants and affect the way mobs spawn, among other interesting effects. During the nighttime, the moon is the only natural light source. However, moonlight is comparatively dim; the light level falls to a minimum of 4, allowing hostile mobs to spawn. Other than during thunderstorms , night time is the only time players may sleep in a bed to skip the night and set the respawn point .
The daylight cycle can effectively be measured using a clock , which allows players to determine the approximate Minecraft time anywhere in the Overworld. Time can also be changed or stopped with the use of the / time command.
The sun rises in the east and sets in the west, just as it does in the real world, though the sun will always be directly overhead at noon. Observing its motion is a simple method of telling direction without a compass .
The weather cycle is unique to the Overworld. The environment can change randomly from the standard clear weather to global precipitation, which includes rain , or snowfall in colder biomes and at higher altitudes. During precipitation, rain or snow particles fall down from the sky, which is darkened along with denser fog. There are also dry biomes without visible precipitation.
Rainfall and snowfall have great effects on gameplay, by decreasing the sky light level, extinguishing burning entities , or piling up snow . Precipitation has a small chance to worsen into thunderstorms , which is dark enough to allow hostile mobs to spawn, and can randomly generate lightning bolts .
The Overworld is home to the vast majority of Minecraft 's mobs . Mobs vary greatly in behavior and the level of danger they present to the player. Different mobs spawn at different times and places depending on the light level and the biome, among many other factors. On occasion, a mob can move between the Overworld and another dimension, such as The Nether , by using a portal , but this is uncommon. Boss mobs like the ender dragon and the wither cannot enter portals.
As with all other dimensions in the game, the Overworld can generate infinitely. However, there are some limitations, as detailed below. Like the other dimensions, it is divided into 16×384×16 block sections called chunks .
The Overworld encompasses a three-dimensional volume that extends vertically from the void up to the build limit (Y=-64 to Y=320), and horizontally for a virtually infinite distance in each direction. This volume is filled with blocks ; air, terrain, and structures placed by the world generation.
While the world is virtually infinite in horizontal direction, the number of blocks a player may physically reach is limited at extreme distances.
In Java Edition , the map contains a world border located by default at X/Z coordinates ±29,999,984. Most entities are unable to pass the border, except by teleporting . Players who breach the border receive constant damage unless they are in Creative or Spectator mode. The player can teleport past the world border and continue as far as X/Z ±29,999,999, where there is an invisible wall.
In Bedrock Edition , worlds have no fixed horizontal limits, but the normal game behavior begins to break down at extreme distances, caused by distance effects . This severely impacts gameplay after about 8 million blocks.
"Naturally generated" includes blocks that are created through the world seed .
"Naturally created" means a combination of events that cause a new block to be placed by natural causes, not the player. Some of these blocks may also be created as part of world generation.
These blocks are created only with the "Generate Structures" option enabled.
In Java Edition , information on the Overworld is stored in the region folder of the .minecraft /saves/worldname directory, with "worldname" being the name of the player's world.
Deleting the region folder resets the Overworld so that all player-made changes and buildings in that dimension are undone.
Some achievements and advancements are obtained only in the Overworld, as their conditions cannot be replicated in the Nether or the End at all.
Issues relating to "Overworld" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The Nether is a dangerous, volcanic, fungal dimension that resembles a hellish underworld. It contains fire that cannot be extinguished; vast oceans of lava ; Nether fungi and normal mushrooms in place of plants; many unique mobs , mostly hostile in nature; and exclusive structures , resources, and biomes .
To access the Nether, the player must construct a Nether portal in the Overworld (portals created in the End do not activate). To create the portal, the player must first build a rectangular obsidian frame, ranging in size from a minimum of 4 blocks × 5 blocks to a maximum of 23 blocks × 23 blocks. Once the frame is completed, it can then be activated by placing fire within the frame, using flint and steel , fire charge , dispensers , or any material that is capable of igniting fire.
The portal allows all entities (with the exception of the wither and the ender dragon ) to be transported to a corresponding portal in the Nether. In Survival , the player must stand in a Nether portal for 4 seconds to enter the Nether. The player can step out of a portal before it completes its animation to abort the teleport. The portal plays a sound effect while the player is inside it. If there is no corresponding portal, a new 4×5 portal is created. The portal can be destroyed by breaking the obsidian frame, by a nearby explosion, or by placing water in the Overworld or lava into it with a bucket or dispenser . Any of the blocks in the corners can be destroyed without destroying the portal.
The Nether could generate in the former Old ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] world type, (with the same 256×256 borders as the Overworld) though Nether portals could not be created without using commands. Nether portals created in the Nether could spawn the player outside of the world barrier.
If cheats are enabled, players can also teleport to the Nether without using a Nether portal: the syntax is / execute in the_nether in Java Edition , and / execute in nether in Bedrock Edition .
Bedrock forms a rough 5 layer ceiling on top of the nether (starting at y-level 123 and ending at y-level 127) restricting the player from leaving the Nether. Just like in the Overworld , the player is protected from falling off the world by 5 bottom layers of bedrock (starting at y level 4 and ending at y-level 0) in a rough pattern. This makes the Nether 128 blocks high unlike the Overworld's 384. As with the vast Overworld and End dimensions of the Java and Bedrock Editions, the Nether is equally horizontally vast to the world border .
In Java Edition , build limit in the Nether is 256 blocks: if the player manages to get on top of the bedrock roof , they can build additional 128 blocks upward on it. In Bedrock Edition , the build limit in the Nether is 128 blocks, despite it being 256 in the End, and 320 in the Overworld.
The Nether has no daylight cycle and no weather . Natural sources of light include fire , lava , portals , shroomlights and glowstone . Even with a light level of 0, the Nether has a dim ambient light (roughly equivalent to light level 8 in the Overworld). Light otherwise functions exactly the same as it does in the Overworld and the End. The Nether is the only dimension without directional lighting in Vibrant Visuals , so there are no dynamic shadows.
The majority of "flora" in the Nether is fungus-based as opposed to plants. The Nether "grass" consists of specialized Nether mycelium (known as " nylium "). The Nether features its own unique fungi (including Nether wart), as well as equivalent huge fungi that serve as trees . The stems of the huge fungi function as logs . Also present are a number of native vines and roots.
Most creatures found in the Nether are hostile and potentially dangerous; the only Nether-exclusive mobs that are fully passive are striders .
Locations in the Nether correlate to Overworld coordinates , but horizontal Overworld distances are scaled down by a ratio of 8:1 for travel in the Nether. Therefore, traveling one block in the Nether means traveling eight blocks in the Overworld. For example, in a perfect scenario, a player who enters a portal in the Overworld at X=0, Z=0 and travels in the Nether to X=1000, Z=1000 returns to the Overworld at X=8000, Z=8000. This makes portals a useful tool for traveling long distances in the Overworld. This does not allow one to pass the Overworld World border.
Most items and blocks in the Nether function the same as they do in the Overworld, with a few notable exceptions:
The Nether features unique cave-like terrain with no sky. Lava and fire are common hazards everywhere in the Nether. Areas distant from the player are shrouded in fog of red or blue, depending on the biome, and some biomes are filled with particles in the air. The shape of the terrain in the Nether is independent of the biome distribution; instead, the biomes alter the surface material and add terrain features to the netherrack terrain.
The Nether is divided into several biomes just like the Overworld, each featuring unique terrain, mobs, structures, ambience , etc. There are five biomes in the Nether:
The Nether wastes is the most common biome in the Nether. The terrain mainly consists of netherrack , with glowstone clusters growing and lava leaking from the ceiling, and gravel and soul sand lining its shores. Most of the Nether mobs can spawn here, including ghasts , zombified piglins , magma cubes , striders , piglins , and the occasional enderman .
The soul sand valley mainly consists of soul sand , basalt and soul soil . Notable features of the biome are exposed nether fossils in various shapes and sizes, large amounts of lava , blue fog, large spires made of basalt , soul fire , and the occasional nether fortress or bastion remnant . Ghasts and skeletons are common in this biome while endermen are rare. Striders can spawn here as well. This is the only biome in the Nether where dried ghasts generate naturally.
The crimson forest consists of many huge crimson fungi , which act as the "trees" of this biome. The huge fungi often generate with weeping vines hanging from them, and shroomlights which light up the landscape. The floor is mostly covered with crimson nylium , with occasional patches of bare netherrack or nether wart blocks . Crimson roots , crimson fungus , and occasionally warped fungus grow on the ground. Small patches of nether wart blocks and weeping vines can also be found growing on the ceiling.
Hoglins , piglins , zombified piglins , and striders can spawn in this biome.
The warped forest consists of many huge warped fungi , which act as the "trees" of this biome. The huge fungi often generate with shroomlights , which illuminate the landscape. Twisting vines grow throughout the biome in patches. The floor is mostly covered with warped nylium , with occasional patches of bare netherrack or warped wart blocks . Warped roots , warped fungus , nether sprouts , and occasionally crimson fungus grow on the ground.
Endermen and striders are the only mobs that spawn in this biome. The biome emits out a magenta-purple fog upon entry, and a lack of music is present.
A grey biome in colour, the basalt deltas are said to be the remnant of ancient volcanic eruptions. The ground consists of basalt and blackstone blocks, with small patches of netherrack and pools of lava . The shape of the terrain is chaotic and uneven, making it somewhat difficult to traverse and build on. Unlike the other biomes in the Nether, bastion remnants do not generate in basalt deltas. When this biome borders a lava ocean, clusters of basalt form near the coast. Fog is colored light-gray and particles of dust can be seen falling from the ceiling upon entry.
Magma cubes have a high spawn rate in this biome, making the basalt deltas the best place to farm magma cream , and ghasts are also common. This biome also contains a much higher abundance of blackstone compared to other Nether biomes.
The Nether contains a variety of unique generated structures. Though equally vast, it contains far fewer types of generated structures than there are in the Overworld.
There are 4 generated structures in the Nether:
This structure is the only place where blazes and wither skeletons spawn, making fortresses the gateway to both bosses in the game: the ender dragon and the wither . Fortresses also contain blaze monster spawners , as well as small nether wart farms. Nether fortresses can be found in all Nether biomes.
These structures can be found in any Overworld and Nether biome.
The Nether has a lot of different terrain features that generate within the biomes of the Nether.
There are currently 5 terrain features in The Nether:
Striders can be found striding across these seas.
The Nether is home to numerous of mobs , most of which are unique to the dimension and immune to fire and lava . Skeletons , endermen , and chickens (as chicken jockeys with baby zombified piglins on them‌ [ Java Edition only ] ) are the only Overworld mobs that naturally spawn in the Nether.
Other Overworld mobs do not naturally spawn in the Nether but can be brought in through portals (except for the wither and ender dragon ).
There are currently 12 in Java Edition , or 11 in Bedrock Edition , mobs that spawn in this dimension, with 3 additional associated mobs:
Associated: The following mobs are associated with the Nether, but do not spawn naturally without player interaction. [2] [3]
Naturally generated blocks includes those that are created through the world seed.
Naturally created blocks are created through a combination of events that lead these blocks to be placed by natural causes, not by the player.
These blocks are only generated as part of Nether fortresses , Nether fossils , bastion remnants and ruined portals , when the " generated structures " option is on.
In Java Edition , the Nether is stored in .minecraft /saves/ worldname /dimensions/minecraft/the_nether . Deleting this folder resets the Nether, so that all player-made changes and buildings in that dimension are undone.
In Bedrock Edition , the com.mojang /minecraftWorlds/ world ID /db folder contains several collections of chunks. Some of these files are used for the Nether, but it is impossible to tell which ones simply by reading the file name.
There is a tab dedicated to the Nether in the advancement system, all involving visiting the Nether in some way in order to advance.
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "The Nether" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The End is a dark, void-like, and space-like dimension consisting of separate islands in the void , made out of End stone . It is inhabited by endermen and shulkers . The ender dragon also spawns when the player first arrives. The End is generally considered the final goal of Minecraft , and is usually the last dimension a player will travel to. The ender dragon is considered the final boss, and it is necessary to defeat it to return to the Overworld without dying , and to read the End Poem .
To access the End, the player must go through the process of finding a stronghold using eyes of ender , finding the portal room, and activating the End portal in the End portal room. The room consists of a 5×5 square of End portal frames , with the corners cut out, making a total of 12. The portal hangs over a lava pool, with a staircase leading up to it. A silverfish spawner sits on top of the staircase.
The player can activate the portal by filling the 12 End portal frames each with an eye of ender. Each frame block has a 10% chance of generating with an eye in it. Once all the eyes of ender are placed, the portal activates and emits a loud noise audible from anywhere in the world. As soon as it is activated, the portal destroys all blocks in the central 3×3 square, including bedrock or another portal frame, and replaces them with the End portal blocks that can teleport an entity into the End dimension. Upon jumping into the portal, the player immediately arrives in the End (X: 100, Z: 0), along with any prior entities that may have teleported.
If cheats are enabled, players can also teleport to the End without using an End portal: the command / execute in the_end allows the player to select their teleportation destination in the End directly.
The End consists of one large island surrounded at a distance by many smaller islands, all mainly composed of End stone . There is a gap between the central island and the outer islands of about 1000 blocks with nothing but the void .
The starless "sky" and the void of the End are both composed of a blank, static pattern (see End sky ), colored slightly purple with Vibrant Visuals. The daylight cycle is absent in the End, similar to the Nether , being replaced by a constant dim light .
The sky periodically flashes and emits purple light while also producing sounds. The purple light acts as sky light.
The weather cycle does not exist in the End, meaning there is no rain , snowfall , or thunderstorms .
Most items and blocks function in the End exactly as they do in the Overworld , with a few notable exceptions:
There are 5 biomes that make up the End in Java Edition . Beds and respawn anchors still explode if the biome is set in the Overworld. In Bedrock Edition , all End biomes are classified as a single biome, which is called the_end .
There are currently 9 structures and generated features in The End:
All players begin their exploration of the End with the main island. Unlike Nether portals , entering the End portal instantly teleports the player to the End, giving no time to back out. Upon arrival in the End, the player is placed on a 5×5×1 obsidian platform with three layers of air blocks above it. If there are any blocks in a three-block space above the platform, they are destroyed when a player enters an End portal. The platform can generate on the island, within it, or at a short distance from it, close enough to throw an ender pearl to reach the island. It always generates centered on the coordinates (100, 49, 0) with the player facing west.
Once the player enters the End, the only way back (without prior setup) is to die or defeat the ender dragon . The dragon spawns naturally and flies around above ten end spikes of obsidian arranged in a circle with a radius of 42 blocks around the central exit portal , which activates when the dragon is killed. On top of each tower lies an End crystal . Two of the crystals are protected by cages of iron bars . These crystals heal the dragon but can be destroyed by hitting them. Destroying the crystal while the dragon is healing damages the dragon.
Once defeated, the dragon goes to the exit portal at (0, 64, 0), rises into the sky, and slowly disintegrates, with bright beams of light flashing from its body. It then explodes, drops 12,000 (first dragon) or 500 (all subsequent dragons) experience orbs, activates the exit portal, and generates one End gateway (first 20 dragons only). This gives the player access to the End's outer islands. Atop the exit portal lie four torches and the dragon egg . After the dragon is killed, it can be respawned an unlimited number of times by placing four End crystals on the sides of the exit portal. Respawning the ender dragon regenerates any obsidian pillar blocks previously mined by the player, as well as the torches on the exit portal. However, the dragon egg does not regenerate when a respawned ender dragon is killed.
Once the player enters the exit portal, the " End Poem " is displayed, thereby "completing" the game. The player then respawns wherever the spawn point is set in the Overworld or in the Nether and may return to the End through the same portal (or a different portal from another stronghold); the End remains in the same state as the player left it. The obsidian platform is regenerated each time a player enters the End, meaning that any blocks or block entities placed in the 5×5×4 space on or above the platform are destroyed and replaced with obsidian and air blocks.
The End's outer islands are more diverse than the main island. When a player enters one of the End gateways that generate after killing the dragon, they are instantly teleported over the ~1000 block void to the outer islands. These gateway portals are easiest to enter through the use of ender pearls , due to the one block tall gap between the bedrock blocks, but can also be entered by placing water and swimming through, using a trapdoor or piston to force the player to crawl, or with skilled use of a pair of elytra .
The outer islands vary in size. There are occasional "mini islands" in the gaps between the larger ones, generally with nothing on them (occasionally they generate End gateways that return the player to the obsidian platform). The larger islands can also vary in size but are generally a hundred to several hundred blocks wide. The gaps between these islands are generally short enough that players can travel between them via ender pearls .
These outer islands generate up to the world boundary . Some are topped with a forest of chorus trees that may be harvested for its chorus fruit , and perhaps chorus flowers , to grow it in the Overworld. The player may find End cities (which may generate ships with them) on these islands, which hold exclusive loot. Elytra and the dragon head can only be found on the End ships.
In Java Edition , due to a bug, [1] the outer End islands generate in multiple concentric rings. The first ring ends at ±370,720 blocks laterally from (0, 0), cutting off terrain generation in a donut shape. It continues empty, but the second ring starts at ±524,288 blocks, then disappears again at ±642,112 blocks and comes back at ±741,455 blocks. It continues like this all the way until the world boundary, getting closer and closer. This is a hard limit caused by an arithmetic overflow when calculating the squared distance from the origin. Outer End islands can spawn at a set of coordinates (X,Z) if and only if they satisfy both sin ⁡ ( X 2 + Z 2 43748131634 ) and X 2 + Z 2 − 1 , 000 , 000 are greater than zero. Interestingly, each of the rings supporting outer island generation has the same area. The player can only access the first to 6,548th rings due to the world boundary .
The End is home to three naturally spawning mobs , with one additional related mob:
Unlike other dimensions, no passive mobs spawn naturally in the End.
Naturally generated includes blocks that are created through the world seed and always generate no matter what.
These blocks are created through a combination of events that lead these blocks to be placed by natural causes such as summoning the ender dragon , not by the player .
These blocks and entities are only generated as part of End cities , when the "generated structures"‌ [ Java Edition only ] option is on.
In Java Edition , the End is stored in .minecraft /saves/ worldname /dimensions/minecraft/the_end . Deleting this folder resets the End, so that all player-made changes and buildings in that dimension are undone.
In Bedrock Edition , the com.mojang /minecraftWorlds/ world ID /db folder contains several collections of chunks. Some of these files are used for the End, but it is impossible to tell which ones simply by reading the file name.
Issues relating to "The End" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The plains are common grassland biomes in the Overworld with wide, open terrain and many flowers .
Plains biomes are common and expansive, and commonly border sunflower plains , forests , and flower forests . Plains biomes also generate at colder and warmer temperature ranges, where they border savannas , deserts , and badlands , or taigas and snowy plains , respectively. They are the second most common Overworld biome, after forests.
Plains generate at any type of elevation; in flatland with occasional hills and cliffs next to swamps , mangrove swamps , and all windswept biomes; or in higher inland terrain with fjords , plateaus, and mountains . Common mountain biomes near plains include cherry groves , meadows , and snowy slopes . When it generates at the lukewarm biome temperature range, stony peaks generate instead of jagged peaks / frozen peaks .
Plains are grassy with few terrain features, creating a wide, open view. Many of the grass blocks are covered in short grass or tall grass , with many different flowers . Oak trees generate sometimes; 1 ⁄ 3 are large, while 1 ⁄ 20 have bees and bee nests rarely in the plains.
Some occasional large patches of flowers grow various colors of tulips . Along with flower forests , plains are the only places where tulips generate. Oxeye daisies , cornflowers , dandelions , poppies and azure bluets , sporadically generate within the plains. Bushes also generate in small patches of plain fields.
Villages generate in plains, using oak planks and logs . Pillager outposts can generate here as well.
Horses and donkeys spawn in plains biomes, as well as hostile zombie horses during the nighttime. Common temperate animal variants also spawn.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in plains:
In Creative mode, the following tracks can play:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Plains" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The forest is a lush biome densely wooded with oak and birch trees. Woods wolves spawn here. The forest is the most common surface biome in Minecraft , making up about 12% of the Overworld's area.
Forest biomes generate in temperate, warm, and cold zones with a medium humidity. In mountainous jungles , forests generate more commonly as slope or plateau biomes bordering stony peaks .
This means that forests can border almost any other biome. Most commonly, they border plains and birch forests .
Forests feature dense trees compared to other biomes. Lilies of the valley , rose bushes , peonies and lilacs generate in this biome. Bushes generate here in small patches, and leaf litter is scattered on the ground underneath trees.
Wolves spawn commonly in forest and use their woods variant. Bees from bee nests on trees are found as well.
Abandoned camps sometimes generate in forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the forest:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Forest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A birch forest is a lush biome filled with birch trees and wildflowers that usually generates near other woodland biomes.
Birch forest biomes are slightly rarer than regular forest biomes. They generate in medium temperature, between regular forests and dark forests in terms of humidity. They can also border jungles and taigas , as well as oceans or temperate mountains .
Regular birch forests are most commonly separated from old growth birch forests by rivers. Lush caves may generate under birch forests because of its slightly high humidity, unless the birch forest is far from the ocean.
Birch forests feature birch trees across the landscape that generate as densely as trees in regular forests. Unlike regular forest biomes, oak trees and wolves do not spawn here.
Between the birches, scattered bushes , rose bushes , lilacs , peonies , and lilies of the valley can be found, while wildflowers commonly cover the ground in patches. Bee nests housing 2–3 bees spawn on 0.2%‌ [ JE only ] or 0.035%‌ [ BE only ] of birches.
Abandoned camps sometimes generate in birch forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the birch forest:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Birch Forest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A dark forest or roofed forest is a forested biome with dense leaf canopies that block sunlight, allowing hostile mobs to spawn and hide from the sun during daytime. Dark forests are one of the two biomes that woodland mansions can generate in.
Dark forests generate in areas with medium temperature and very high humidity values and are usually bordered by birch forests , but they can also border jungles and bamboo jungles . Dark forests border old growth taigas but not regular taigas .
They can generate at any type of terrain, near swamps and windswept biomes, in flatland, bordering oceans with beaches or cliffs, near plateaus and fjords, or high mountain valleys. Plateaus and mountain slopes in dark forests are replaced by the pale garden variant.
Dark forests are one of the only biomes that can never border biomes with villages .
Due to their very high humidity value, dark forests almost always have lush caves generate below them, unless they generate very far inland.
Dark forests feature a much higher density of trees compared to other forest biomes, which oftentimes blocks direct view of the sky entirely. Oak , dark oak , and sometimes birch trees generate in these biomes, with leaf litter covering the ground. Bee nests are not generated with trees. Additionally, both types of huge mushrooms generate among the trees, though the red variants are more common. Unlike regular forests, wolves do not spawn in dark forests.
Unique to dark forests are woodland mansions , enormous dungeon-like structures that rarely generate within the trees. Woodland mansions are home to the dangerous evoker and vindicator mobs and are one of the only places where said mobs spawn. Mansions contain many rooms and valuable loot.
The dark forest has a unique darker sky color and atmospheric effects with Vibrant Visuals . Sunlight is also less bright, and volumetric fog is slightly denser with stronger light shafts.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the dark forest:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dark Forest" or "Roofed Forest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The taiga is a humid and cold biome comprising a grassland forested with small and large ferns, pale aquamarine-green grass, spruce and pine trees. Foxes and wolves commonly spawn here.
Taigas generate in the moderately high humidity zones of cold temperature areas, as well as the highest humidity zones of frozen areas. They commonly border old growth taigas , forests , and snowy taigas , and less frequently birch forests . In cold temperature areas, they can generate in any type of terrain; flatlands near shattered windswept forests and swamps , rolling slopes and plateaus, or mountains with groves on the slopes.
In the frozen temperature areas, however, they only generate in medium to high erosion as vast groves replace them in mountainous terrain. They can sometimes still generate replacing rivers in the highest mountain peaks. When generated in frozen temperature areas, they create a large contrast with the snowy environment, most notably frozen rivers and snowy beaches .
Because these generate in the highest humidity, they are almost guaranteed to have lush caves underground. Cold temperature zone taigas have a slightly lower chance of bordering lush caves.
The taiga's surface is a grassland with a large number of ferns and large ferns , and is forested with pine and spruce trees , which are the only trees that can generate in this biome. The vegetation also includes sweet berry bushes , and takes an aquamarine color tone. The water coloration has a unique dark turquoise tone in Bedrock Edition .
Cold animal variants spawn in the taiga, as well as foxes and pale wolves . Rainfall is common and changes to snowfall above the layer Y=160±8 within taigas due to the humid and cold climate.
Pillager outposts , villages , and trail ruins generate in taigas occasionally. These villages are made of spruce wood materials and often contain gardens with poppy and pumpkin farms. Abandoned camps sometimes generate in taigas.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
With Vibrant Visuals , taigas use a coolish humid volumetric fog setting, which slightly fades the distance in an orange tint. Taigas have coolish color grading tints the environment with a colder blue color, and cold sunlight which appears slightly brighter at dusk and dawn.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in a taiga:
In Creative mode, the following tracks can play:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Taiga" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A snowy taiga or cold taiga is an icy biome that comprises a snow-covered forest of pine and spruce trees , ferns and large ferns, and sweet berry bushes , usually generating adjacent to or within snowy plains .
Snowy taiga biomes generate at the coldest temperature zones, in medium to high humidity. They commonly border snowy plains and are often separated from them by frozen rivers . In higher humidity, as well as in higher temperature zones, they are replaced by warmer taigas without snow.
Because snowy taigas generate in the frozen temperature zone, they border snowy beaches and frozen oceans , although stony shores can also generate. Near mountains , snowy taigas are widely replaced by groves , although they can still generate as narrow river valleys.
Because of their slightly high humidity, lush caves can possibly generate under snowy taigas, although, when the snowy taiga generate far inland, dripstone caves may generate under the snowy taiga instead.
Snowy taigas are similar to regular taigas , featuring large numbers of spruce trees , ferns , and rabbits . Animals in this biome spawn with their cold variants, foxes spawn as snow foxes, and wolves use a unique ashen variant.
Sweet berry bushes generate, but are less common compared to regular taiga. The main distinction are the snow layers that cover almost the entire landscape, save for the ground protected by the leaves of spruce trees. The gelid temperature of the snowy taiga means that any exposed water freezes into ice , though lakes that generate within the taiga are often partially protected by the leaves of the trees, meaning lakes aren't usually completely frozen.
Igloos and trail ruins may generate here, as well as villages and pillager outposts in Bedrock Edition only. Villages generated here use the same architecture as normal taiga villages, but all of the roofs are covered by stacked snow. The water in village farms is frozen, leading to the crops uprooting. Villagers wear the snowy plains outfit. Abandoned camps sometimes generate in snowy taigas.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
In Bedrock Edition the water has a unique tone, and during snowfall snow layers build up and the leaves of the trees become white.
With Vibrant Visuals , snowy taigas use a coolish humid volumetric fog setting, which slightly fades the distance in an orange tint. Snowy taigas have strong cold color grading which tints the environment with an icy blue color, and cold sunlight which appears slightly brighter at dusk and dawn.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in a snowy taiga:
In Creative mode, the following tracks can play:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Snowy Taiga" or "Cold Taiga" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The jungle is a lush biome with dense vegetation of jungle trees , oak trees , bamboo , and various smaller plants. Jungles generate in humid and warm areas, often next to forests , and their sparse and bamboo variants.
Jungles generate in semi-warm temperature areas and high humidity, bordering forests , plains , deserts , wooded badlands , birch forests and dark forests . Regular jungles are often separated from sparse jungles or bamboo jungles by rivers .
Jungles can generate in any type of terrain, bordering mangrove swamps and windswept savannas at high erosion, or mountain peaks in low erosion or far inland. Mountains in jungles always consist of stony peaks , often separated by forests on the slopes.
Lush caves are common underneath jungle biomes due to their high humidity.
Jungles contain many types of vegetation densely packed together. Tall 2×2 jungle trees are common with many branches and vines , growing over 30 blocks in height. Small jungle trees with cocoa beans or the even smaller jungle bushes generate on the ground, together with oaks that are more commonly large.
The lush green grass is vegetated by ferns and vines everywhere. Melon patches are exclusive to jungle biomes, and they generate somewhat more often than pumpkin patches do in other biomes. Single bamboo plants are scattered in the jungle. Dandelions and poppies are twice as common as in most other biomes.
Parrots , ocelots , and pandas exclusively spawn in jungle biomes, together with warm animal variants.
Jungle pyramids may generate exclusively here. As these temples are partially made of mossy cobblestone and also covered in vines , they can prove hard to spot from a distance due to the density of the trees.
In Bedrock Edition , cod and salmon are the only fish which may be caught when fishing in jungles. Otherwise, bamboo and cocoa beans ‌ [ BE only ] can also be collected.
With Vibrant Visuals , jungles use a strong humid volumetric fog setting, which fades the distance in an orange tint. Jungles use warmish and color grading, which makes the biome look more humid and warm. The night sky is slightly brighter and moonlight colored more vibrant blue.
In Java Edition , jungle biomes are significantly more resource-demanding to load and render compared to other biomes. Thus, players exploring in jungles may wish to turn down their graphics settings to avoid lag and FPS drops. [1]
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the jungle:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Jungle" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A desert is an expansive arid biome mainly consisting of sand . It is notable for its many structures such as desert pyramids and villages , and its dangerous hostile mob variants.
Deserts are uncommon, making up around 3% of the Overworld by area. However, they tend to be large when they do occur.
Deserts generate in areas with very high temperatures and are more likely to generate in areas with medium to high erosion values. They can generate in lower erosions, but usually as a separation between a badlands biome and the oceans with stony shores .
Deserts are often found bordering all badlands variants or mangrove swamps . Other biomes they can border include all jungles , savannas , windswept savannas , plains and forests .
In coastal areas, deserts border warm oceans . Unlike most biomes, they do not generate beach biomes along the coastline, though stony shores do generate if erosion is low. Rivers are common, and tend to have less water and more dry grassland, with oak trees.
At high humidity values, lush caves can sometimes generate underneath deserts, with easily spottable azalea trees on the surface.
The surface is made entirely of sand , with sandstone generating underneath the sand. The terrain is usually flat, but with occasional hills and cliffs.
Among the animals that can spawn in the desert, only rabbits and camels spawn in the wild, while villagers , cats , and farm animals appear in the common desert villages .
Cacti and dead bushes generate frequently across the landscape, with cacti sometimes featuring a cactus flower on top of them. Sugar cane generates more commonly along water which is equally common to other flatland biomes. Unique desert wells generate occasionally with water as well as desert pyramids and pillager outposts . Deserts are one of the only biomes where fossils generate underground.
This large amount of structures makes desert a valuable source of treasure loot. In contrast, the desert is also one of the most dangerous biomes because of its hostile mob variants. Husks and parched spawn at nighttime or during dry thunderstorms , sometimes on jockey mounts or camel husks . These mobs do not despawn during the daytime.
With Vibrant Visuals , deserts have unique atmospherics, the sky is tinted turquoise-green at daytime and much brighter during the night. Moonlight is much more vibrant blue than in any other biome. Deserts use the warmest color grading temperature of all biomes, tinting everything yellow/orange.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the desert:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Desert" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The savanna [a] is an arid grassland biome , featuring scattered acacia and oak trees. It is populated by warm animal variants, llamas , and armadillos , and villages made of acacia wood are commonly found here.
Savannas generate in moderately high temperature zones at low humidity, meaning that they commonly border plains , forests , deserts , badlands , and mangrove swamps . They can also generate close to jungles but never border them. Near lower temperatures, the landscape can transition into sunflower plains and flower forests .
Savannas can generate at any type of terrain, however, in mountainous terrain on plateaus and slopes, they are replaced by savanna plateaus leading to stony peaks . Near swampland, they border their windswept variant instead.
Acacias and small oaks are the two types of trees that grow here. As the savannas have arid climates, it never rains here and thus lightning can never naturally strike; however, mobs can still spawn during dry thunderstorms . Grass and leaves in the savanna take on an olive-green color, giving an impression of dryness.
The savanna is mostly flat with vast amounts of tall grass covering the surface. Dandelions and poppies are twice as common as in most other biomes. Villages generates in savannas, consisting mainly of terracotta, acacia logs , and planks . Pillager outposts may generate as well. Abandoned camps sometimes generate in savannas.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Farm animals spawn with their warm variants in savannas. Armadillos , donkeys , and horses can also spawn, as well as zombie horsemen during nighttime. Savannas are one of the few biomes where llamas can spawn.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
With Vibrant Visuals , savannas use warmish color grading that tints the environment more orange/yellow. The night sky is slightly brighter and moonlight appears more vibrant blue.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in a savanna:
In Creative mode, the following tracks can play:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Savanna" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The badlands or mesa are arid-land mountainous biomes , featuring red sand and mounds of terracotta bands, coming in various colors. Badlands generate in arid lands next to deserts and their eroded and wooded variants.
Badlands biomes generate at the highest temperature and lower erosion, meaning they border deserts near oceans with stony shores at lower altitudes. Badlands biomes often border their wooded and eroded variants. Near lower temperature zones, they border savannas , forests , and plains .
Badlands generate from mid-altitude plateaus and valleys up to the highest mountain peaks where they can elevate up to Y=256 and border stony peaks . Rivers are often in deep fjords, wide valleys with almost no water, or they do not generate at all.
Because badlands generate in mountainous terrain, they often border dripstone caves and deep dark underground.
On the higher grounds, badlands biomes feature large mounds of terracotta bands, in layers of various colors; specifically, red, orange, yellow, white, light gray, brown, and regular terracotta may all naturally generate. The topmost layer of stained terracotta is often weathered into regular terracotta.
At low altitudes, the terrain surface is weathered into one layer of red sand (rarely red sandstone if floating),‌ [ JE only ] with orange terracotta under it extending to Y=63. In Java Edition , the underwater surface is covered with a layer of orange terracotta, and in shallow water, sometimes interspersed with some white terracotta, while in Bedrock Edition , it is composed entirely of stone . Deeper water bodies generate gravel like in any other biome.
Cacti and dead bushes generate frequently across the landscape, similarly to deserts , but dead bushes are more common than in deserts, and cacti are rarer, as they may only generate on the red sand valleys. Sugar canes may generate along water. Cacti have a chance of generating a cactus flower on top.
Mineshafts generate at much higher elevations in these biomes, often exposed to fresh air. Their supporting planks and fences are made of dark oak rather than oak. Additionally, extra gold ore generates up to elevation Y=255 (rather than the normal Y=32), and at much higher rates than the rest of the world. However, if an underground biome generates under badlands for example a Dripstone cave , then there wouldn't be extra gold ores in the area of the cave biome .
As badlands are arid-land biomes, rainfall never occurs here, but dry thunderstorms still allow hostile mobs to spawn.
Armadillos spawn in badlands, as well as warm animal variants, but the latter can only spawn on player-created grass blocks .
With Vibrant Visuals , badlands have unique atmospherics, the sky is tinted turquoise-green at daytime and much brighter during the night, while the daytime horizon is tinted brown. Moonlight is more vibrant blue, and the warm color grading tints the environment more yellow, although color saturation is slightly lower.
The colors of specific terracotta layers in these biomes are almost the same throughout all badlands biomes for any particular world. Each world seed generates 192 layers of terracotta for each Y-coordinate to pick from [1] . At each horizontal coordinate, each layer may shift up and down by at most ±7 blocks based on noise.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the badlands:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Before Caves & Cliffs , the badlands biome generated only as an edge around all wooded badlands plateaus and badlands plateaus , or as small spots within those biomes. It had mostly flat terrain at the red sand levels, occasionally topped with terracotta layers, but when next to the plateau biomes, steep eroded cliffs formed. Beaches did not generate next to oceans, and the biome was separated from other land biomes by a thin desert border. It was often replaced by eroded badlands as a mutation.
Issues relating to "Badlands" or "Mesa" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A swamp or swampland is a wetland biome where slimes , frogs , and bogged can spawn, and it is the only biome where swamp huts can generate. It is vegetated by unique swamp oaks covered in vines , firefly bushes , lily pads , and more.
Swamp biomes are usually found in flat terrain near sea level in regions with very high erosion values, and they also replace rivers in these areas. Swamps never directly border the ocean , however, their water bodies are often connected to one.
The swamp biome generates at temperatures of -0.45 to 0.2, meaning it generates at the temperate and cold biome temperature noise values. Surrounding terrain is usually flat with biomes like plains , sunflower plains , most forests , and most taigas . Often, swamps are surrounded by ranges of windswept hills or windswept savannas , some islands of temperate biomes can generate within the swamp. At higher temperatures, swamps border mangrove swamps , while they end abruptly in frozen rivers at cold temperatures.
Swamps have sparse oak trees which can grow on land or in shallow water and generate with vines growing on them. Mushrooms are more common here than in most Overworld biomes, mostly generating in dark areas or under trees. In Bedrock Edition , huge mushrooms can generate as well. Sugar cane is found more commonly growing on shores, and seagrass litters the bottom of flooded areas. Firefly bushes and blue orchids grow among the grass, the latter of which are found exclusively in swamps. Lily pads are scattered across the surface of the water and dead bushes dot the surface of the land.
Swamp biomes, alongside mangrove swamps and deserts , can generate underground fossils . A swamp rarely generates swamp huts , housing a witch and a black cat . Only witches can spawn in and around the hut. Villages sometimes generate next to a swamp, where they spawn unique swamp villagers . Otherwise, the only way for these villagers to spawn is either by being bred in a swamp, or curing a zombie villager that spawned in a swamp.
Abandoned camps sometimes generate in swamps.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Swamps have elevations low enough to go below sea level throughout much of the area. A large portion of swamps is flooded, where patches of clay are found on the lakebed, although deeper water only has a gravel floor. The shores of swamps may have marsh-like terrain, where the shores are very irregular, often without smooth transition, and with some small puddles generated. Sand or gravel disks do not generate.
Water in swamps takes on a gray-green color. Underwater fog is thick here so that visibility is lower than in other biomes underwater. Additionally, unlike other Overworld biomes, swamps have varying tints for grass blocks , short grass , leaves , and other plants, following a noise algorithm .
With Vibrant Visuals , swamps have a unique brown-green sky color, and stronger volumetric fog effects, fading the sun and sunlight.
Slimes may spawn in swamps during the night, exclusively between Y=50 and Y=70, making swamps and mangrove swamps the only places where slimes can be found above ground. Their spawn rate is affected by the moon phase , spawning most often during full moon and not spawning at all during new moon. Bogged add an additional threat to the night, thunderstorms, or caves ,‌ [ JE only ] as their poison arrows can increase the danger of hostile mobs.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the swamp:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Swamp" or "Swampland" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The mangrove swamp is a wetland biome populated with mud and mangroves where slimes , frogs , and bogged can spawn.
Mangrove swamp biomes are usually found in flat terrain near sea level in regions with very high erosion values, and they also replace rivers in these areas. Mangrove swamps never directly border the ocean , but their water bodies are often connected.
They generate replacing swamps in higher temperature zones, next to savannas , all jungles , and deserts , and less commonly forests and plains . Mangrove swamps are often surrounded by windswept savanna ranges. Within the biome, some higher patches of temperate land biomes may generate, allowing villages to touch them.
Mangrove swamp biomes are a variant of the swamp biome featuring dense mangrove trees which vary in height and sometimes contain a bee nest with bees . The floor is mainly composed of mud blocks with occasional grass block or dirt disks . Seagrass litters the bottom of flooded areas, and lily pads dot the water's surface.
In Java Edition , unlike most Overworld biomes, mushrooms do not generate here. The grass has the same color as the normal swamp, determined by a temperature gradient, but leaves and vines have a unique light green tint, and the water is teal rather than gray. Warm frogs and tropical fish are the only passive mobs that spawn in this biome.
Additional slimes may spawn in mangrove swamps during the night, exclusively between Y=50 and Y=70. Their spawn rate is affected by the moon phase , spawning most often during full moon and not spawning at all during new moon. Bogged add an additional threat to the night, thunderstorms, or caves.‌ [ JE only ]
Mangrove swamp biomes, alongside deserts and regular swamps, can generate fossils underground. However, swamp huts do not generate here.
Villagers that spawn in mangrove swamps get a unique swamp-themed look. While villages don't generate in swamps, they are commonly found bordering one with some houses in the biome. Otherwise, swamp villagers can only spawn by curing zombie villagers in this biome or breeding villagers here.
Underwater fog is thick here, making visibility lower underwater. With Vibrant Visuals , mangrove swamps use a strong humid volumetric fog setting similar to jungles , which fades the distance in an orange tint, and moonlight is colored more vibrant blue. Mangrove swamps have brighter blue daytime sky colors, and a slightly warmer color grading, but not as much as jungles.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the mangrove swamp:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Mangrove Swamp" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Mushroom fields or mushroom islands are rare biomes which always generate as islands surrounded by deep oceans . They are the only place in the game where mycelium and mooshrooms are found, and have the special property that no hostile mobs normally spawn in them.
Mushroom fields make up about 0.15% of the Overworld's area. They generate in areas where the continentalness values are the lowest, meaning they almost always generate as islands very far away from major landmasses, and are bordered by deep ocean biomes of any temperature. This means that ocean monuments generate almost always next to mushroom fields.
The islands have the occasional tendency to be close to one another, resulting in multiple mushroom fields separated by only a few hundred blocks. It is nearly impossible for the player to spawn in the mushroom fields biome.
The mushroom fields generate in usually flat islands and have mycelium instead of grass blocks on the surface. Grass blocks that are placed by the player in this biome take on a bright green color, similar to the grass found in jungles . A large amount of brown and red mushrooms cover the land. It is one of the only biomes, along with swamps ‌ [ BE only ] and dark forests , where huge mushrooms generate naturally. Sugar cane , short grass , and firefly bushes sometimes generate by the ocean. [1]
The huge mushrooms generate with a density high enough to be a reliable source of mushroom blocks , but low enough not to significantly obstruct vision. Here, mushrooms can grow in full sunlight. Water is a light gray color in Bedrock Edition .
Mushroom fields are the only biome where mooshrooms naturally spawn. Red mooshrooms, bats ,‌ [ JE only ] and glow squids are the only mobs that spawn naturally in this biome; this also applies in caves , mineshafts , and other underground structures, meaning the biome is mostly safe both above and below ground.
However, monsters spawned from other sources than the natural spawn cycle continue to spawn, such as monster spawners , raids , and phantoms .‌ [ JE only ] [2] Lush caves can sometimes generate underground, allowing for monsters to spawn naturally. Additionally, lightning strikes can transform red mooshrooms into brown mooshrooms or vice versa. Wandering traders also spawn normally.
Mushroom fields have a unique sky color with Vibrant Visuals , which is yellow at the horizon and gray at zenith. At sunset, the horizon turns bright red, while at sunrise it is more purple/pink. At night, there is a dim purple light at the horizon. Mushroom fields also have slightly stronger volumetric fog , tinted by a unique purple sunlight.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in mushroom fields:
In Creative mode, the following tracks can play:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Mushroom Fields" or "Mushroom Island" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The meadow is an elevated grassy mountain slope and plateau biome filled with patches of flowers , turquoise-green grass and tall grass , where sheep , donkeys and rabbits spawn.
Meadows generate on the slope of mountains , standalone on plateaus, or as valleys inside mountain rings, in the medium and cold temperature zones. This allows for a wide variety in shapes and terrain; they can often generate as "microbiomes" of only a few blocks wide; as plateaus stretching hundreds of blocks; or a thin slope surrounding massive mountains. Meadow biomes can also form mountain rings on their own.
On the valley side of meadows, they border flower forests , plains , forests , birch forests , and taigas while they border jagged peaks , snowy slopes , and groves on the mountain side. They can border cherry groves , savanna plateaus , or any snowy biome when the temperature changes, and forests or pale gardens when humidity increases.
Mountains with meadows are often separated from cherry grove and frozen peaks mountains or sunflower plains by rivers or dry valleys.
The meadow is a high altitude counterpart to the plains biome. It is covered by most flowers controlled by a gradient, meaning that it can continue for hundreds of blocks with the same type of flower. In addition to this, the ground is covered by lots of short grass and wildflowers , along with some tall grass .
Rarely, a lone oak or birch tree of any size can generate and always has a bee nest . Both pillager outposts and plains villages can generate in this biome, making this the only mountain biome where villages can generate. In Java Edition , unlike most overworld biomes, sugar canes and pumpkin patches cannot generate here. Abandoned camps sometimes generate in meadows.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Just like other mountain biomes, emerald ores can be found in meadows, especially at higher altitudes, and both coal and iron ores are commonly found here. Infested block blobs also naturally generate in meadows.
In Bedrock Edition , meadows are cold and allow snowfall above Y=200±8, however, this never occurs on natural terrain.
The only passive mobs that can spawn here are rabbits , sheep , and occasionally donkeys .
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in meadows:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Meadow" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A grove is a snowy forest biome that often generates on the sides of mountains . Similar to the snowy taiga , it is filled with spruce trees but the ground is covered with snow blocks and occasional powder snow patches.
Groves generate as mountain slope biomes, similar to meadows and cherry groves , but at higher altitudes and not as plateaus. They can also generate standalone on smaller peaks, sometimes measuring only a few blocks in size.
They can generate in the coldest to medium temperature zones with higher humidity. They often border jagged peaks and frozen peaks as mountain biomes and meadows in valleys, and they are replaced by snowy slopes in lower humidity. Groves commonly border medium forested biomes like forests , birch forests , taigas , dark forests , and old growth taigas .
In the coldest temperature zones, groves extend to entire valleys and hills around mountains, replacing snowy taigas and taigas , and also bordering frozen rivers and frozen oceans with tall cliffs or stony shores . Snowy taigas and regular taigas can sometimes generate as thin strips replacing rivers in highland snowy slopes.
Because groves are mountain biomes, they are almost guaranteed to have deep dark underneath, and commonly also dripstone caves or lush caves .
A grove creates a forest of spruce trees on the sides of a mountain, reminiscent of a snowy taiga but the surface is covered snow blocks above a dirt ground, with snow layers on top. All spruce trees grow on a single block of dirt replacing snow blocks, with a slightly lower density than in snowy taigas.
Strips of powder snow occasionally replace snow blocks and the dirt below, where trees do not generate. Fallen trees and dying trees do not generate here.
Rabbits , snowy wolves and snow foxes can spawn in this biome. Like other mountain biomes, emerald ore and infested stone can generate in stone under the ground. Pillager outposts are the only structures that generate here.
With Vibrant Visuals , groves use default environmental settings with a coolish color grading, making the biome appear colder blue. They use cold sunlight, which is slightly brighter at dusk and dawn.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in a grove:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Grove" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Snowy slopes are snowy biomes that often generate on the sides of mountains . Unlike the snowy plains , this biome is made out of stone covered with one or more layers of snow blocks and occasional powder snow patches.
Snowy slopes generate as mountain slope biomes, similar to meadows and cherry groves , but at higher altitudes and not as plateaus. They can also generate standalone on smaller peaks, sometimes measuring only a few blocks in size.
They can generate in the coldest to medium temperature zones with lower humidity. They often border jagged peaks and frozen peaks as mountain biomes and meadows and cherry groves in valleys, and they are replaced by groves in higher humidity. Snowy slopes can also border medium biomes when they generate on plateaus, like plains , sunflower plains , and flower forests .
In the coldest temperature zones, snowy slopes extend to entire valleys and hills around mountains, replacing snowy plains and ice spikes , and also bordering frozen rivers and frozen oceans with tall cliffs or stony shores . Ice spikes and snowy plains can sometimes generate as thin strips replacing rivers in highland snowy slopes.
Because snowy slopes are mountain biomes, they are almost guaranteed to have deep dark underneath, and commonly also dripstone caves .
Snowy slopes are similar to groves except that no trees generate. It is a mostly barren biome covered in snow , multiple layers of snow blocks and strips of powder snow , with steep sides to the north or east also having stone cliffs covered with snow layers.
Infested stone generates underground as well as emerald ore .
Goats spawn in this biome alongside snowy rabbits and polar bears .‌ [ BE only ] At nighttime, strays may also spawn alongside common hostile mobs.
This is the only mountain biome where igloos can generate. Pillager outposts also generate.
With Vibrant Visuals , snowy slopes use default environmental settings with a coolish color grading, making the biome appear colder blue. They use cold sunlight, which is slightly brighter at dusk and dawn.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in snowy slopes:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Snowy Slopes" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The jagged peaks are one of the tall mountain peak biomes. These tall and jagged mountains are completely made out of stone covered by a layer of snow blocks .
Jagged peaks only generate on high mountain peaks in the coldest to medium temperature ranges. Depending on the continentalness, erosion, and weirdness, jagged peaks can take on many different shapes; small hilltops not much higher than Y=160, large singular mountain peaks, rings of peaks surrounding a valley, or extreme mountainous terrain with rugged terrain up to the generation limit of Y=256.
As mountain peaks, they are often surrounded by layered slope biomes, bordering groves and snowy slopes with plateau biomes like meadows and pale gardens underneath, but they may also directly border medium biomes.
Jagged peaks are separated from frozen peaks by river valleys and usually have slightly more rugged terrain.
They never generate close to swamps or windswept hills . When near an ocean , the surrounding terrain gets cut off into massive cliffs. River valleys are either deep fjords, or have no river biome and consist of elevated land biomes.
Deep dark is guaranteed below jagged peaks, generating up to higher altitudes. Above this, dripstone caves are common, although lush caves may also generate.
The blocks that make up the jagged peaks are almost entirely raw terrain blocks like stone with many exposed ores . Notably, emerald ore , iron ore , and coal ore is more common and infested stone generates deeper underground.
The terrain is covered by one layer of snow blocks which are covered by snow layers. Just like the snowy slopes , stone cliffs can generate in steep sides to the east or north with only a layer of snow covering them.
Pillager outposts are the only structures that can generate here, and they often form large foundations of cobblestone due to the tall cliffs. Goats can spawn frequently in this biome, and in Bedrock Edition , rabbits and polar bears can also spawn here.
With Vibrant Visuals , jagged peaks use default environmental settings with a coolish color grading, making the biome appear colder blue. They use cold sunlight, which is slightly brighter at sunrise and sunset.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in jagged peaks:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Jagged Peaks" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The deep dark is a cave biome that generates deep underground in the Overworld under mountainous areas. Covered in sculk , no hostile mobs spawn here except for the warden which appears after activating sculk shriekers .
The deep dark is a cave biome that generates deep underground beneath areas with a low erosion value. The deep dark usually stays within the deepslate layer, although it can occasionally reach into the stone layer when mountains above reach higher altitudes.
The following biomes are usually an indicator of deep dark. Note that it can also generate under most medium biomes when near mountains.
The deep dark is covered in large patches of sculk blocks surrounded by sculk veins , which include sculk-related blocks such as sculk shriekers , sculk sensors and sculk catalysts .
The biome is dimly lit; there is almost no glow lichen , with the only natural light sources being sculk catalysts and lava . No regular mob spawning occurs in this biome, but other mechanics are unaffected: monster rooms can still spawn mobs, [1] and in very specific cases phantoms [2] ‌ [ JE only ] and skeleton horse traps also still spawn. [3] Furthermore, the warden may appear if four shriekers are triggered, giving the player the Darkness effect.
The deep dark is the only biome where ancient cities can generate. Other structures and features that can be found in the deep dark include monster rooms , strongholds , and amethyst geodes . Mineshafts and trial chambers never generate in a deep dark biome, although they may extend into one.
While certain ores that are exposed to air blocks have a chance to not generate, sculk blocks are considered a solid block during generation, causing many ores to be revealed under it.
The deep dark is the only Overworld biome that lava lakes can't appear in, even if deep dark generates above Y=0.
If a deep dark were to generate at the surface, it would appear like plains with grassy terrain and sculk patches. In Java Edition , the flower gradients also match plains, which allows players to grow flowers like tulips using bone meal underground.
These music tracks play when the player is in the deep dark.
Java Edition ：
Bedrock Edition ：
Issues relating to "Deep Dark" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The dripstone caves is a cave biome found in inland areas, filled with clusters and pillars of pointed dripstone and dripstone blocks .
Dripstone caves generate underground at any altitude beneath areas with high continentalness values (≥ 0.8), which means they are usually found far inland, and are essentially never found under ocean biomes or bordering a coast. An indicator of high continentalness is when river fjords stop generating and mountain valleys are elevated.
While dark forests , old growth taigas , bamboo jungles , wooded badlands , and taigas at temperatures of -0.450 and below are almost guaranteed to have lush caves under them, dripstone caves may generate under them instead of lush caves when they're far inland.
A dripstone cave looks similar to a regular cave, but dripstone blocks and pointed dripstone , both hanging as stalactites and growing from the ground as stalagmites generate throughout the biome. The ground is filled with small water wells of only a few blocks wide, containing waterlogged dripstone.
Large dripstone cluster structures occasionally generate inside expansive caves and ravines. This biome also generates larger copper ore blobs compared to other biomes. Drowned and rarely zombie nautiluses are able to spawn in aquifers, unlike in other biomes. The same cave structures and features can generate as normally, like monster rooms and glow lichen . In Bedrock Edition , woodland mansions also rarely generate.
When exposed to the surface, the surface is made entirely out of stone with occasional patches of dripstone. Above Y=120±8, the temperature drops below freezing level in Bedrock Edition , freezing all water and covering the terrain with snow, even when generated in warm biomes like badlands . However, no rain or snowfall occurs as it is an arid biome.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in dripstone caves.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dripstone Caves" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The lush caves is a temperate cave biome with unique fauna and flora found underground below humid biomes, indicated above ground by azalea trees . Exclusive mobs, such as axolotls , glow squid , and tropical fish can spawn here.
Lush caves generate underground at any altitude and temperature, underneath biomes with high humidity values (≥ 0.7). This makes them most commonly found beneath dark forests , jungles , old growth taigas , wooded badlands , and taigas within frozen biomes.
Less commonly, they generate under windswept forests , mangrove swamps , birch forests , other taigas, and snowy taigas . When these biomes generate far inland, however, dripstone caves may generate instead.
It is not possible for lush caves to generate beneath forests and grassland biomes like plains and savanna as they are not humid enough.
Lush caves can sometimes generate beneath oceans and deserts , whose generation is independent of humidity values.
Azalea trees generate on any empty space above a lush cave, with roots consisting of rooted dirt and hanging roots that generate down until reaching the lush cave. This is most common at the surface, but they can sometimes generate inside caves if there is enough room.
Underground, moss covers the floors and ceilings, along with moss carpets , short grass , tall grass , and azalea bushes on the ground. On the ceiling, vines and cave vines with glow berries grow down and light up the caves, and spore blossoms grow from the ceiling and fill the caves with particles .
Shallow lakes lined with clay generate between the moss on the ground, filled with dripleaf plants. Tropical fish and axolotls are unique to these pools, whereas common cave mobs like bats and glow squid can also spawn. While hostile mobs can spawn throughout the biome, many areas have a light level greater than 0 due to the pervasive glow berries .
Stone and variants containing ores are sparsely exposed between the vegetation.
Asides from the regular underground structures that can generate in all biomes, woodland mansions rarely generate on the surface above lush caves in Bedrock Edition .
In Bedrock Edition , lush caves are arid biomes with no rain and dry grass colors, although this is barely noticable underground.
With Vibrant Visuals , lush caves biomes use a strong humid volumetric fog setting similar to jungles , which fades the distance in an orange tint. Lush caves have default atmospherics and lighting, and warmish color grading, which makes the biome look more humid and warm, while also notably increasing the color contrast.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in lush caves.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Lush Caves" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The Nether wastes or hell ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] is the most common biome found in the Nether .
The Nether wastes is the most common Nether biome and makes up around 36% of the Nether by volume. Unlike other Nether biomes, which tend to generate in large patches, the Nether wastes more often generates in thinner strips, often separating two or more other biomes. In particular, a thin strip of Nether wastes always separates the crimson forest and the basalt deltas , or the warped forest and soul sand valley , pairs of biomes that can never border each other.
The Nether wastes is a barren biome composed of mostly netherrack . It has extensive lava seas with glowstone blobs hanging from the ceiling. Blobs of Nether quartz , Nether gold ore , and blackstone generate in the wastes (where ore is most visible) with the rarer ancient debris found unexposed within the terrain. Gravel and soul sand are found among its coastlines.
Most of the Nether 's mobs can spawn here, including ghasts , zombified piglins , magma cubes , striders , piglins , and the occasional endermen . Nether fortresses , ruined portals and bastion remnants are present as well.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the Nether wastes:
Nether ambience plays while the player is in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Nether biome" or "Nether Wastes" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A soul sand valley is a dry biome located in the Nether . It is formed of large caverns with Nether fossils and different blocks, mainly including soul sand and soul soil .
The soul sand valley makes up around 17% of the Nether by volume, making it the third most common biome in the dimension. It can generate next to any other Nether biome except for the warped forest .
The soul sand valley is mostly composed of soul sand and soul soil , with gravel found on its coastlines. Soul fire is scattered throughout the biome and Nether fossils poke out of the terrain. Near these fossils are dried ghasts . It lacks a diverse set of plants , with the only native vegetation being crimson roots and mushrooms , although crimson fungi and huge fungi may spawn where the biome borders a crimson forest . Its fog is cyan and the air particles are gray as the sounds of winds and the voices of ghosts fill the air. Giant columns of basalt called basalt pillars can be found stretching from the floor to the ceiling. Caverns, Nether fortresses and even bastion remnants can also be found in the soul sand valley.
Glowstone blobs can be found in this biome, although they are significantly rarer than in other Nether biomes, [1] since the ceiling of this biome is made of soul sand or soul soil below which glowstone blobs cannot generate; they can still occasionally generate in caves and canyons in this biome, [2] because the ceiling is made of netherrack .
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the soul sand valley:
Nether ambience plays while the player is in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Soul Sand Valley" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The crimson forest is a forested biome in the Nether . It is one of two Nether biomes where players are able to acquire wood without returning to the Overworld. This forest is the only place where huge crimson fungus trees grow naturally.
The crimson forest is the second most common Nether biome, making up 22% of the Nether by volume, and can generate next to any other Nether biome except for the basalt deltas .
Crimson forests are dense and have a crimson color scheme. The forest's fog is dark red and blazing particles are seen floating. Piglins are often seen in this biome in groups of 3-4. Zombified piglins also spawn, but in fewer numbers, and striders appear in lava lakes that generated within the biome. This is the only biome where hoglins naturally spawn outside of bastion remnants .
The forest floor is mostly covered with crimson nylium , with some netherrack and Nether wart blocks generating on the surface as well. The most frequent vegetation of the biome includes crimson fungi , crimson roots and huge crimson fungi , along with weeping vines that hang from the large fungi and Nether wart blocks from the ceiling, and lone shroomlights that provide light within the huge fungi. Warped fungi , though less common, also occasionally generate, naturally keeping hoglins away from affected areas. Just like in the rest of the Nether biomes, fire and lava are very common, with the latter appearing as lava springs or whole lava lakes. Glowstone blobs also spawn on the ceiling like normal.
Nether fortresses can generate in this biome, along with bastion remnants and ruined portals .
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in a crimson forest:
Nether ambience plays while the player is in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Crimson Forest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The warped forest is an uncommon forested biome found in the Nether . Endermen are common in this biome, and hostile mobs do not spawn naturally. It is one of two Nether biomes where players are able to acquire wood without returning to the Overworld. The warped forest is the only place where huge warped fungus trees grow naturally.
The warped forest is the rarest of the five biomes in the Nether, making up around 8% of the Nether by volume. The warped forest can generate next to any other Nether biome except for soul sand valleys .
The warped forest is dense and has a cyan color scheme. The forest's fog and particles have a deep blue tone, and the fog appears lilac with Night Vision .
The floor of the biome is composed mostly of warped nylium , with some netherrack and warped wart blocks generating on the surface. The biome's natural vegetation includes Nether fungi , warped roots , huge warped fungi , and twisting vines growing from the ground. Large overhangs extend over the oceans of lava. Blobs of glowstone generate in the ceiling, and shroomlights generate on the huge fungus scattered around the forest.
Endermen spawn most commonly here, albeit at much lower density than in the End . The only other mob that can spawn naturally here are striders ; however, hostile mobs may still spawn in Nether fortresses and bastion remnants .
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
The warped forest is one of the two biomes in the game devoid of music (the other one being the pale garden ), although music tracks started in other biomes continue playing when the player moves here.
Nether ambience plays while the player is in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Warped Forest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The basalt deltas are a volcanic biome found in the Nether .
The basalt deltas is the second rarest Nether biome, making up around 16% of the Nether by volume, and can generate next to any other Nether biome except for the crimson forest .
The rough and jagged terrain of basalt deltas is composed largely of basalt and blackstone and features numerous deltas , shallow pools of lava , and magma blocks , typically reaching depths of 1 to 3 blocks. The biome's fog is a dull lilac color, and ambient ash particles float through the air. Archipelagos with islands of different sizes can be found around the lava seas nearby. On the ceiling, glowstone blobs generate as usual. Both brown and red mushrooms still grow in this biome on top of the basalt blocks.
Nether fortresses and ruined portals can be found here. Nether quartz ore , Nether gold ore , and the rare ancient debris generate underground, but are more difficult to obtain due to the abundance of deltas and lava seas. Ore also spawns more frequently to compensate for the significantly reduced amount of netherrack in the biome. Bastion remnants are not present, making basalt deltas the only Nether biome to not feature them.
Magma cubes have a higher spawn rate in this biome than in any other biome. Occasionally, a ghast can be spotted. Like in all Nether biomes, striders wander the lava lakes, and sometimes spawn trapped in the countless deltas.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the basalt deltas:
Nether ambience plays while the player is in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Basalt Deltas" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The End highlands is a biome used to generate the outer End islands .
This biome generates as part of the outer islands of the End , forming the hill-tops in the center of each island. This is the only biome where chorus trees naturally generate. End cities also generate here.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the end highlands:
Issues relating to "End Highlands" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The End midlands is a biome used to generate outer End islands .
This biome generates as part of the outer islands of the End , forming the gradual slope from the hill-tops of each island down to the cliffs around the edge. End cities generate here, but chorus trees do not.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the end midlands:
Issues relating to "End Midlands" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The End barrens is a biome used to generate the outer End islands .
This biome generates as part of the outer islands of the End , forming the outer edges of End midlands and highlands , with steep cliffs below the edge. Neither end cities nor chorus trees can generate in this biome.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the end barrens:
Issues relating to "End Barrens" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The small End islands is a biome used to generate outer End islands .
This biome generates as part of the outer islands of the End which consists of the empty expanses between the larger islands, populated only by smaller, circle-shaped islands. Neither End cities nor chorus trees can generate in this biome and it is the only biome where small islands can generate.
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
These music tracks play while the player is in the small end islands:
Issues relating to "Small End Islands" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A pale garden is a rare variant of the dark forest biome with pale oaks and many pale vegetation blocks. Creaking hearts that spawn creakings at night can often be found here.
Pale gardens generate adjacent to dark forests in areas of high continentalness and weirdness . They are always found on plateaus or mountain slopes from areas with medium temperature and the highest humidity.
Besides dark forests, pale gardens commonly border meadow and grove biomes, and uncommonly old growth pine taigas , forests , birch forests , jungles , frozen peaks , and jagged peaks . Because they can border meadows, villages sometimes touch pale gardens, unlike regular dark forests.
They mainly consist of pale oak trees , along with pale moss patches made of pale moss blocks and pale moss carpets , and scattered eyeblossoms . Pale hanging moss can be found hanging off the trees. Some of the pale oak trees contain a creaking heart block, which spawns a creaking when activated at night. Woodland mansions can generate in pale gardens. The water , sky, and blocks of the biome are desaturated.
Abandoned camps sometimes generate in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
With Vibrant Visuals , the pale garden has an extremely dense pale fog that blocks all skylight and limits the view to only a few chunks. Sunlight is much less bright and colored gray, as well as moonlight. Pale gardens use coolish color grading, which tints the environment colder blue.
Ambient music does not play in pale gardens. If a music track is playing while the player enters the biome, it fades into silence. The music resumes when the player exits the biome.
Creakings are found in this biome only at night, but their spawning is controlled by creaking hearts , not the biome. Since naturally generated pale oaks only have a 20% chance to include a creaking heart, it is possible to find small pale gardens with no creaking hearts.
Regular passive mobs do not naturally spawn in the pale garden, [1] but normal hostile mobs can spawn here, sometimes even during the day because of the thick foliage. [2]
The following mobs naturally spawn here:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Pale Garden" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A creeper is a common hostile mob that quietly approaches a player , hisses, and explodes if the player remains near. Creeper explosions can destroy blocks and deal massive amounts of damage , which can be completely blocked using a shield or blocks.
When struck by lightning , a creeper becomes a charged creeper , which amplifies its explosion power and enables mob heads to be obtained from piglins , zombies , skeletons and other creepers it kills. It also bumps up the chance for a wither skeleton skull to drop to 100% from a wither skeleton .
Due to its distinctive appearance and unique destructive method of attack, the creeper has become one of the most iconic mobs of Minecraft , being featured in promotional material and merchandise.
Creepers naturally spawn in the Overworld on solid blocks with a light level of 0, except in mushroom fields and deep dark biomes. In Bedrock Edition , creepers also do not spawn in rivers , frozen rivers , and snowy plains . They spawn individually in Bedrock Edition and in groups of four in Java Edition .
In Bedrock Edition , there is a density limit of five creepers on the surface of Overworld.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Creepers chase any player within a 16-block radius. They chase the player at a 14-block radius when they are crouching. They do not attack any other mob without provocation by being attacked first.
When within 3 blocks of a player, a creeper stops moving, hisses, flashes and expands, and explodes after 1.5 seconds (30 ticks ), destroying (and dropping as items ) blocks in the area as well as significantly damaging the player. A creeper's detonation can be halted if the player leaves the blast radius, including by knocking it back, going out of the creeper's sight, or if the creeper is killed before the explosion. Assuming the player stays within line of sight, the distance that the player must move in order for a creeper to cancel its explosion is 7 blocks, regardless of difficulty. Normal creeper explosions have a power of 3.
In Java Edition , if the game rule mobExplosionDropDecay is set to false, blocks have a 100% chance of dropping as items instead of being destroyed.
A creeper explodes only if it has an uninterrupted line of sight with the player throughout the entire 1.5-second countdown. As a result, if the creeper does not have line-of-sight with the player, it does not start hissing even at close range, even if the player is attacking it, and a detonation is canceled if it has started. The hissing sound plays in its entirety regardless of whether the explosion happens or not.
Unlike most mobs, the creeper does not have an idle sound, nor does it have unique step sounds. Although it does make normal stepping and swimming sounds, it is hard for players to distinguish those from their own sounds. This makes the approach of a creeper difficult for an unwary player to notice until it starts hissing.
A creeper jumps down to a player if it can survive the fall. A creeper taking fall damage adds to its swell according to fallDistance * 1.5 , up to a maximum of 5 less than the fuse of the creeper. The creeper explodes when the swell equals the fuse, so an explosion occurs soon after landing with higher falls. For example, a creeper falling from greater than 16 blocks can explode 5 ticks after it lands.
Despite their lack of arms, creepers can climb up ladders , vines , and similar blocks like any other mob, but do not do so intentionally.
Using a flint and steel or fire charge ‌ [ JE only ] on a creeper forces an explosion.
In Java Edition , the detection range of creepers is reduced by 50% when the player is wearing a creeper head .
Creepers flee from ocelots and cats within a 6-block radius, with faster movement than when pursuing a player. Cats and ocelots do not attack creepers. A creeper that has begun a detonation does not flee unless the player leaves its blast radius.
Creepers are not targeted by tamed wolves , iron golems or zoglins . However, they are still attacked by withers , snow golems , [1] vindicators named "Johnny", wardens and goats . When hit by a stray projectile (like a drowned 's trident), a creeper retaliates if not already chasing a player. If a creeper is attacked by any mob except a goat , the creeper moves toward the mob that attacked it and explodes.
When a creeper is inflicted with a status effect , its explosion creates an area effect cloud of the effect, like a lingering potion.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Charged creepers are stronger versions of creepers. They are distinguished from normal creepers by their blue aura surrounding them, and their explosion power is significantly increased from 3 to 6, equal to that of an End crystal .
A charged creeper is created when lightning strikes within four blocks of a normal creeper. The lightning can be created in any way, including naturally, with the / summon command, by a trident with the Channeling enchantment, or attracted to a lightning rod . Due to this mechanic, creepers cannot be damaged by lightning but still can take damage from fire caused by it.
A charged creeper can also be summoned using the following commands:
Their countdown timers are the same as normal creepers, both in terms of range and time. Charged creepers' explosions are 50% more powerful than an explosion of TNT and 100% more powerful than their normal counterparts. How close the creeper was to the lightning strike does not affect the size or power of the explosion.
In Java Edition , a charged creeper explosion that kills zombies , skeletons , wither skeletons , piglins , or other creepers causes only one [2] of those mobs to drop its corresponding mob head . If multiple valid mobs are killed in the explosion, the one that drops a head is chosen at random. In Bedrock Edition , a charged creeper explosion that kills zombies, skeletons, wither skeletons, piglins, or other creepers causes all the killed mobs to drop their corresponding heads. [3]
A charged creeper does not drop its own head when it explodes, although any other charged creepers or creepers killed in the explosion drop a creeper head. Players and ender dragons do not drop their heads, [4] nor do mobs without corresponding mob heads, such as livestock animals.
Charged creepers have the same entity ID as normal creepers. The only difference is that the value of the boolean powered tag is set to 1 (true).
The overlay of charged creepers is strongly emissive with Vibrant Visuals , and darkens the environment as a screen effect. Combined with the darkness of a thunderstorm, this makes the creeper behind it almost invisible.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Creepers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
These mobs were originally meant to be a pig , but due to a coding bug, it created a creeper after the model got repurposed.
The story of the Creeper – it was supposed to be the pig, but Notch mixed the height and the width values, or the rotation of it, so it's standing up instead of lain horizontally. But it did have the AI behaviour of looking at the player. So he just thought it was extremely creepy, with this weird thing walking around, looking at you. So he decided to keep it as a monster. He wrote that a friend said it would be cool if it exploded *laughs* and that brought us to the Creeper.
The face was to clearly, with a limited number of pixels, make it look really dangerous. I think the green colour is supposed to be camouflage. But we're still debating – is it flesh? Or is it more like leaves? Or is it fur? You don't really know just by looking at the pixels. I know Junkboy debates that! *laughs*
Old hurt sounds:
Issues relating to "Creeper" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Creepers have a formidable reputation in the community because of their potential to hurt or kill even veteran players and destroy structures. Their distinct appearance and destructive abilities have made them a widely recognizable Minecraft icon. Creepers are referenced in several of the items available at the Minecraft merchandise depot, [27] and have become an internet meme complete with fan art, webcomic references, and demotivational posters. A central part of the meme is the creeper's unofficial catchphrase derived from the mob's tendency to sneak up on the player and hiss before detonating:
That'sssss a very nice <random valuable object> you've got there... It'd be a ssssshame if anything were to happen to it...
Creepers have been portrayed in many Minecraft products including but not limited to:
In Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds , a creeper is one of the playable characters. It can be unlocked by purchasing the Season Pass or Digital Deluxe Edition .
A zombie is a common undead hostile mob that deals melee damage and is a source of rotten flesh , which it drops upon death.
Zombies may spawn in the Overworld in groups of four in Java Edition or in groups of 2-4 in Bedrock Edition above solid blocks in a light level of 0, except in mushroom fields and deep dark biomes. In Bedrock Edition , zombies also do not spawn in rivers , frozen rivers , and snowy plains . All zombie variants (including babies) require a 2-block tall space to spawn.
Zombies spawned in desert biomes exposed to the sky have a likelihood of 80%‌ [ JE only ] /70%‌ [ BE only ] to be replaced by husks . Zombies that are not husks or drowned have a 5% chance to spawn as zombie villagers . Zombies have a 5% chance to spawn as babies. Baby zombies then have a 4.75% chance of spawning as chicken jockeys ,‌ [ JE only ] or a 15% chance to be able to ride certain mobs‌ [ BE only ] .
Zombies and their variants spawn with random values of knockback resistance between 0% and 5%.
If a player is near a village at midnight, up to 20 zombies may be spawned in the village in accordance with mob spawning rules. The spawning can even happen in mushroom fields biome if the triggering player is in an adjacent biome. Zombies spawned as a part of a siege are always regular zombies; zombie villagers , husks and drowned never spawn as a part of a siege, even in their respective biomes .
Inside monster rooms , zombies may have a chance to spawn from a monster spawner . Zombie monster spawners are found in 50% of monster rooms. Zombies spawned from a monster spawner never spawn as zombie villagers .
Adult zombies have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "melee" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
Baby zombies have a 1 ⁄ 4 chance to be selected as the "small melee" mob for trial spawners .
When a husk 's head is submerged in water for over 30 seconds, the husk starts transforming into a zombie, with a new entity UUID . The husk's equipment remains on the zombie after conversion.‌ [ JE only ] The zombie transforms into a drowned if its head remains submerged.
When a zombie horse spawns naturally, it always spawns with a zombie rider holding an iron spear .
Baby zombies make up 5% of zombie spawns. They behave similarly to regular zombies, with the following differences:
In Java Edition , every baby zombie has a chance to spawn as a chicken jockey. In a chicken -free environment, each baby has a 4.75% chance of spawning as a chicken jockey, for a total 0.2375% chance for each spawned zombie of spawning as a chicken jockey; if chickens are present, the chance increases to 0.4875%.
In Bedrock Edition , 15% of naturally spawned baby zombies can start riding a mob and become a jockey after it spawns. A jockey mob ridden by a baby zombie adapts to the speed of its rider. A baby zombie can ride:
Some zombies spawn wearing armor or holding weapons, both of which may be enchanted . In addition, zombies may also spawn with the ability to pick up loot that is on the ground. The chances of each of these events occurring are listed below. If a zombie spawns wearing multiple pieces of armor, the armor is never mismatched (i.e. all pieces are made of the same material). Zombies cannot naturally spawn with netherite armor.
If a zombie does spawn with armor, the chances of specific armor are as follows:
The chances of it being of a particular material are:
In Java Edition , the armor is not damaged by any damage source; it cannot "wear out" the way player armor does. Helmets (not blocks like carved pumpkins ) on zombies can break if the zombie is exposed to daylight. In Bedrock Edition , any armor piece is damaged as if the player is wearing it. [verify]
Zombies also have a natural armor rating of 2 ( ), giving 1.6 to 8% damage reduction from most sources . Zombies can also wear mob heads , although they need to be dropped by the player before the zombie can pick one up and put it on.
On Halloween , zombies in Java Edition may spawn wearing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern . They are never dropped, even when the zombies are killed with Looting .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
When a zombie dies, all of its picked-up equipment drops without changing the damage that has accumulated on it in Java Edition . In Bedrock Edition , the armor's durability is still vulnerable to attacks, as if a player is wearing it.
Zombies have an 8.5% chance of dropping their naturally-spawned equipment and drop it with a random durability. Each level of Looting increases the chance by 1 percentage point (11.5% with Looting III). They cannot drop the diamond swords that they occasionally wield during ominous trials . These items include:
Additionally, in Bedrock Edition , all naturally spawned equipment always drops at full durability when the zombie converts to a drowned .
Adult zombies drop 5 XP and baby zombies drop 12 XP when they are killed by a player or a tamed wolf . Any zombie that spawns with equipment drops another 1–3 XP per item when killed.
Zombies pursue the player on sight from 35 blocks away, raising their arms up higher in Java Edition . The detection range of zombies is reduced to half of their normal range (17.5 blocks) while the player wears a zombie head . In Java Edition , if a zombie sees a player and a villager together, the zombie prefers to attack the player, and continues chasing the player while ignoring other villagers. In Bedrock Edition , zombies prioritize the nearest player, villager, or golem.
Zombies periodically make groaning sounds, which can be heard up to 16 blocks away. Zombies attempt to avoid obstacles, including fall damage , fire , lava , magma blocks , and cactus and try to find the shortest path toward the player. [1] Unlike skeletons , zombies do not try to avoid being hit and continue to pursue the player even when being attacked.
Zombies attack baby turtles and actively seek out and destroy turtle eggs within 24 blocks horizontally and 3 blocks vertically, by jumping on them until they crack and break.
Zombies pursue and attack only iron golems within 42 blocks; zombies ignore snow golems unless attacked. Iron golems and snow golems attack zombies without provocation, although snow golems deal only knockback to zombies with their snowballs.
Zombies target villagers within a 35- to 52.5-block radius (depending on regional difficulty in Java Edition ) or just 35-block radius in Bedrock Edition , and they can always see villagers through walls. If a zombie is attacking a villager and sees the player, it interrupts its attack on the villager to attack the player instead, even if the player has not attacked it.‌ [ JE only ] Once a zombie has targeted a villager, the zombie ignores any other villagers and the player , until its target is dead, the zombie is attacked or the player moves too close to the zombie.‌ [ BE only ]
Any zombie variant can transform a villager into a zombie villager. The probability depends on the difficulty :
Zombies target wandering traders within 35 blocks and can see traders through walls. The zombie focuses solely on the trader unless it is attacked, or if either it or the target is killed or moved out of range, or if the trader is under the invisibility status effect.
A zombie holding a weapon adds the weapon's damage to its normal melee damage. For example, a zombie holding an iron shovel on Normal difficulty deals 3 HP from its punch + 3.5 HP × 1.75 from the shovel for a total of 6.5 HP × 3.25 . (it should be noted that, in Java Edition , damage values shown when hovering over weapons in the inventory include the player's 1 HP base melee damage, so an iron shovel shows up as 4.5 HP × 2.25 ; subtracting 1 gives the actual weapon's damage.) The zombie's weapon damage is scaled by difficulty: if the zombie would deal X damage on Normal, it deals 1.5X on Hard and 0.5X + 1 on Easy. For example, a zombie with an iron shovel deals 1.5×6.5 = 9.75 HP × 4.875 on Hard and 0.5×6.5 + 1 = 4.25 HP × 2.125 on Easy. Enchantments add their damage as normal before difficulty scaling.
Zombies wielding spears have different attacking behavior. When attacking, they use the spear's charge attack while moving toward their target. They hold the charge through its full duration, using all 3 stages. Once the charge attack has ended or they get too close to their target, they walk away to increase the distance between them and their target before turning around to begin another charge.
Zombies burn when exposed to direct sunlight starting 27 seconds (540 ticks) before the beginning of a new day. Burning is suppressed when the zombie is:
Transparent blocks, such as glass , do not prevent them from burning.
If they attack an entity while burning, they may set it on fire, with a (30 × regional difficulty )% chance and with a 2 × floor( regional difficulty ) second duration‌ [ JE only ] .
Being an undead mob, they are:
Some zombies are capable of automatically picking up dropped items that they come across, except for the glow ink sac . Mob heads and carved pumpkins are automatically worn on their heads. Zombies can equip armor , weapons or tools . They can also equip a shield in their off-hand. If a zombie encounters another similar item , it may drop the previous item in favor of the new one if:
For example, a zombie can pick up a totem of undying , which cannot be retrieved by killing the zombie because that would activate the totem. However, the zombie would drop the totem in favor of a sword or armor.
Items dropped by mobs in exchange for another cannot be picked up by players or mobs for 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds, barring lag), but can be picked up by hoppers .
A zombie holding a picked-up item does not despawn when left alone, similar to being name tagged .
Zombies have a higher chance of being able to pick up items in Hard difficulty .
Picked-up items do not cause the zombie to drop more experience when killed, unlike naturally-spawned gear.
Chicken jockeys cannot pick up any variant of an egg .
In Bedrock Edition , due to a bug, zombies, as well as husks, zombie villagers, and drowned can also wear horse armor , nautilus armor , and wolf armor . [3] [4]
Up to 10% of zombies (depending on regional difficulty in Java Edition ) in pursuit of a target can pathfind through closed wooden and copper doors , and on Hard difficulty can succeed in breaking them down. Zombies can break only the top half of a door, meaning they cannot break a door if they are facing the bottom half.
It takes approximately 10 seconds for a zombie to break a door, regardless of the door's type. The process is not sped up if the zombie has Haste or holds an appropriate tool , and it is not slowed down if the zombie has Mining Fatigue .
On all difficulty levels, damaged zombie mobs (including zombie villagers, husks, drowned and zombified piglins ) call all other zombie mobs of the same type within a 67×21×67 to 111×21×111 area [ n 1 ] centered on the attacked zombie to target the attacker.
In Hard difficulty, zombie mobs can spawn additional zombie mobs of the same type to "help" when damaged while targeting a player or other entity. Each mob has a "likeliness to call reinforcements" statistic ranging from 0–10%, and "leader" zombie mobs (0–5% depending on clamped regional difficulty ) get a bonus of 50–75 percentage points to the stat. Unlike other zombie variants, only leader zombified piglins can spawn reinforcements. [5]
When the mob is damaged by an entity or is damaged while targeting an entity, up to 50 attempts are made to randomly choose a spawn location (0 or ±7–40 blocks away in all three axes) that is above a block with a solid top surface, has light level 0, has no players within 7 blocks, and has no colliding entities or blocks at which to spawn the reinforcement. They spawn on the north-west corner of the designated block, instead of the center of the block like natural mob spawning does. [6] Meaning that they can spawn inside blocks which the natural spawning rules would not allow, but their hitbox may not be intersecting the block's hitbox . This allows them to spawn inside chain or bars . Additionally the designated block cannot be a non-solid block that would prevent usual mob spawning like redstone dust or pressure plates . Reinforcements can spawn even in biomes where the mob cannot spawn naturally, like mushroom fields , the End , and the Nether [7] .
When a zombie generates reinforcements, the chance of it generating another reinforcement decreases by 5%. Therefore, a normal zombie can generates directly 1 or 2 reinforcements, and a leader between 11 and 17 reinforcements. A zombie spawned by a reinforcement has a −5% bonus to generating reinforcements, therefore the initial chance of a zombie generating reinforcements is 0–5% for a normal zombie and 45‐80% for a leader zombie. The "reinforcement callee charge" bonus is not cumulative; that is, a zombie spawned by reinforcement from a zombie spawned by reinforcement receives a −5% bonus, not a −10% bonus.
Additionally, reinforcements do not spawn at all, even on Hard difficulty, if the game rule spawn_mobs is set to false . Reinforcements spawn regardless of the hostile mob cap . Mobs spawned as reinforcements are the same type of zombie [8] (i.e. zombie villagers call upon other zombie villagers) but they can be babies, including chicken jockeys. They also respect spawning requirements for the specific zombie type, meaning husk reinforcements can spawn only under the sky, drowned reinforcements may spawn only in water, and zombified piglin reinforcements cannot spawn on Nether wart blocks .
Mobs spawned by reinforcements can spawn armor and equipment, as well as chicken jockey, but not as zombie nautilus jockey or camel husk jockey.
This behavior is controlled by the attribute spawn_reinforcements .
Leader zombies are a special type of zombie that spawns with between 20 HP × 10 to 80 HP × 40 extra health, and an extra 50–75% chance to spawn reinforcements. The chance of a leader spawning increases with clamped regional difficulty . On Easy, they do not spawn. On Normal and Hard mode, they have up to a 5% chance of spawning.
If a zombie's head is submerged in water for 30 seconds, it begins converting into a drowned . The zombie shakes, similar to a zombie villager being cured and, after 15 seconds, the zombie becomes drowned. Once this process starts, it cannot be stopped even if the zombie leaves water. This time is not affected by the Respiration enchantment or the Water Breathing status effect.
A newly-converted drowned always has full health even if converted from a damaged zombie, which can cause a zombie to convert into a full-health drowned during its death animation.
An item being held or worn by a zombie when it becomes drowned, whether it was picked up or naturally spawned, has a 100% drop rate, which includes any naturally spawned equipment dropping with full durability.‌ [ BE only ]
Only normal zombies can become drowned; zombie villagers and zombified piglins cannot be converted. [9] Husks , however, convert into zombies if they drown, and then they convert into a drowned as does a normal zombie. Any husks that convert into zombies also have full health, even if the drowned husk is damaged.
15% of nearby baby zombies, husks , or drowned may ride an adult zombie to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Zombies have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Old hurt sound:
Issues relating to "Zombie" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An enderman is a neutral mob found in all three dimensions that has a chance of dropping ender pearls when it is killed. It becomes hostile to players that damage it or look directly at its face, using its arms to attack. Endermen teleport erratically, as well as away from dangers such as lava , projectiles , and water . They also occasionally pick up and move certain blocks .
Endermen can spawn on any solid surface that has at least three empty spaces above, at a light level of 0 in the Overworld and the End , or a light level of 7 or less in the Nether . They are the only mobs that spawn naturally in all three dimensions in Java Edition . [2]
Endermen spawn uncommonly in all Overworld biomes except mushroom fields and deep dark . In Bedrock Edition , endermen also do not spawn in rivers , frozen rivers , and snowy plains . They spawn in groups of up to four in Java Edition or up to two in Bedrock Edition .
Endermen spawn in groups of four in Java Edition or individually in Bedrock Edition , rarely in soul sand valleys , uncommonly in Nether wastes , and most commonly in warped forests .
Endermen spawn commonly in groups of four anywhere in the End dimension.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Endermen can step up one full block without having to jump.
With Vibrant Visuals , the eyes of endermen are emissive.
An enderman is passive until provoked. An enderman is provoked when
In Java Edition , the provocation works similar to a mob's detection range , its range reducing if the player is sneaking or under the Invisibility effect .
When provoked, an enderman opens its mouth and makes loud screaming noises. A provoked enderman also starts shaking in Java Edition .
In Java Edition , staring an aggravated enderman in the eyes from within 16 blocks of it paralyzes it, causing it to stop moving as long as the player maintains eye contact. The enderman still displays aggravated behavior, shaking and screaming with its mouth open, and resumes its chase should the player stop looking at it. Moving within four blocks of a paralyzed enderman causes it to teleport away. Unlike the distance to provoke an enderman, the minimum and maximum paralyzing distances are not affected by sneaking or invisibility.
An enderman runs toward the back of the player to attack, although it ceases if hit by another player or mob. [4] ‌ [ BE only ] [ verify for Bedrock Edition ] An aggravated enderman runs faster than the normal movement speed and, if the player is at least 16 blocks away from the enderman, often teleports up to 19 blocks horizontally and 22 blocks vertically toward the location of its target every 1.5 to 2 seconds. [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ] An enderman is not provoked by a player viewing it through a transparent block or while wearing a carved pumpkin .
An aggravated enderman pursues the player until it is either killed or distracted by external elements, such as rain or fire.‌ [ BE only ] [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ] They do not take damage from sunlight like undead mobs, but when at a sufficient light level under the sky during the day‌ [ Java Edition only ] or at any light level‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] they teleport randomly, typically ending up in caves (although certain non-full blocks, such as soul sand and mud , also register as "dark" when the enderman is standing in them).
An enderman tracks targeted mobs until they're out of sight, too far away, or in another dimension. If the target is a player, the enderman tracks the player through walls. In Java Edition , the enderman continues to chase the player for as long as it is loaded, regardless of the distance or dimension of the targeted player.
In Bedrock Edition , the enderman loses interest after enough time​ [ more information needed ] of non-interaction with the player. In Java Edition , if the internal sky light is sufficient, the enderman attempts to disengage approximately every 20 to 30 seconds. If it does not regain sight of its target within up to 40 seconds, or if it is attacked by something else, then it disengages from the player unless provoked again.
Endermen are also aggressive towards endermites and will attack them if they are 64 blocks away or less.
Endermen can be damaged by rain , water , splash water bottles , and, in Bedrock Edition , water-filled cauldrons . When contacting any one of these, endermen take 1 HP damage. In rain, endermen continuously teleport until they find a dry spot or die. Endermen are not immune to drowning .
If an enderman has nowhere to teleport to when put in water, it sinks to the bottom of the water, unable to swim. However, in rain, it will behave as usual, constantly teleporting.
This can sometimes happen when there are few blocks to teleport to, the enderman will slowly sink until it finds a valid spot.
Endermen are immune to most projectiles, as they teleport away before being hit. [5]
If an enderman is somehow unable to teleport, throwables like snowballs are absorbed, while arrows and tridents are bounced in Java Edition and pass right through in Bedrock Edition (but effects are still applied from tipped arrows).
Endermen are not immune to the warden 's sonic boom ranged attack.
Endermen teleport when dodging projectiles, when chasing a target, and when taking damage from natural sources , suffocation, and potion effects. They also teleport when hit by a player or mob,‌ [ BE only ] when paralyzed and within four blocks of their target,‌ [ JE only ] randomly at any time and light level,‌ [ BE only ] and when in places with a sky light of 15 and an internal sky light of 12 and not attacking or chasing a target.‌ [ JE only ]
Endermen play a sound exclusively at the teleportation destination. [6]
Each teleportation attempt caused by taking damage, being paralyzed,‌ [ JE only ] a projectile, or random teleportation attempt chooses a random destination 32 blocks along each axis (i.e. a 64×64×64 cube centered on the current position).
When attacking, an enderman may teleport up to 19 blocks horizontally and 22 blocks vertically to close the distance on a target. Teleportation attempts made to attack a target choose a random destination within a 9×11×9 [verify] rectangular prism centered on a point 16 blocks horizontally and 17 blocks vertically toward its target. If the target is within those ranges, the destination is centered on the target's XZ and/or Y coordinates instead. [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ]
Both teleportation types then apply the following checks:
Thus, endermen need at least three non-solid blocks above the destination to successfully teleport, and do not teleport to waterlogged blocks unless the ceiling above is movement-blocking. [7] Endermen can appear to teleport further than their maximum teleport distance when teleporting downward, as distance through air is not a factor when seeking downward for a valid location.
Blocks that have a large enough collision box but are not movement-blocking , such as carpet that is not above a movement-blocking block, snow layers 10 or more deep, and azalea , can be used to prevent teleportation. Endermen always teleport an integer Y distance, so an enderman at Y=70.0 cannot teleport onto a movement-blocking block covered by a single carpet, snow layers only 2 deep, or many other short blocks, while an enderman at Y=70.99 could teleport onto snow layers 8 or 9 deep.
Endermen always attempt to teleport upon taking damage. Most melee attacks are successful,‌ [ BE only ] but the enderman usually teleports a few blocks behind the player when hit if there is space behind the player. Endermen can be attacked with projectiles if they are in a boat or minecart . If all available blocks within teleport distance are removed or unavailable as a destination, it is possible to hit endermen in Java Edition with a projectile, although arrows may simply bounce off, dealing no damage. [8] When teleporting due to damage, it makes 64 attempts to teleport.​ [ more information needed ]
An enderman cannot teleport while it is in a minecart or boat, although in rain and water it attempts to do so, always teleporting back repeatedly until death.
Endermen have the unique ability to pick up, carry, and set down certain blocks, even when angered. Every tick, an enderman has a 1 ⁄ 20 (5%) chance to select a random block in a 4×3×4 (XYZ) region horizontally centered on the enderman and vertically encompassing it. If the enderman can directly see this block and the block is on the "holdable" list, it picks up the block. An enderman cannot pick up blocks from a completely flat floor unless it is made of non-full blocks such as mud or soul sand. An enderman can still pick up and place blocks while sitting in a boat.
Endermen do not despawn while holding a block.
Endermen drop whatever item the block they are holding would drop when it is mined with a Silk Touch tool, which usually means it drops the block itself, though there are some exceptions , like dropping stone instead of infested stone, or not dropping anything when holding bedrock. Endermen do not visually let go of the block when dying. [9] [10]
Endermen can pick up the following blocks:
Data packs in Java Edition can change this list by modifying the #minecraft:enderman_holdable block tag.
Behavior packs in Bedrock Edition can change this list by modifying the minecraft:behavior.take_block method. Unlike in Java Edition , there is no tag for these blocks, but it is possible to create a custom tag.
While an enderman is carrying a block, it has a 1 ⁄ 2000 (0.05%) chance every tick to silently [11] place the block in a 2×2×2 region horizontally centered on the enderman and vertically at the same level as the enderman itself if the target location is air with any full block beneath and the block is generally allowed to be placed at the target location. Endermen cannot place blocks onto bedrock or entities .
Endermen cannot pick up or place down blocks if the game rule mobGriefing is set to false .
Endermen can randomly breach walls, bridge fences , break redstone circuitry, set off explosions and kill themselves if they place a block of TNT on a power source, and even construct golems by placing a carved pumpkin correctly.
In Java Edition , players can summon an enderman holding any block (including the ones not listed above) using the carriedBlockState NBT data. For example, to summon an enderman holding a grass block with no AI where the player is standing:
Endermen can place any block they are summoned with, even if it is not on the allowed list.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Endermen have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Enderman" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The ender dragon is a giant flying hostile boss mob found when first entering the End . It is the largest naturally spawning mob in the game. Its attacks involve charging at the player and shooting fireballs that create damaging effect clouds . The ender dragon can be re-summoned by placing four End crystals around the exit portal .
Defeating the ender dragon the first time activates the exit portal which allows safe return to the Overworld . Each time it is defeated, an End gateway is created on the outskirts of the central island which can be used to teleport to the outer End islands .
The ender dragon spawns 20 game ticks (1 second) after an entity first arrives in the End, along with the bedrock frame for the exit portal.
Players can re-summon the dragon by placing four End crystals on the edges of the exit portal , one on each side. If the exit portal is ever destroyed, End crystals can be placed on obsidian blocks placed where the bedrock of the original exit portal once stood. In Bedrock Edition , the crystals can be placed one block outward, in all or either of the four directions.
When it is re-summoned, the four End crystals point to the tops of each pillar, setting off a series of explosions that resets the obsidian pillars, iron bars, and End crystals. The top of each pillar explodes, destroying any player-placed blocks. Eventually, all of the End crystals point at the coordinates of (0.0, 128, 0.0) and the ender dragon spawns there. The four crystals placed around the exit portal then explode. The whole sequence lasts a bit over 30 seconds (exactly 604 ticks).
If any of the End crystals placed around the exit portal are destroyed, the summoning sequence is canceled.
During the summoning sequence, the End crystals on top of the End spikes cannot be destroyed.
If the player does not pick up the dragon egg and starts to re-summon the dragon, the dragon egg disappears.
If the dragon goes through an End gateway , another immediately spawns at (0, 128, 0) while the other dragon flies to (0, 128, 0).
After the ender dragon is slain for the first time, the following events take place:
When a re-summoned ender dragon is slain, the same events occur, except that only 500 XP experience points are dropped, and if there are already 20 End gateway portals, no more are generated. In Java Edition , the dragon egg appears only the first time the ender dragon is slain; in Bedrock Edition , it appears the first and second time. [1] [2]
During the battle with the ender dragon, unique music called " Boss " plays, the edges of the screen darken, black fog appears, and chunks around the exit portal are constantly loaded regardless of simulation distance. These happen as long as there is at least one player within a Euclidean distance of 192 blocks from (0.0, 128, 0.0).
The ender dragon has a light purple health bar that appears at the top of the player 's screen. Its health is restored by nearby End crystals at the rate of 1 HP every 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds), indicated by a white beam connecting the dragon and the crystal. Destroying an End crystal that is actively healing the dragon causes 10 HP damage to it.
The ender dragon only takes damage from explosions and players (including commands ). The ender dragon is immune to fire, falling, drowning, freezing, poisoning, lightning, and the void; when perched, it is also immune to arrows (but not firework rockets shot from a crossbow). The dragon is immune to all status effects , except for Instant Damage coming from a player (via a thrown splash or lingering potion of Harming).
It also reduces all incoming damage to it by ~75% unless the attack is hitting its head, giving it an effective 800 HP × 400 if no attacks are dealt against its head. In Java Edition , due to a bug, the ender dragon's head has the same damage reduction as the rest of its hitboxes, giving no benefit to attacking its head. [3] This uses the formula original damage 4 + min ⁡ ( 1 , original damage ) , which adjusts the value toward 4 ⁄ 3 ( HP × 0.667 ). In Bedrock Edition , this damage reduction is temporarily removed when a projectile hits its head. The ender dragon's hitbox, especially its wings, is larger than the ender dragon itself. This causes players to be knocked back even when not standing too close. The damage modification is applied to all damage types the dragon takes, including starvation and void damage, which are only possible with / damage .
In Java Edition , the ender dragon is immune to critical hits , since it can be applied only to living entities . While the ender dragon is a living entity, the parts that are damaged are actually non-mob entities. Suffocation is completely non-applicable, as it either phases through or immediately destroys any block it touches.
By using the F3 + B shortcut, the dragon's bounding box appears.‌ [ Java Edition only ] However, it cannot be damaged at just any spot in this large volume: eight green sub- hitboxes are also shown, which indicate the locations where the dragon can take damage: the tail (three hitboxes), body, head, neck, and wings (one hitbox for each wing).
Name tags cannot be used on an ender dragon, because it is not possible to interact directly with it, only with its parts (green hitboxes), which are not living entities.
Ender dragons killed by / kill ‌ [ Java Edition only ] or from damage belonging to the type self_destruct , and was not spawned from the player ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , will skip their death animation and the exit portal will immediately open; in Bedrock Edition , if the dragon was killed by / kill it will stay in the same place and play its death animation there instead of flying to the exit portal.
The purple eyes and mouth of the ender dragon are emissive with Vibrant Visuals enabled.
The ender dragon is a flying mob and cannot stand on the ground. It flies around the End's main island.
The dragon can pass through all blocks and destroys most of them, but it can still be affected by flowing water , lava , and bubble columns . Blocks not destroyed are those that naturally generate on the central End island, such as End stone, and those that are intended to be indestructible, such as bedrock.
The following blocks will not be destroyed if the ender dragon passes through them:
In Java Edition , these blocks are marked under the dragon_immune tag , with the exception of light blocks and fire, which are marked as dragon_transparent .
Destroyed blocks are not dropped , but containers other than shulker boxes and ender chests drop their contents.
The dragon never targets any entity but the player, although other mobs may turn hostile to the dragon when hit, and the dragon may sometimes retaliate against other mobs if it takes damage to a projectile. Any entities hit by its wings are dealt 5 HP damage (or 10 HP damage if hit by its head), and in Java Edition , are thrown into the air, sometimes to fatal heights or off the island. Neither of these effects is applied for 1 ⁄ 2 second after the dragon takes damage.
The ender dragon has four main states of behavior:
When the dragon takes a fatal blow, it flies toward the exit portal structure before dying, unless it cannot find it within 150 blocks, or it is inside blocks.
Dragon fireballs are special fireballs that the ender dragon fires. The ender dragon always fires one dragon fireball for each End crystal destroyed by the player, and also fires them periodically. Unlike ghast fireballs , they cannot be deflected and do not deal any damage or knockback on impact with an entity. Instead, they deposit purple effect clouds across the ground that damage players the same way a lingering potion of Harming II does. This means that the ender dragon's fireballs deal magic damage, which ignores any damage reduction from the player's armor. However, its damage is reduced by the Protection enchantment. The purple effect cloud's hitbox slowly grows larger in diameter until it disappears.
As with its close-ranged breath attack, the purple clouds can be bottled to obtain the dragon's breath .
Unlike lingering potions of Harming, the effect cloud does not shrink when affecting mobs.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Ender dragons have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Dragon fireballs have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
In Java Edition , the / summon ender_dragon command, by default, summons a harmless ender dragon that hovers in place. Setting the DragonPhase tag (by issuing either the / summon ender_dragon ~ ~ ~ {DragonPhase:0} or the / data merge entity <selector> {DragonPhase:0} commands) starts the ender dragon's ordinary behavior, although the health bar does not appear because it is managed by the ender dragon fight status rather than by the dragon entity itself. If spawned away from the center of the map (x=0, z=0), it flies to the center then resumes normal behavior (see #Behavior ).
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Ender Dragon" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The wither is an undead boss mob spawned by building a specific structure using soul sand or soul soil and three wither skeleton skulls . It is able to fly, fires explosive blue and black skulls at players and most non-undead mobs, and becomes immune to projectiles below half health. It is the only source of Nether stars , which are needed to craft beacons .
The wither is spawned by placing 4 blocks of soul sand and/or soul soil in a T shape, and putting 3 wither skeleton skulls on top of the three upper blocks. The last block placed must be one of the skulls (which can either be placed by hand or by a dispenser ) then it will load a boss bar that takes 12 seconds to fully charge up, this then is followed by a large explosion. Air blocks are required on either side of the base soul sand/-soil. The orientation of the skulls does not matter, and the structure as a whole can be built upright, lying down, or upside-down. The wither spawns at the base soul sand/soil.
On death, the wither always drops a Nether star . In Java Edition , it drops 50 XP XP only when killed by a player or tamed wolf . In Bedrock Edition , it always drops 50 XP XP no matter how it dies.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A Nether star, when dropped by a wither:
When spawned, the wither switches colors between black and blue as its health bar fills up. While in this state, the wither is invulnerable and neither moves nor attacks. When this state ends after 11 seconds or 220 game ticks, the wither creates a large explosion centered on itself, destroying nearby blocks and dealing tons of damage to nearby players and other entities .
It is the largest individual explosion that the player can cause in Java Edition without commands, with a blast power of 7, more than that of a charged creeper or an end crystal . It is accompanied by a global sound event (a sound that is played for everyone, no matter how far away they are from the wither‌ [ JE only ] [2] ). After this, the wither attacks nearby mobs and can take damage.
In Java Edition , the wither's health is 300 HP × 150 , regardless of difficulty .
In Bedrock Edition , wither's health depends on difficulty:
The wither is immune to fire , lava , drowning , and freezing . Like other undead mobs, the wither is harmed by the Instant Health effect and healed by the Instant Damage effect as well as affected by weapons with the Smite enchantment. It is immune to all other status effects , and cannot be damaged by other undead mobs.
Upon taking damage, the wither breaks all blocks within a 3×4×3 area around it, including blast-resistant blocks like obsidian , crying obsidian , and ancient debris , dropping them as items if possible. The wither is the only mob in the game that can destroy obsidian. (See Tutorial:Obsidian farming )
The wither cannot break the following blocks:
In Java Edition , these blocks are listed under the wither_immune tag .
The wither's block-breaking behavior makes suffocation ineffective under most circumstances. However, the blocks listed above, as well as some natural structures that include them (like the exit portal ), can be used to suffocate the wither due to their wither immunity.
The wither is hostile toward all mobs except:
Armadillos are afraid of withers (and other undead mobs) and hide in their shell if a wither is nearby.
If the wither is idle, it simply hovers and is unable to gain altitude. On Normal or Hard difficulty , it fires blue skulls in random directions until it finds a target.
The color of the wither's bossbar depends on the edition: dark purple in Java Edition or light purple in Bedrock Edition . It appears whenever a player is within the vicinity of a wither. All withers display a boss bar on the screen, with a limit of five boss bars. A renamed wither displays its changed name above its boss bar.
In Java Edition , the fog around a player darkens when a wither is loaded. In Bedrock Edition , the effects from thunderstorms are applied; on Fancy graphics the sky darkens and the clouds turn black, and with Vibrant Visuals all environmental effects get darker and more brown/yellow.
Additionally, the wither's side heads shoot targets slightly slower than the main head. The interval for smaller heads is 2–3 seconds, while the main head's always 2.​ [ more information needed ]
When one of the wither's side heads does not have a target, it locks onto a target randomly within line of sight and attempts to shoot a skull. Each head can lock onto different targets. When it has a target, it fires a black wither skull toward the target every 2–3 seconds. If the side head fails to fire a skull for 9.5–17.2 seconds, or the wither is damaged faster than 12 tick intervals, it fires a blue skull at a random direction. Each head has its own separate wither skull cooldowns. If reloaded, the side heads could possibly shoot at 7.5–17.2 seconds after reloading instead.
Every tick the wither gets processed:
When the wither is damaged, the blue skull counters increase by +3 . This increment occurs even if the wither is under its invulnerability timer and cannot lose health — the event is still treated as valid for the counter. The 12‑tick threshold and the 2–3 second/9.5–17.2 second intervals are calculated from the wither's processing.
The wither has different spawn and death animations, both of which involve the wither exploding. With Vibrant Visuals , the eyes and mouths of both the wither and its skulls are emissive, and during spawning, shooting, or explosions the blue texture is emissive. The charge overlay below half health is also emissive.
Upon noticing a player or mob , the wither flies to a random location horizontally near the target, sometimes strafing a few blocks before settling, then hovers in place. It always attempts to be above the player's reaching distance (about 4 blocks). It shoots 3 black wither skulls and one blue wither skull before flying to another location. The time between each shot decreases when the wither reaches 500 HP × 250 and 400 HP × 200 . At half health it fires skulls at the original rate, then once again shoots faster at 200 HP × 100 and 100 HP × 50 . On Normal difficulty or higher, if the wither has targeted an entity but cannot find a location to pathfind to, it shoots random blue skulls in a random direction along with the skulls directed toward the target.
A blue wither skull can be deflected by hitting it or using a projectile. If a deflected blue wither skull hits the wither, the wither takes damage.
At half health, it crashes into the ground causing a large explosion that spawns 3 wither skeletons (except on Easy difficulty), as well as gaining wither armor. It then sometimes dashes into the ground destroying all the blocks around it, until it goes down approximately 40 blocks or reaches a block it cannot break.
Instead of flying to a random location, the wither moves by dashing toward its target, destroying blocks and damaging players or mobs in its path. When dashing, the wither pauses and tilts its body completely horizontal before moving at a high speed. It continues firing wither skulls like before, dashing after every second volley.
The wither's dash ability breaks all blocks in a 6x8x6 volume around it, rounded to the south-east if required. Despite the wither being able to destroy obsidian with blue skulls, the wither cannot dash through it.
A wither retains its anti-projectile armor after regenerating over 1/2 of its total HP, though it disappears after the game is restarted. [5]
Wither roses always drop as an item when the wither kills a mob. Wither roses are dropped even when the game rule doMobLoot is set to false . [6] The wither rose inflicts the Wither effect for a couple of seconds when stepped on.
On Easy difficulty, the wither does not inflict the wither effect or summon wither skeletons.
When attacking, the wither rapidly fires explosive projectiles called wither skulls, which look similar to its own heads, at its target. There are two types of wither skulls: a fast-moving black one, and a slower blue one.
If either type of wither skull hits a player or mob, it does 8 HP damage on Normal difficulty. It also inflicts Wither II for 10 seconds on Normal difficulty and 40 seconds on Hard, which turns the player's hearts black ( ) and drains health, similarly to Poison . However, unlike Poison, it can kill the player.
Like other status effects , the Wither effect can be cured by drinking milk .
In Bedrock Edition and Legacy Console Edition , the blue skull can be deflected by hitting it with an empty hand, weapon, tool, throwable projectiles such as tridents, arrows, snowballs , and throwable potions and explosions. Deflected blue skulls can damage the wither if it hits the body, but not the heads. Killing a wither with a blue skull drops a wither rose as it is considered to be killed by a wither.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Withers have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Wither skulls have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Wither" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Skeletons are common undead hostile mobs that perform ranged attacks with a bow , shooting arrows from a distance. They are most commonly found in the Overworld at night or in dark locations, but also spawn in the Nether in soul sand valleys , and occasionally in Nether fortresses . They are an important source of bones and arrows , which they drop upon death.
Skeletons may naturally spawn in the Overworld in groups of four‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 1-2‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] above solid blocks at a light level of 0, except in mushroom fields , the deep dark , and trial chambers ; they may continue to spawn in these places through other means like spawner blocks.
Spiders and cave spiders ‌ [ BE only ] have a 1% chance to spawn with a skeleton riding them, creating a spider jockey .
Four skeleton horsemen spawn when a skeleton horse trap is triggered, typically during a thunderstorm. The skeletons ride on skeleton horses and are equipped with enchanted bows and iron helmets . In Java Edition , they have damage immunity for 3 seconds after spawning.
Skeletons spawn commonly in soul sand valley biomes in groups of 4‌ [ JE only ] or 1–2‌ [ BE only ] . However, due to the spawn cost system. skeletons have a lower population density in soul sand valleys than zombified piglins have in Nether wastes (i.e. there are much fewer skeletons in a given area).
In Nether fortresses , there is a 20% chance that a skeleton spawns in place of a wither skeleton .
Skeletons in the Nether spawn at the light level of 7 and below.
Skeletons spawn from 25% of the monster spawners found in monster rooms .
Regular skeletons have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "ranged" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
Many skeletons are also replaced by their variants: strays in snowy biomes, parched in desert biomes, bogged in swamp and mangrove swamp biomes, and wither skeletons in Nether fortress structures in the Nether .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A skeleton always drops any equipment it picked up. A skeleton also has a random chance to drop each piece of naturally spawned equipment, including its bow , if it is killed by a player or tamed wolf . The chance to drop a naturally spawned piece of equipment is 8.5% without Looting , 9.5% with Looting I, 10.5% with Looting II, and 11.5% with Looting III.
Skeletons drop 5 XP experience points when killed by a player or tamed wolf, and an additional 1–3 XP for each piece of naturally spawned equipment, including their bow. The random amount dropped by each piece is independent of the amounts dropped by the other pieces.
Skeletons chase players , baby turtles , and iron golems they see within 16 blocks, climbing stairs or ladders , navigating mazes and traversing other complex obstacles to get within shooting range. Despite being associated to iron golems , villagers and wandering traders are ignored by skeletons. However, a skeleton can retaliate if a firework rocket set by a villager hits it.
When within 15 blocks of a target, with a clear line of sight, a skeleton starts shooting arrows , once every 3 seconds on Easy and Normal difficulties or once every 2 seconds on Hard difficulty. If the player leaves the 15-block radius, skeletons wait for some seconds with the bow charged, shooting the moment the player comes within range again. Their detection range is reduced by 50% if a skeleton skull is worn by the player. This stacks with sneaking and the Invisibility effect.
The skeleton's accuracy is based on the world difficulty . Skeletons have an "error" of 10 on Easy, 6 on Normal and 2 on Hard. This is compared to the player's lack of accuracy of 1 . To account for gravity, skeletons aim 0.2 blocks higher for every horizontal block of range to the target.
Skeletons have infinite durability on their bows, and can shoot an infinite amount of arrows. Arrows shot by skeletons cannot be picked up from the ground.
Skeleton behavior varies between the game editions:
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition
In most cases, if a skeleton's arrow hits a neutral or hostile mob that has not yet been attacked by the player, the mob attacks the skeleton. When a skeleton is attacked by another mob (including another skeleton), it attacks that mob, reorienting on the player once the mob is dead. Skeletons flee from wolves . A skeleton runs from a chasing wolf until the wolf deals damage, after which the skeleton turns to shoot at the wolf that successfully attacked it.
Skeletons sink in water and cannot swim , but do not drown .
If a skeleton is inside of powder snow for 7 seconds (140 game ticks ), it begins shaking. After another 15 seconds (300 game ticks ), it converts into a stray . A newly-converted stray always has full health even if converted from a damaged skeleton. The converted stray keeps any items worn or held when it was a skeleton. Only skeletons can become strays; bogged , parched , or wither skeletons cannot be converted. The process is similar to when a husk turns into a zombie or when a zombie turns into a drowned if it stays underwater for too long.
If spawned with a weapon other than a bow or no weapon at all (which can be spawned with commands such as / summon skeleton ~ ~ ~ {equipment:{mainhand:{id:"iron_sword",count:1}}} , or / summon skeleton ~ ~ ~ {} ), or it picks up a weapon other than a bow, a skeleton charges at a player with arms outstretched and deals damage by touch, similar to a wither skeleton.
A skeleton holding a tipped arrow or spectral arrow ‌ [ Java Edition only ] in its off-hand always shoots that type of arrow, and the arrow held is not consumed.
If a skeleton kills a creeper , the creeper drops a music disc , randomly selected from 13 , cat , blocks , chirp , far , mall , mellohi , stal , strad , ward , 11 , and wait .
When the moon can no longer be seen (Dawn) and the sun is above 15°, skeletons can burn. Burning is suppressed when the skeleton is:
Transparent and translucent blocks, including glass and ice , do not prevent them from burning.‌ [ JE only ]
Unlike zombies , skeletons seek out shelter during the day, and remain under it while attacking.
Being an undead mob, they are:
Some spawned skeletons have the ability to pick up dropped items from the ground. Unlike zombies, however, they pick up only weapons or armor. If a picked up item is armor , a carved pumpkin or a mob head , a skeleton equips itself with the item. If the picked up item is a weapon , the skeleton uses the item as a melee weapon. In Bedrock Edition , skeletons can also pick up and equip illager banners worn in their chest slot. [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ]
Skeletons spawn already armed with bows , which may be enchanted . The chances of that event are listed below. If a skeleton spawns wearing multiple pieces of armor, the armor is never mismatched (all pieces are made of the same material) except if it is spawned as part of a skeleton trap, in which case only the iron helmet may not match the rest of the armor.
On Halloween , skeletons may spawn wearing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern . They do not drop this, even when killed with Looting.
If a skeleton does spawn with armor, the chances of specific armor are as follows:
If a skeleton does spawn with an armor, the order in which they receive armor pieces is as follows (from most likely to least likely): helmet; helmet and chestplate; helmet, chestplate and leggings; full set.
The chances of it being of a particular material are:
In Java Edition , a skeleton's armor does not lose durability upon taking damage. Helmets (not blocks like carved pumpkins ) on skeletons can break if the skeleton is exposed to daylight. In Bedrock Edition , any armor piece is damaged as if the player is wearing it. [verify]
When picking up items, skeletons prefer weapons that deal more damage without considering enchantments . They also prefer items with NBT data over those without, and weapons that are less damaged.
For weapon types, skeletons prefer bows over melee weapons . Skeletons won't take crossbows , tridents or maces whatsoever, as long as they have any other item in hand.
For armor , skeletons prefer armor that give more armor points than the armor to replace. Skeletons accept given cosmetic wearables ( heads and carved pumpkins ), as long as they aren't wearing a helmet .
If the skeleton accepts a given equipment, the skeleton drops the old one, with the same chance as if killed with Looting I, in favor of the new one. Any skeleton that spawns with equipment (picked-up items do not count) gives 1–3 extra experience points per item.
Skeletons can pick up and equip shields in the other hand, but they cannot use it to block damage.
If multiple viable items exist, the skeleton endlessly picks up and drops the items. [3]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Skeletons have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
When skeletons catch fire in the daylight, they hide in the nearest shadow or body of water. Skeletons also avoid falls, fire , lava , and cactus .
Issues relating to "Skeleton" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A spider is a neutral wall-climbing arthropod (arachnid) that attacks players on sight in dark areas by jumping and biting them. Spiders drop string and spider eyes upon death.
Spiders can spawn in the Overworld at a light level of 0 within a 3×1×3 space centered on an opaque block. In Java Edition , the block above the spawning space cannot be a full solid block, including transparent ones such as leaves or glass , but non-full blocks, such as soul sand or slabs , are allowed. [1] Spiders do not spawn in mushroom fields and deep dark biomes, and they are replaced by cave spiders in sulfur caves . In Bedrock Edition , spiders also do not spawn in rivers , frozen rivers , and snowy plains and do not spawn in groups.
Spiders spawn from monster spawners found in monster rooms (25% chance) as well as in secret rooms surrounded by cobwebs in woodland mansions .
Spiders have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "melee" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
Spiders occasionally spawn with status effects in Hard difficulty. For each pack spawn , there is a (10× clamped regional difficulty )% chance of the game applying a status effect. This does not apply to cave spiders . These spiders can spawn with one of the following effects:
The effect is then applied to all entities within the pack, lasting forever. If the Invisibility status effect is applied to a spider, its eyes remain visible.
There is a 1% chance for a spider to spawn with a skeleton riding it, forming a spider jockey . In Bedrock Edition , the skeleton has an 80% chance to be replaced by a stray , bogged , parched , or wither skeleton in the biomes where they spawn. A spider jockey can also be spawned by the following commands:
The skeleton controls how both mobs move. The spider can still climb walls, but the skeleton suffocates if the spider runs into a ceiling. The skeleton and the spider cannot damage each other. If they come into contact with water, they are separated.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
5 XP experience orbs are dropped by a spider when it is killed by a player or tamed wolf .
A spider stays hostile toward the player or an iron golem as long as the light level immediately around the spider is 11 or less; otherwise, it does not attack unless attacked first. If a spider chases its target into an area where the light level immediately around the spider is above 11, it returns to a neutral state. However, spiders pursue targets regardless of the light level in retaliation to an attack. In Bedrock Edition , spiders become hostile to the player after a short while after noticing them, whereas in Java Edition they become hostile instantly.
Despite being hostile to iron golems in light below 12 , villagers and wandering traders are ignored by spiders, regardless of light level. However, a spider can retaliate if a firework rocket set by a villager hits it.
Hostile spiders see up to 16 blocks, and pounce at close range.
Spiders can climb up over solid blocks that are not magma blocks ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , but do not climb on underside surfaces. A spider pursuing a player can detect a player through blocks. If a spider cannot find an ideal path to the player due to a wall barring the way, it approaches as close as possible to the player's position and proceeds to climb the wall vertically until it gets to the top, even if it loses its aggression toward the player. When a spider loses its aggression, it continues moving forward blindly for 2 seconds; this behavior causes the spider to climb up any walls in its path.
Spiders flee from armadillos that are not in a rolled-up state.
In Java Edition , if a spider tries to go through the world border , it starts climbing the world border instead.
Spider can also climb on full boats , full boats with chests and shulkers .
Even though normal spiders do not inflict the Poison status effect , they are immune to it. They are also immune to the slowing applied to most mobs when walking through cobwebs .
Spiders flip onto their backs when they die, unlike most other mobs, which fall to one side.
The Bane of Arthropods enchantment inflicts Slowness IV and deals more damage to spiders.
When pathfinding, spiders often get stuck in corners and cannot be provoked.
Unlike other neutral mobs, spiders don't count towards the AngryAt tag. [2] [3] [4]
The regular texture of spiders makes the red eyes appear bright in contrast to the dark body, but with Vibrant Visuals , the eyes are actually emissive, making them easily distinguishable in dark areas where they spawn.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride a spider that was not spawned as a spider jockey, to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Spiders have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Spider" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A cave spider is a smaller spider variant that spawns in sulfur caves. It behaves similarly to the normal spider, but has less health and inflicts Poison with its attacks if the game difficulty is not set to "Easy".
Cave spiders replace all spider spawns in sulfur caves .
Cave spiders spawn from monster spawners in mineshafts at a light level of 0. These monster spawners are surrounded by cobwebs in corridors.
Cave spiders have a 25% chance to be selected as the "small melee" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
There is a 1% chance for a cave spider to spawn with a skeleton riding it, forming a cave spider jockey . The skeleton has an 80% chance to be replaced by a stray , bogged , parched , or wither skeleton in the biomes where they spawn. Similar to regular spiders, the skeleton controls how both mobs move. Cave spider jockeys can fit through smaller gaps than spider jockeys.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cave spiders inherit their behavior from spiders :
They have some distinctions from regular spiders:
Being arthropods , they are weak against weapons with the Bane of Arthropods enchantment.
Unlike other neutral mobs, cave spiders don't count towards the AngryAt tag. [2] [3] [4]
The red eyes of cave spiders are emissive with Vibrant Visuals , making them easily distinguishable in the dark caves where they spawn.
On Normal or Hard difficulty , cave spiders inflict Poison upon attacking. [5] On Normal difficulty, the Poison lasts for 7 seconds and causes 6 HP damage. On Hard difficulty, it lasts for 15 seconds and causes 12 HP × 6 . Poison damage is not taken when the player 's health is at 1 HP .
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride a cave spider that was not spawned as a spider jockey, to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cave spiders have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Cave Spider" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Slimes are cube-shaped hostile mobs that spawn deep underground in particular chunks , aboveground in swamps , or when an Oozing -affected entity dies. They move by jumping, chasing after their targets, and usually dealing damage on touch. Slimes spawn in different sizes, and larger ones split into smaller ones on death. Slimes are a major source of slimeballs .
Slimes spawn naturally in 3 sizes: small, medium, and large. A fourth size, known as semi-large , only spawns from trial spawners and the oozing mob effect [verify] . Slimes have an NBT tag, [Byte] Size , which determines their size. Small, medium, and big slimes have their Size set to 0 , 1 , and 3 respectively. Using the / summon or / data commands, a slime can be given any Size in the range from 0 to 126 (inclusive). [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
A slime needs a space of 2.08×2.08 ×2.08 blocks to spawn, which must be clear of solid and liquid obstructions. When a slime attempts to spawn, the game checks to see if the space requirement is followed. Therefore, small and medium slimes are not able to spawn in 2-block tall areas even though it would normally be enough room for other small mobs. Any block within the space, even a glass pane , can prevent slimes from spawning.
The random distribution of slime sizes is affected by regional difficulty : chances range from 33% for each size at the low difficulty to 16% small, 33% medium, and 50% big with higher difficulty.
Slimes can spawn in swamps and mangrove swamps between the altitudes of Y=51 and Y=69 (inclusive) when the provided light level is 7 or less. They spawn most often on a full moon , and never on a new moon.
More precisely, the game checks two factors:
If these conditions are met and the altitude is acceptable, there is a 50% chance of spawning a slime.
The light level requirement for slime spawning in swamps is different from that of most hostile mobs, which spawn only at light level 0. [1] This allows slimes in swamps to spawn in dimly-lit areas where most hostile mobs can't, allowing swamp-based slime farms to be built.
Slimes spawn in the Overworld in slime chunks below the layer of Y=40 in groups of four‌ [ JE only ] or individually‌ [ BE only ] , regardless of the lighting or weather conditions.
About 1 ⁄ 10 of all chunks are generated as slime chunks, but they are not determined randomly. An algorithm is used to determine whether each chunk is a slime chunk. In Java Edition , whether a chunk at a particular set of coordinates becomes a slime chunk is determined by the world's seed . In Bedrock Edition , however, they are generated at the same coordinates in every world.
In Java Edition , slime chunks are determined pseudo-randomly by combining their chunk coordinates with the seed of the world .
This Java code can be used to print a message to the terminal indicating whether one specific chunk is a slime chunk.
The chunk coordinates and the world seed are combined to make a specific RNG seed to generate a random integer between 0 and 9 (inclusive). If the random integer is 0, then the chunk is a slime chunk. World coordinates can be converted to chunk coordinates by dividing by 16 and then rounding down. The world coordinates and the chunk coordinates are both 32-bit integers (instances of int ).
In Bedrock Edition , the algorithm does not depend on the world seed, so the chunks that slimes can naturally spawn in inhabit the same coordinates for every world. [2]
Each trial chambers structure has a 25% chance to select slimes as the "small melee" mob for its trial spawners . This means only about 25% of trial chambers contain slime spawners within them.
Slimes from trial spawners spawn in sizes 1 (medium) and 2 (semi-large), unlike slimes that spawn in slime chunks and swamps, which come in sizes 0 , 1 and 3 respectively. [3]
During ominous trials , each ominous trial spawner has a 1 ⁄ 7 chance to dispense lingering potions of Oozing, which spawn two medium slimes upon an affected entity's death. Any type of ominous trial spawner can dispense Oozing potions, regardless of the mob type it spawns.
If an entity inflicted with the Oozing effect dies, two medium-sized slimes appear at its death location.
In Java Edition , Oozing only spawns slimes in a 5×5×5 cube up to the maximum entity cramming count (default to 24).
From a single large slime, a player can expect an experience and slimeball yield of 12–28 and 0–32, respectively. The average yield from a single large slime is usually around 19 experience and 9 slimeballs .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
1 XP when killed by the player
Slimes move by hopping, which they do every 10 to 30 ticks (0.5 to 1.5 seconds). They can swim in water and climb ladders and scaffolding. Unlike other mobs, slimes continue moving when no players are nearby. Their exact routine is as follows:
The slime searches for a player (or, failing that, an iron golem ) within 16 blocks (spherical) distance.
Unlike most mobs , slimes do not pathfind toward their target, always approaching their target in a straight line without avoiding environmental hazards such as lava , cactus or dangerous falls. This means they can easily get stuck in corners or behind walls, not knowing how to circumvent them. This behavior is shared by magma cubes .
A slime's maximum health is equal to its size squared, and its dimensions are 0.51 blocks times its size in each dimension. When a slime attacks, it deals damage equal to its size, except for size 0 (smallest) slimes, which do no damage, and do not prevent sleeping . Because small slimes still have a hostile AI, they continuously try to attack the player.
A slime's jump distance also depends on its size; a slime jumps a distance slightly farther than its length. When landing, a number (8 times the slime's size) of slime particles appear. Regardless of size, slimes always jump 1 block high.
When a slime larger than 0 dies, it spawns 2–4 new slimes equivalent to its size divided by 2, rounding down. A slime that was named with a name tag produces smaller slimes with the same name when it dies.
Slimes continuously damage all players, snow golems ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , and iron golems they collide with (although damage immunity reduces the actual damage to 1 attack every half second), unlike other mobs that damage only those targets they specifically attack [4] and as a result they deal damage about twice as quickly as other mobs.
Slimes in water attempt to swim to the surface if possible. If forced to stay submerged, they eventually drown, splitting into smaller slimes that drown and finally drop slimeballs.
Slimes are immune to Oozing .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Slimes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Note: This video is from 2012. Since then, slimes spawning in swamps has been added to the game.
Issues relating to "Slime" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Witches are hostile mobs that use potions in combat , using various splash potions for offense and drinkable potions for defense.
A witch may spawn in the Overworld above opaque blocks at a light level of 0 in all biomes except for mushroom fields and deep dark . In Bedrock Edition , witches also do not spawn in rivers , frozen rivers , and snowy plains . Witches always spawn individually. Witches are the only mobs that can spawn in the small area around a swamp hut.
Swamp biomes feature swamp huts , which spawn a witch and a black cat inside during world generation , and both never despawn. After world generation, only witches can spawn in the hut, provided that the entire hut is inside a swamp biome.
In Java Edition , only witches spawn in the 7×7×9 volume that is the hut, which is the size of the roof and one block over the porch, from one level below the floor of the hut to two blocks above the roof.
In Bedrock Edition , the hut has a hardcoded spawn spot on which witches spawn: the spawn spot is the same for every hut.
Some witches always spawn as part of raids starting from wave 4 in Bedrock Edition or wave 3 or 4 in Java Edition depending on the world difficulty .
A villager transforms into a witch when lightning strikes within four blocks from it. A witch transformed from a villager does not despawn naturally and cannot be changed back into a villager. This witch attacks the player with its potions even if the player traded with it before.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A witch has an 8.5% chance of dropping a potion , if it is killed while drinking it and kill credit is given to a player or tamed wolf . The chance is increased by 1% for every level of Looting. The following potions can be drank by a witch and can therefore be dropped:
5 XP experience is dropped when kill credit is given to a player or tamed wolf.
A witch is occasionally surrounded by purple morning star-shaped particles. Every second, there is a 1.5% chance for 10 to 44 ornamental particles to appear above its head, representing shining stars named “witch” in Java Edition or “witchspell” in Bedrock Edition .
In Java Edition , any witch is given the Glowing effect for three seconds when the bell block is rung within 32 blocks of it, regardless of whether it participates in raids or not. A witch is neither an illager nor a villager , although it resembles both.
A witch cannot use housing or the equipment in their swamp huts , and unlike villagers and illagers, they cannot open doors .
Witches don't attack villagers and wandering traders when participating in raids, although their potions can hit one by accident. Witches that participate in a raid seek out illagers and ravagers to throw splash potions of Regeneration with a duration of 45 seconds near them or Instant Health if they have a low health of 4 HP points or less.
The poison , instant damage , evoker fangs , warden's sonic boom , and Thorns Enchantment magical sources are 85% less effective against witches in Java Edition and 95% less effective in Bedrock Edition .
A witch pursues the player within 16‌ [ JE only ] /10‌ [ BE only ] blocks and uses potions of the first level in combat , throwing splash potions offensively and drinking potions defensively. The targeting range increases to 64 blocks if attacked.‌ [ BE only ] [verify] These potions are the same as ones obtainable through brewing , with the same duration. A witch has an infinite stock of potions, even when transformed from a villager or not having had any potions equipped in their inventory . Each potion chosen by the witch depends on the circumstance and is thrown within ten blocks and in a three-second interval.
A witch can choose to equip and drink a potion each game tick ( 1 ⁄ 20 second) if it is not already drinking a potion. Drinking the potion takes 1.6 seconds [2] and slows down its moving speed a little. The witch does not attack during this time.
Witches still can be killed through suffocation , cacti , or wither roses , but due to their frequent use of potions of Healing, this requires constant damage output for 40–50 seconds. Additionally, witches cannot drown or die from fire unless they already are at low health. Witches usually die in lava, even at full health, when drinking a potion of Healing first instead of potion of Fire Resistance .
When in a raid, if all the villagers in a village die or all the village beds are destroyed, witches jump and play unique sound effects in commemoration to their victory.
In Bedrock Edition , witches attack iron golems and snow golems or any mob that attacks it, including other witches and illagers, throwing harmful splash potions.
In Java Edition , witches drink a beneficial potion, often an instant-health healing potion, when they are attacked by evoker fangs , illager mobs or harming potions from other witches and join an illager patrol if sufficiently near to the pillager , vindicator , evoker and illusioner patrol captain mobs. Even though witches do not attack villagers or wandering traders during raids, the witches that join a patrol are hostile toward villagers, wandering traders and iron golems in the patrol sight.
With Vibrant Visuals , the green "lamp" in the witch's hat is emissive similar to spider and enderman eyes.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Witches have entity data associated with them that contains various properties. Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Witch" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Phantoms are flying undead hostile mobs that spawn in the night sky when the player has not slept in a bed or straw bed ​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] or died for at least 3 in-game days. They attack by diving at the player from the sky to bite them.
Phantoms spawn unless the game rule spawn_phantoms ‌ [ JE only ] or doInsomnia ‌ [ BE only ] is set to false . The spawning mechanics differ between Java and Bedrock editions. In both editions, they spawn in the Overworld above a player whose "Time Since Last Rest" statistic is at least 1 hour (72000 ticks or 3 in-game days). [verify] This statistic is reset when the player dies or enters a bed or straw bed ​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] . This does not require skipping the night. Furthermore, the player must not have a block overhead that blocks light in any way; for example, leaves prevent phantoms from spawning as they have a light opacity of 2, but glass does not, as its light opacity is 0. Cherry planks work because they cannot be seen through. Phantoms do not spawn above players in Spectator mode, but they do spawn above players in Creative mode. [2]
Phantom spawning is similar to other monsters spawning: the spawn location must have a light level of 7 or less, and spawns are limited by the monster population cap. Phantoms are also subject to a density cap of 5. Phantom spawn attempts are made on surface blocks throughout the same spawn radius as other monsters. However, when a phantom spawn attempt succeeds, the phantom appears somewhere in a 21×15×21 cube centered 28 blocks above the player instead of at the block where the spawn attempt occurred.
This means phantoms can also spawn during daytime as long as there are suitable blocks around players who are directly below the sky. The number of phantoms spawned is 1-2 in Easy difficulty, 1-3 in Normal , and 1-4 in Hard . Blocks that can spawn phantoms needs to count as surface, that is, they have to be the highest spawnable block having no solid blocks directly above them. A solid floor under a roof of leaves, with at least 8 air blocks in between, meets this criteria.
Phantoms attempt to spawn every 1–2 minutes . They spawn only if it is night or a thunderstorm is happening, the player is above sea level (y=64) with sky visible directly above (cobwebs do not block this), and the local difficulty is greater than a randomly chosen value between 0.0 and 3.0. The formula x −72000 ⁄ x represents the chance of a successful spawn, where x is the number of ticks since the player last entered a bed or straw bed​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] or died. This roughly comes to a 1 ⁄ 4 (25.0%) chance on day 4, a 2 ⁄ 5 (40.0%) chance on day 5, a 3 ⁄ 6 ( 1 ⁄ 2 ) (50.0%) chance on day 6, 4 ⁄ 7 (about 57.1%) chance on day 7, and so on.
If all conditions are met, a group of phantoms attempts to spawn 20–34 blocks above the player, and off to the side by a Chebyshev distance of up to 10 blocks. The number of phantoms spawned is 1-2 in Easy difficulty, 1-3 in Normal , and 1-4 in Hard . Phantoms can spawn inside buildings, if the player is outside and the building is both near enough and the building has a large enough cavity for them to spawn inside.
Phantoms count toward the hostile mob cap, but they do not adhere to it when spawning. [3] Their spawning mechanic is based on the location of players in the world rather than by chance, unlike regular mob spawning . Phantom spawning is completely independent of biome, meaning they can spawn in biomes that normally prevent hostile mob spawning such as mushroom fields [4] , deep dark [5] and the void . [6] The number of phantoms that spawn indirectly increase in number every consecutive night a player has not entered a bed or straw bed​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] , as there is a higher chance that phantoms spawn every time there is a spawn attempt. They then stop spawning when the player lies down in bed or straw bed​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
When idle, phantoms fly around in a roughly circular pattern within 15 to 25 blocks of a player horizontally and within 24 to 35 blocks of a player vertically. They leave a trail of gray smoke while they fly. Their movement speed is one of the fastest of any mob, up to 20 blocks per second. They have a large search radius, targeting and following players from 64 blocks away. Once every 10-20 seconds‌ [ BE only ] or every 8-12 seconds‌ [ JE only ] , they swoop in to attack. If stopped or hurt during this action, the phantom retreats back to its original elevation with sky visibility. When a path to its original elevation is obstructed by a block, the phantom continues attempting to return to its original elevation until it either attacks or moves out from under the block. In the case of spawning under a high glass ceiling, phantoms spawn, immediately attack, and then fly up to the glass (even despawning in the process if they get far enough). Phantoms attack exposed players in beds or straw beds​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] , but do not attack players in creative mode . Phantoms switch targets if a player has spawned them but another player qualifies to be attacked, however they are neutralized if the spawning or targeted player resets their timer.
Phantoms can move through water at their normal speed and do not drown.
A phantom's body disappears when under the Invisibility effect, but its eyes and smoke particles are still visible.
Cats hiss at phantoms that are currently attacking players, and phantoms try to stay at least 16 blocks away from them, ignoring blocks obstructing line of sight. In Bedrock Edition , phantoms also avoid ocelots in the same manner.
Being an undead mob, they are:
Like zombies and skeletons , phantoms burn in sunlight. They burn even when equipped with helmets through commands. [7] Phantoms leave a trail of particles behind each wing.
The eyes of phantoms are emissive with Vibrant Visuals .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Phantoms have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Phantom" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Drowned are common neutral underwater zombie variants that spawn in oceans , rivers , and dripstone caves , or when zombies drown. They primarily attack through melee attacks, but may also come armed with tridents that they can throw at range. A baby drowned is referred to as a gurgle . [1]
Drowned spawn naturally at water blocks that emit light level of 0 and internal sky light level being 7 and below in all ocean biomes, aquifers in the dripstone caves biome, and river biomes. They spawn at higher rates in rivers and dripstone caves than in ocean biomes.
In Java Edition , drowned spawn individually inside flowing water or source water that is 2 blocks or taller (this can include waterlogged blocks or bubble columns). In ocean biomes and dripstone caves, drowned spawn at Y < 58; this restriction does not apply to rivers meaning they can also spawn during the day in that biome as long as it is deep enough for the sky light level to reach 7 and below.
In Bedrock Edition , drowned spawn in groups of 2-4 in oceans , frozen rivers , and dripstone caves while they spawn individually in rivers inside flowing water or source water of any depth, but they spawn at higher rates in water that is 2 blocks or taller.​ [ more information needed ] They spawn only on the surface that is on the highest spawnable block at any given X, Z coordinate. They count toward the monster population control cap and also have their own density caps of 5 in oceans and 2 in rivers. They can spawn during the day as long as the water is deep enough for the sky light level to reach 7 and below.
Drowned have a chance to spawn with either a trident or a fishing rod in their main hand, and occasionally with a nautilus shell in their offhand. In Java Edition , when spawned as a gurgle they also have a small chance to spawn riding a chicken , creating a drowned chicken jockey . They are the only Overworld zombie variant within the game that cannot spawn naturally with any armor .
Drowned spawn during the generation of certain ocean ruin structures. These drowned do not naturally despawn unless the world is set to Peaceful difficulty.
When spawning mounted on a zombie nautilus, the zombie nautilus is also persistent (does not despawn).
If a zombie 's head (not the legs) is submerged in water continuously for 30 seconds, it begins the process of converting into a drowned. The zombie begins shaking, similar to the effect seen while a zombie villager is being cured or a skeleton is converting into a stray . At this point, the process cannot be stopped, and 15 seconds later the zombie becomes a drowned. The drowned appears with full health even if the previous zombie did not.
In Bedrock Edition only, an item being held or worn by a zombie when it transforms into a drowned, whether it was picked up or naturally equipped, is automatically dropped with an 100% drop rate at full durability . In Java Edition , the converted drowned keeps the equipped items.
Only normal zombies can transform into drowned, while zombie villagers and zombified piglins cannot. For husks , they first transform into a regular zombie, and subsequently convert to a drowned in the usual fashion. The zombie that is converted from a husk always has full health even if converted from a damaged husk.
When an adult drowned spawns outside of ( frozen ) river biomes, either naturally or as part of a structure, and is wielding a trident in its main hand, it has a 50% chance to spawn riding a zombie nautilus , i.e. as a zombie nautilus jockey .
On Hard difficulty , all drowned have a 0-10% chance to spawn other drowned as reinforcements when receiving damage while targeting an entity . Additionally, up to 5% of drowned spawn as leaders, getting a 50-75% boost to that chance. Reinforcements can only spawn in at least 2 block tall water.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Adult drowned drop 5 XP and an additional 1–3 XP per naturally-spawned equipment if killed by a player, axolotl or tamed wolf. Gurgles drop 12 XP and an additional 1–3 XP per naturally-spawned equipment if killed by a player, axolotl or tamed wolf .
Any picked-up equipment has a 100% chance of dropping, and drops without changing the damage that has accumulated on it.
Java Edition
For naturally-spawned drowned:
A drowned holding a trident or fishing rod has an 8.5% chance to drop it when killed by a player or tamed wolf . The chance is increased by 1% per level of Looting , up to a max of 11.5% with Looting III. This means that killing 8 drowned with tridents without the Looting enchantment or 6 with Looting III, will have a greater than 60% chance of getting a trident.
A drowned holding a nautilus shell always drops it.
Zombies converted to drowned are never equipped with new items. They keep any equipment the zombie had before conversion.
On Halloween, a drowned may spawn wearing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern . However, they do not drop them, even when killed with Looting.
Bedrock Edition
For naturally-spawned drowned:
A drowned holding a trident or fishing rod has a 25% chance to drop it when killed by a player or tamed wolf. This chance is increased by 1% per level of Looting, up to a max of 28% with Looting III. This means that killing 3 drowned with tridents without the Looting enchantment or 2 with Looting III, will have a greater than 50% chance of getting a trident.
For converted drowned:
Zombies converted to drowned are never equipped with tridents. Any equipment the zombie had before conversion is dropped.
Farms that convert zombies into drowned produce all of naturally-spawned equipment dropped by zombies , as well as fishing rods , copper ingots , and (in Bedrock Edition ) nautilus shells .
A drowned farm must be designed to harvest naturally-spawned drowned to produce tridents in all game editions and nautilus shells in Java Edition .
During the day, drowned stay on the floor of the body of water they are in, unless provoked.
If on land during the daytime, drowned seek out nearby water or shade. They sometimes step onto land but quickly return to the water.
Drowned seek out turtle eggs within 10 blocks in Bedrock Edition and 24 blocks in Java Edition . They stomp on turtle eggs until the eggs break. Drowned can even jump over a 1-block gap to reach a turtle egg successfully, even if the egg is raised 1 block higher than the gap. [ verify for Java Edition ]
Drowned are passive‌ [ JE only ] or neutral‌ [ BE only ] during the day if no player in range is touching the water .
They are immune to guardian and elder guardian attacks. They also have a small chance to be immune to knockback when damaged. [2]
Drowned can be damaged by a fully-powered conduit within a distance of 8 blocks.
In Bedrock Edition , drowned can mount and ride any untamed zombie nautilus that they collide with, but they do not actively search for zombie nautiluses to mount. However, 15% of gurgles can actively search for one.
Like spiders and endermen , drowned have eyes (in addition to their noses and mouths) that appear to glow in Bedrock Edition , although they do not produce light. With Vibrant Visuals , all bright parts in the first layer are emissive and glow in the dark.
In Java Edition , drowned are never spawned as part of a zombie siege , but if a drowned naturally spawns nearby, it will join the siege and behave like all other zombies.
They are always hostile toward axolotls . Like other zombie variants, they chase and attack villagers , wandering traders , snow golems ,‌ [ BE only ] baby turtles , and iron golems , but only at night or in dark areas.
If a drowned kills a villager , either with a melee attack or with a thrown trident, the villager has a chance of turning into a zombie villager (a 0% chance on Easy difficulty , a 50% chance on Normal, and a 100% chance on Hard).
During the day, drowned ignore players on land and in boats , only attacking if the player enters the water.
In Java Edition , a drowned is also neutral if it is equipped with a trident during the daytime, only attacking the player if provoked. During the night or in thunderstorms , they become hostile and attack any player or baby turtle they see, without provocation.
Every drowned has a melee attack, and if it spawns with a trident , the trident is used as a ranged weapon . A drowned with a trident can throw it every 1.5 seconds, sending it up to 20 blocks away. Thrown tridents cannot be picked up by the player, just like arrows shot by skeletons . In Bedrock Edition , a drowned with a trident also uses a melee attack if their target is within a 3 blocks distance .​ [ upcoming: JE 26.3 ] They can use this melee attack while mounted on entities, except for zombie nautiluses in Bedrock Edition . [3]
A drowned's trident can be enchanted . The Loyalty , Impaling , and Channeling enchantments work the same as they would for a player, while Riptide has no effect for drowned.
A drowned equipped with a trident continues throwing it at the player even after the player leaves the water, or gets a long distance away. [4] It also attacks any player that attacks it or another drowned. However, it is not provoked by a player killing another drowned in one hit.‌ [ JE only ] [5]
If one drowned is hit by another drowned's thrown trident, the attacked drowned ignores it. ‌ [ JE only ]
Sometimes,​ [ more information needed ] drowned do not immediately become aggressive toward a player when the player first enters the water. However these are not "passive" drowned, but slow or non-movers which more-often will melee attack when the player draws closely.
Up to 10% of drowned spawn with the ability to break wooden and copper doors on Hard difficulty.
Some drowned spawn with the ability to pick up loot that is on the ground. That includes armor and weapons or tools just like regular zombies. Unlike zombies however, they can also pick up tridents, which they always prefer over anything else.
Being an undead mob, they are:
As they are monsters , golden dandelions do not work on gurgles.
Drowned use a swimming animation similar to the player . They use this animation whenever they try to pathfind to a player that is either below or above them; if the player is on the same ground level, the drowned simply walk toward them. Drowned also use this animation if they are tracking a player while they are not standing on a solid block. Their hitbox does not change when using this animation.
If they hold a nautilus shell or anything else in their offhand, their arms are in the same posture as a player's. When attacking, they use the player's attacking animation. Still, they use the same swimming animation when tracking a player underwater.
In Bedrock Edition , 15% of naturally spawned gurgles can start riding a mob and become a jockey when it tries attacking. A jockey mob ridden by a gurgle will adapt to the speed of its rider. A gurgle can ride:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Drowned have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Drowned" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A husk is a variant of the zombie that spawns in deserts . They function similarly to zombies, except they do not burn in sunlight , and they inflict Hunger with their unarmed attacks.
Husks spawn at a light level of 0 in the desert , mostly replacing zombies in these biomes.
In Java Edition , husks spawn directly under the sky in groups of 4 in place of 80% of all zombies and zombie villagers spawned in desert biomes.
In Bedrock Edition , husks spawn on the surface in groups of 2-4 in place of 70% of all zombies and zombie villagers spawned in desert biomes.
When spawning naturally , husks have a 10% chance to spawn as camel husk jockey if they spawn in a space that does not block the collision box required for a camel husk . This can only happen for up to one husk in each spawning pack . This can happen even when the husk spawns as a baby and was supposed to spawn as a chicken jockey . In that case, the chicken is spawned as a "jockey chicken" (i.e. it doesn't lay eggs and can despawn) but the husk spawns riding the camel husk instead.
Husks have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "melee" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
On Hard difficulty , all husks have a 0-10% chance to spawn other husks as reinforcements when receiving damage while targeting an entity . Additionally, up to 5% of husks spawn as leaders, getting a 50-75% boost to that chance. Just like for regular husk spawning, reinforcement husks can only spawn in places with direct sky exposure.
In Java Edition , there is a 5% chance for husks to spawn as babies, and baby husks have a chance to spawn as a chicken jockey .
In Bedrock Edition , 15% of naturally spawned baby husks can start riding a mob and become a jockey after it spawns. A jockey mob ridden by a baby husk adapts to the speed of its rider. A baby husk can ride:
Husks spawn with random values of knockback resistance between 0% and 5%.
Adult husks have a chance to spawn riding a camel husk , along with a parched , whilst holding an iron spear .
Some husks spawn wearing armor or holding weapons, both of which may be enchanted . In addition, husks may also spawn with the ability to pick up loot that is on the ground. The chances of each of these events occurring are listed below. If a husk spawns wearing multiple pieces of armor, the armor is never mismatched (i.e. all pieces are made of the same material). Husks cannot naturally spawn with netherite armor.
If a husk does spawn with armor, the chances of specific armor are as follows:
The chances of it being of a particular material are:
In Java Edition , the armor is not damaged by any damage source; it cannot "wear out" the way player armor does. Unlike other zombies, helmets worn by husks do not break if the husk is exposed to daylight. In Bedrock Edition , any armor piece is damaged as if the player is wearing it. [verify]
Husks also have a natural armor rating of 2 ( ), giving 1.6 to 8% damage reduction from most sources . Husks can also wear mob heads , although they need to be dropped by the player before the husk can pick one up and put it on.
On Halloween , husks in Java Edition may spawn wearing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern . They are never dropped, even when the husks are killed with Looting .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Any picked-up equipment has a 100% chance of dropping and drops with the same damage level it had when picked up.
Husks have an 8.5% chance of dropping their naturally-spawned equipment (other than Halloween pumpkins), with random durability. Each level of Looting increases the chance 1 percentage point (11.5% with Looting III). They cannot drop the diamond swords that they occasionally wield during ominous trials . These items include:
Additionally, in Bedrock Edition , all naturally spawned equipment always drops at full durability when the husk converts to a zombie.
Adult husks drop 5 XP and an additional 1–3 XP per naturally-spawned equipment. Baby husks drop 12 XP .
Like zombies, husks are hostile toward the player, iron golems , villagers , baby turtles , and wandering traders . They pursue these mobs on sight from up to 40 blocks away, as opposed to 16 blocks like most other hostile mobs. If any other mob attacks a husk on purpose, all other husks and zombie variants (except zombified piglins ) within a 67×67×21 to 111×111×21 area become hostile toward the attacker. They attempt to avoid obstacles, including sheer cliffs, water, and lava, and try to find the shortest path to the player.
Husks apply Hunger to any player or mob they hit using a melee attack, unless the husk is holding an item in its main hand or the player blocks the attack with a shield . This effect lasts for 7 × floor ( regional difficulty ) seconds.
Husks are one of the few undead mobs that are immune to burning in sunlight, which allows them to stay around during the day.
Husks have a chance to spawn with the ability to break down doors on Hard difficulty .
Husks seek out any nearby turtle eggs and trample them.
Husks can pick up items if the game rule mobGriefing is set to true, which prevents them from despawning .
Husks attempt to avoid water , only entering it when there is no other path to their target.
A husk that is fully submerged in water for 30 seconds begins converting to a normal zombie , which takes an additional 15 seconds and cannot be stopped even if the husk leaves water. Once this process finishes, the zombie that it becomes has full health even if the husk has been damaged, and may further convert into a drowned if it remains submerged.
In Java Edition , husks are never spawned as part of a zombie siege , but if a husk naturally spawns nearby, it will join the siege and behave like all other zombies.
Husks wielding spears have different attacking behavior. When attacking, they use the spear's charge attack while moving towards their target. They hold the charge through its full duration, using all 3 stages. Once the charge attack has ended or they get too close to their target, they walk away to increase the distance between them and their target before turning around to begin another charge.
Being an undead mob, they are:
As hostile mobs, golden dandelions don't work on baby husks.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks, or drowned may ride an adult husk to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Husks have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Husk" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A stray is a skeleton variant that spawns in various snow-covered biomes . They behave very similarly to skeletons, except they fire tipped arrows of Slowness from their bows and do not freeze in powder snow .
A stray may spawn directly under the sky in snowy plains , or ice spikes , replacing 80% of skeletons. Additionally, a stray may spawn in frozen rivers , frozen oceans , deep frozen oceans , legacy frozen oceans , snowy slopes , jagged peaks and frozen peaks in Bedrock Edition . Strays do not spawn naturally from monster spawners in Java Edition .
When a skeleton is kept inside powder snow for 7 seconds (140 game ticks ), it begins shaking. After another 15 seconds (300 game ticks ), it becomes a stray. A converted stray appears with full health even if the original skeleton did not have full health. Items being held or worn by a skeleton when it becomes a stray remain unchanged. Unlike regular skeletons, bogged and parched do not turn into strays, but take freezing damage instead.
Strays have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "ranged" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
In Bedrock Edition , spiders and cave spiders spawned in biomes where strays can spawn (spiders cannot naturally spawn in snowy plains ) have a 1% chance to spawn as a spider jockey , with an 80% chance of the rider being a stray. In Java Edition , stray spider jockeys cannot spawn naturally, but the skeleton rider can convert into a stray and continue as a stray spider jockey.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Strays behave the same as normal skeletons but make noises with an echoing effect and shoot tipped arrows that inflict Slowness for 30 seconds on any target that they hit. In Bedrock Edition , strays that are underwater use a melee attack that inflicts Slowness. Strays do not take damage from freezing in powder snow, but they are not immune to Slowness. A stray holding a tipped arrow or spectral arrow in its off-hand always shoots that type of arrow instead, and the arrow held is not consumed.
Being an undead mob, they are:
As they are also under the "skeletons" entity type tag , if a stray kills a creeper , the creeper drops a music disc , randomly selected from 13 , cat , blocks , chirp , far , mall , mellohi , stal , strad , ward , 11 , and wait .
Like bogged and parched , the eyes of strays are emissive with Vibrant Visuals .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Strays have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Stray" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A warden is a hostile mob summoned by sculk shriekers which are located in the deep dark . It is completely blind, relying entirely on vibrations and its sense of smell to detect players and entities to attack, and digs down to despawn if it does not detect anything for 60 seconds and if it doesn't have a name . If a warden successfully detects a target, it rapidly strikes them with its arms, or fires damaging sonic beams which pass through blocks and ignore armor , shields , as well as all enchantments . A warden will always drop one sculk catalyst and five experience points .
Wardens do not follow the standard mob spawning rules. Instead, a warden is spawned when a player in Survival , Adventure or Creative mode activates any number of naturally generated sculk shriekers four times (see details below).
A warden can also be spawned if calibrated sculk sensors activate sculk shriekers.
Each player has a warning level , which increases every time that player activates a naturally generated sculk shrieker. This is not specific to any sculk shrieker. A sculk shrieker that has already been activated by a player before activates the same way it does normally, and the warning level does not reset if the player were to activate a new sculk shrieker. The distance between the shriekers doesn't matter. The shrieker spawns a warden 4.5 seconds after the warning level reaches 4, or immediately if the sculk shrieker is destroyed. If the warning level is already at 4, it stays at 4 and spawns another warden.
The light level does not have an effect on shrieker activation or warden spawning, regardless of the warning level.
When a shrieker attempts to spawn a warden, it makes up to 20 attempts to spawn the warden within an 11×13×11 cubic area centered on the shrieker. During each attempt, the game picks a random column (i.e. a stack of blocks parallel to the Y axis), and then picks the highest valid block in that column. A valid block is any block that has a complete top surface (i.e. the top face is a grid-aligned square meter surface with no holes), and that a warden can be placed directly on top of without having the warden collide with any existing blocks or entities. A warden can't spawn if the bottom block that it would occupy has a liquid inside it, but it can spawn with 1 or more liquids in the blocks above that. So, a pressure plate with water flowing on top would be a valid location for the shrieker to spawn the warden (this would place the warden with its feet in the water, one block above the pressure plate).
In Java Edition , warden spawning can be toggled on or off with the game rule spawn_wardens .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
After spawning, wardens wander randomly and move toward nearby vibrations originating from players, mobs, and non-mob sources including projectiles and minecarts . A warden also periodically sniffs the area around it, allowing it to zero in on targets even if they don't create vibrations. As wardens sniff, pick up vibrations, or are touched by other players or mobs, they become increasingly agitated.
Similar to sculk, the bright blue parts of the warden's texture are emissive with Vibrant Visuals , easily noticeable in the dark where they spawn.
A warden can fit inside any space that is 1 block wide and 3 blocks tall, allowing it to chase players and mobs through small corridors.
Wardens are immune to damage from fire or lava , and are immune to knockback . They pursue through blocks that are usually avoided by other mobs, including rails [1] , cacti , or magma blocks . However, in Bedrock Edition , they cannot pathfind through fire or soul fire. [2]
A warden listens to all vibrations within a 15 block radius ovoid shape, except those from other wardens, armor stands , dying mobs, and players in Creative or Spectator mode. Like with sculk sensors , they cannot detect vibrations from a sneaking player that is moving, jumping , falling or shooting a projectile. A warden has a 2-second cooldown between detecting vibrations.
A warden is aware of all targetable entities within a 49×51×49 box around itself. If the warden has a targetable entity, is not investigating any disturbances, and is otherwise idle, it pathfinds toward the closest entity, prioritizing players over mobs. While pathfinding, the warden can begin a 'sniff' behavior and animation. This takes around 4.2 seconds and has a 5-10 seconds cooldown. A warden can still sniff out sneaking players, despite not being able to detect vibrations from them.
A warden prefers to track down the most suspicious targets, rather than the ones closest to it. [3]
A warden, whether angered or not, gives 13 seconds of Darkness to all players within a 20 block ovoid radius of it every 6 seconds. The souls in its chest make a low heartbeat that occurs in tandem with the Darkness effect.​ [ more information needed ] The heartbeat speeds up as the warden becomes increasingly agitated. [4]
Wardens keep track of how angry they are at each suspect as a number from 0 to 150. When a warden notices a vibration, it adds anger to the player or mob that caused the vibration. It adds 10 anger if the vibration was from a projectile or 35 anger for other vibrations. However, if two projectiles from the same player/mob are heard by the warden within five seconds, it instead adds the full 35 anger toward that player/mob. Wardens do not add anger toward a mob/player if the projectile was shot from more than 30 blocks away, although the projectile does count toward the counter of two projectiles. Anger decays at a rate of 1 per second and immediately clears if the targeted player switches to Creative or Spectator modes, the target or warden leaves the dimension, or if the target dies.
A warden adds 35 anger toward any mob that directly touches it. This effect has a 1-second cooldown.
When it finishes sniffing, a warden adds 35 anger to the nearest mob or player within a 6 block radius horizontally and 20 blocks vertically, a cylindrical volume centered on the warden.
Once a warden reaches 80 anger with a target, it roars for 4.2 seconds, adds another 20 anger, and pursues the target. In this angered state, the warden chases the target normally despite being blind. A warden also enters its hostile state and adds 100 anger if directly attacked by a mob. If the attacking player or mob is within 5 blocks, it skips its roaring animation altogether and immediately gives chase.
A warden is biased toward player vibrations, attacks, and contact - even if a warden is angrier at another mob, it still attacks the player first as long as they have angered the warden as well. This is not true of any other mob . [5]
After 60 seconds of being "calm" and not detecting any vibrations or sniffing any mobs, as well as immediately after being spawned by a command block with status effects, a warden burrows back into the ground and despawns. If the warden is floating on a liquid, it instead immediately despawns without any burrowing animation. During its emerging/burrowing animation, a warden cannot detect any vibrations and can take damage only from / kill , though it can still be pushed by entities, pistons , or liquids.‌ [ JE only ] Named wardens do not despawn.
Unlike most hostile mobs, wardens do not despawn randomly when more than 32 blocks from a player, nor do they immediately despawn when more than 128 blocks from a player.
A warden's melee attack has a cooldown of 36 ticks (1.8 seconds) and disables shields for 5 seconds, dealing 16 HP × 8 to 45 HP × 22.5 health points depending on the difficulty.
If a warden cannot reach its target, it switches to its ranged attack: a sonic boom. It does so when the following are true:
The sonic boom aims directly at only the target, making it impossible to dodge, passing through all blocks and entities. A warden takes 1.7 seconds to charge and unleashes the attack, which instantly hits the target as long as the target is within attack range. The attack takes an additional 1.3 seconds to cool down before the warden can use melee attacks again for a total of 3 seconds. The sonic boom is visible via teal particles that are projected out of the warden's chest. This attack bypasses most forms of armor , including shields , armor enchantments (such as Protection ), and the natural armor that some mobs possess, except the Thorns enchantment in Bedrock Edition . Only wolf armor , the 85%‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 95%‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] magic damage resistance of a witch , and the Resistance effect can reduce the damage from a sonic boom. Wolf armor loses durability when hit by a sonic boom, but normal armor does not.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wardens have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Killing a warden does not grant the Monster Hunter advancement and is not required in order to complete the Monsters Hunted advancement. [6] [7]
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
For the Nether Update , Mojang planned to add a "blind piglin that could only respond to sounds" that could be found within a "new biome". [8] This idea was then later reused for the warden instead.
The warden was developed by Brandon Pearce . During early development, the planned mechanics and abilities of the warden were significantly different to the final version. Planned and then scrapped ideas for the warden include:
The warden is the most concepted and worked through mob in Minecraft in terms of sound design. [14] When Brandon Pearce was first developing the warden, sound design was important to him, and the warden was designed with that in mind. [15] Brandon originally wanted players to hear their own "heartbeat" as the warden got closer for anticipation, but he thought that it felt out of place and didn't make sense to hear the player's heartbeat. His solution was for something else to make the heartbeat, and thus the warden itself gained a heartbeat sound. [16]
There were multiple prototypes for what ultimately became the warden. [17] According to Jasper Boerstra , it went through 175 different concept iterations to ensure that the warden was "something really special". [18] The very first warden iteration created was a modified cow that made the lights and torches flicker and served as the main prototype for the darkness effect. [19]
Some known concepts and names for the warden from this time were the "shade", [20] the "stalker" and the "hollowed". [17]
The shade was a vaguely humanoid translucent mob with glowing eyes. It was meant to be a more ambient mob, which would stand in darkness with only its eyes visible and would slowly fade away as the player approached it. It would also imitate the noise of other mobs, making it sound as though they were right behind the player.
Rather than an iteration on the warden, by then called the "stalker", the shade had come to be a completely separate mob to the stalker, though in some concepts it was meant to be sort of complementary, living in the ancient cities and helping the stalker by tricking players into alerting it. It was eventually scrapped due to a feeling that it would grow to become annoying rather than creepy, and so the team could better focus on developing the stalker. [22]
It is unknown whether the shade was ever implemented into the game as a prototype.
Another early prototype was the stalker . Several pieces of concept art were created for this iteration of the mob, and a prototype of the original stalker design was programmed into the game.
The first stalker iteration was a mob that could spawn anywhere deep underground. Stalkers could make torches flicker off and on when nearby. [23] The stalker was tall and asymmetrical with a glowing core, sometimes referred to as a chest crystal. [8] It occurred in totems throughout the deep dark. The stalker would stand completely still to trick players into taking its core and aggravating it.
A later version of the stalker could transform into a form that was less wide and tall when chasing an entity or player, while its regular form was meant to disguise as a treasure totem. This iteration got scrapped as it was considered too clunky and goofy, and was insufficiently scary.
The vibration-sensing aspect, which was developed in this version, however, was passed down to and refined in the later iterations. [24] [25]
The sounds iterated for the stalker. [26]
Later on, the stalker was renamed to hollowed. Several pieces of concept art were also created for the hollowed design iteration. A prototype of the hollowed design was programmed into the game.
The hollowed was designed with the intent of inciting trypophobia and had white flesh with holes in it. According to Brandon Pearce , its design was an experiment to see how far the boundaries of Minecraft could be pushed and to try and draw a line as to what would be acceptable. The design had to ultimately be toned down multiple times due to said metaphorical line being crossed. The visuals for this iteration were ultimately scrapped, as they were considered too uncanny and overall frightening for Minecraft . After many back-and-forths between the developers, the directors and art team, a design similar to the current one was landed on, with the mechanics remaining mostly the same. [27] [28]
The sounds created for the hollowed were even more unsettling and scarier than what had been created for the current warden iteration. [29]
Issues relating to "Warden" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A piglin is a neutral mob found in the Nether . It is hostile to players unless they wear at least one piece of golden armor . It can be given gold ingots to barter for various items . It wields either a golden sword , golden spear , or crossbow and uses either melee, spear charge, or ranged attacks, respectively.
Baby piglins do not grow up, are passive, and take gold without giving anything in return.
Piglins spawn in groups of 4 in nether wastes and 3-4 in crimson forest biomes at light levels of 11‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 7‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] and below. They can spawn on most blocks other than nether wart blocks and magma blocks .
Piglins also spawn within bastion remnants upon generation.
Each piglin has a 20%‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 5%‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] chance to spawn as a baby.
Every adult piglin spawns with a weapon: either a golden sword (45% chance), a golden spear (5% chance) or a crossbow (50% chance). Adult piglins can also spawn with golden armor, with each armor slot independently having a 10% chance to be equipped. Therefore, each piglin has a 34.39% chance to spawn with at least 1 piece of armor, and a 0.01% chance to spawn with a full set. Baby piglins never spawn with weapons or armor.
A baby piglin can also be spawned by using a piglin spawn egg on an adult piglin, similar to other mobs with a baby variant.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
If a piglin is killed in one hit while admiring a gold ingot , the ingot drops. However, if the piglin is hit and not killed, the piglin stops admiring the item. This causes the item to vanish from its hands and subsequently not drop when the piglin is killed.
Adults have an 8.5% chance of dropping each naturally held or worn piece of equipment when killed by a player or tamed wolf. The dropped item has a random durability . Each level of Looting used to kill the piglin increases the drop chance for each piece of equipment by 1%.
Babies always spawn without equipment.
A piglin naturally spawns with one of these weapons:
Adult piglins have a 10% chance per slot to spawn wearing any of the following armor pieces, which may additionally be enchanted:
If you give a piglin a piece of armor and then give it a golden one it will wear the golden one and take off the other one.
If you give a piglin a piece of armor enchanted with Curse of Binding then throw a piece of golden armor at it, it will take the armor and will not equip it.
Piglins always drop picked-up equipment upon death.
Piglins can pick up any type of armor or weapon, as long as the new equipment is better than the current equipment. See § Picking up items .
In Java Edition , a picked-up item always drops with the same durability as when picked up.
In Bedrock Edition , armor ​ [ more information needed ] picked up by piglins can lose durability and even break (if it takes enough damage).
Piglins do not drop any gold ingots, raw porkchops, or cooked porkchops that they have picked up. However, any other items they have picked up are dropped.
Adults drop 5 XP , which is not affected by armor, if killed by a player or tamed wolf . Baby piglins drop 5 XP ‌ [ JE only ] [1] or 1 XP ‌ [ BE only ] [2] .
Piglins snort enviously while watching players holding a gold-related item.
Like villagers , piglins can open and close wooden and copper doors , but cannot open fence gates , trapdoors , or iron doors . They also cannot climb ladders .
Piglins cannot swim and can drown if submerged. [3] Unlike zombified piglins , they are not naturally immune to fire or lava . [4]
Idle piglins retreat from zombified piglins [ note 1 ] (except babies), zoglins , soul fire , soul torches , soul lanterns , and lit soul campfires . Piglins ignore soul fire items when pursuing the player, but still run from zombified piglins and zoglins. Baby piglins additionally retreat from wither skeletons and withers .
Crossbow piglins do not reload their crossbows when spawned, unlike pillagers . They reload only when provoked.
Baby piglins are passive and play with baby hoglins , running around and riding upon them. Up to 3 baby piglins may stack on top of each other while riding a baby hoglin.
Baby piglins can be given gold, but they do not give anything in return and run away. Baby piglins can also pick up and wear armor as well as hold gold tools or weapons. However, they are unable to pick up leather .
Unlike many other mobs, piglins cannot be spawned holding any items in their off-hand; instead, the item in question is placed into their inventory or, if applicable, their main hand or an armor slot. [5] As a consequence, they cannot fire special ammunition from their crossbows, such as firework rockets or tipped arrows , and they cannot use a totem of undying alongside a melee weapon. If spawned with a gold ingot in their off-hand, the piglin immediately drops a random bartering good without examining the ingot.
As they are monsters, golden dandelions do not work on baby piglins.
Adult piglins are neutral if the player is wearing at least one piece of golden armor .
In Java Edition , the list of items that make piglins neutral can be modified in a data pack, by putting an item in the piglin_safe_armor tag , which contains golden armor by default.
In Bedrock Edition , the list of items that make piglins neutral can be modified in a behavior pack, by putting an entity filter like this in the piglin.json file, in the alert_for_attack_targets component group, and in the minecraft:behavior.nearest_attackable_target .
{ "test": "has_equipment", "subject": "other", "domain": "<any armor slot>", "operator": "not", "value": "<item>" }
This filter contains golden armor by default.
Piglins are provoked by any player who:
Opening or breaking a hopper does not provoke piglins. [9] Piglins do not react to the opening or breaking of other containers. Breaking a bell does not provoke them either, even though piglins admire them as gold. [10]
When provoked, piglins remain hostile for 30 seconds.
Unlike other neutral mobs, piglins don't count towards the AngryAt tag. [11] [12] [13]
Piglins have different attacking behavior based on the weapon they are wielding.
Piglins wielding swords and most other items rush at the player. When attacking with a sword it holds its dominant arm and sword in front of it, similarly to a vindicator .
When attacking with a crossbow , piglins shoot arrows every 2 seconds. In Java Edition , they walk backward (stopping if at the edge of a drop) as soon as the target is close. In Java Edition , their crossbows can break if it runs out of durability, [14] making the piglins use their fists, while in Bedrock Edition their crossbows never break. [15] Unlike mobs armed with bows , they do not strafe from left to right while shooting. Also, unlike pillagers , piglins cannot fire firework rockets or special kinds of arrows , since they cannot hold them in their off-hand if spawned so. [5]
Piglins wielding spears use the spear's charge attack while moving towards their target. They hold the charge through its full duration, using all 3 stages. Once the charge attack has ended or they get too close to their target, they walk away to increase the distance between them and their target before turning around to begin another charge. Piglins with spears are especially dangerous because they run towards their target instead of walking, increasing the damage of their charge attack.
Adult piglins congregate within 16 blocks and attack in hordes. If a group of piglins successfully defeats their target, they gather at the site of their target's demise and emit "celebration sounds". However, piglins do not have a chance of dancing unless their target was a hoglin.
Adult piglins are hostile toward wither skeletons and withers .
Iron golems attack both adult and baby piglins; however, piglins do not attack iron golems without provocation.
The detection range of piglins is reduced to half of their normal range (17.5 blocks) when the player is wearing a piglin head .
Piglins also retaliate to being rammed by a goat .‌ [ Java Edition only ] [16]
Piglins sometimes attack hoglins, causing other piglins and piglin brutes‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] in that area to attack the targeted hoglin as well.
Adults do not immediately attack adult hoglins on sight, but a piglin has a random chance to decide to hunt a hoglin (this decision rarely happens if the piglin recently hunted, but other piglins can still start a hunt). [verify] Once that piglin attacks the hoglin, all other piglins and piglin brutes‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] in that area become hostile to the hoglin. If outnumbered by hoglins, the piglins flee, making "retreat" sounds. After defeating a hoglin (or any other entity ), piglins have a 10% chance to do a "victory dance" by bobbing their heads, bodies and sticking out their arms like a T-pose.
Each piglin that sees a hoglin has a 10% chance of starting a hunt. [verify] Therefore, the more piglins there are, the larger the chance of a hunt occurring, as there are more opportunities for a hunt to begin.
After a hunt, any nearby piglins pick up the porkchops or cooked porkchops the hoglin dropped, but not the leather.
Piglins that spawned as part of a bastion remnant during world generation do not hunt.
Piglin brutes also join in hunts started by piglins, but do not start a hunt themselves.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Piglins briefly stop attacking when given gold items. If the player offers a gold ingot, bartering then takes place as it normally would. They resume attacking once the barter is complete. If the player distracts them with a gold item and equips a piece of gold armor while the piglin is examining the item, then the piglin ceases hostility. They may also cease hostility if distracted enough times. If the player breaks any gold-related block or hurt/kill a piglin and then distracts the piglin up to 5 times with a piece of gold armor equipped, the piglin ceases hostility entirely.
Adult piglins take gold ingots, whether dropped nearby or when a player uses one while looking at them, and barter certain items for them. The piglin "examines" the ingot for six‌ [ JE only ] or eight‌ [ BE only ] [17] seconds, then drops a random item from the chart . However, baby piglins examine the ingot and then run away without dropping an item. Piglins can also pick up items dropped by a dispenser or dropper . In Java Edition , the pool for what piglins can barter may be modified in a data pack .
Piglins can still barter while riding another mob.
Piglins can pick up any items they come across, except for leather , and prefer gold -related items, which they actively seek out.
Each piglin has eight hidden inventory slots in which it can stack items . A piglin with a full inventory does not attempt to pick up gold-related items, except gold ingots.
A piglin automatically equips any armor or weapon it can pick up, as long as the new equipment is better than its current equipment. When this happens, the previously held or worn item is dropped, giving players another way to easily recover their equipment. Piglins also prefer gold over other armors.
When a piglin picks up a gold-related piece of equipment, it has to inspect the item first before equipping it. Inspecting the item takes six seconds. However, non-gold equipment, if preferable, is equipped instantly. Piglins do not pick up any items when the / gamerule mobGriefing is set to false .
Only a piglin with a crossbow can pick up crossbows.
A piglin picks up raw porkchops and cooked porkchops from 1 block, unless it has already done so within the last 10 seconds. However, a piglin does not seek out porkchops or go out of its way to collect them.
Items with the piglin_loved tag are the only items that piglins want and pick up. When a piglin picks up one of these items, the player who dropped it (if it was dropped by a player) is given the advancement "Oh Shiny"‌ [ Java Edition only ] / achievement "Oooh, Shiny!"‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] unless the item was a gold nugget. Piglins aren't interested in other items, and can't be distracted by other items, even if the items are related to gold in some way.
Items that piglins love:
Baby piglins attempt to pick up every item‌ [ JE only ] (except leather), regardless of whether they love it, and they admire gold ingots but do not barter any items.
Adult piglins can pick up gold nuggets , but won't inspect them for bartering. When killed, a piglin drops all of its items, except for gold ingots, raw porkchops, and cooked porkchops.
Piglins that spawned in a bastion remnant during world generation, and piglins that have picked up or equipped items, do not despawn naturally.
When in the Overworld or the End , piglins transform into zombified piglins after 15 seconds, retaining their armor, their name, and any items that they are holding. However, they cannot shoot a crossbow, using it instead as a melee weapon. Upon transformation, the spawned zombified piglin has the Nausea effect for 10 seconds‌ [ JE only ] [18] ; this is just a cosmetic effect. When a piglin transforms into a zombified piglin, it drops anything except equipped weapons and armor in its inventory; other items in its inventory disappear.
In Java Edition , if the game is set to Peaceful difficulty, piglins are stuck in an eternal transformation state. They shake and do not barter. Upon returning to the Nether, piglins resume their normal behavior.
In Bedrock Edition , if the game is set to Peaceful difficulty, the piglin despawns instead of transforming because hostile mobs do not exist in Peaceful difficulty. A piglin that returns to the Nether before 15 seconds remains unchanged, although the 15-second portal cooldown usually prevents them from returning during that time.
A piglin does not zombify outside the Nether if its IsImmuneToZombification tag is set to true . Piglins with their NoAI tag set to true also do not zombify.
In Java Edition , if a piglin is inspecting/admiring a gold ingot or a gold-related item and then gets zombified while inspecting, it drops the gold ingot or the gold-related item.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Piglins have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Piglin" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A piglin brute is a hostile and stronger variant of the piglin . It wields a golden axe and appears in all types of bastion remnants . Unlike piglins, piglin brutes do not barter, retreat, or get distracted by gold .
According to the Guide to Survival , piglin brutes have been pumping iron ore and that is the reason behind their high attack damage.
A small number of piglin brutes spawn in some rooms of bastion remnants only upon generation , so they are not renewable. They do not have a baby variant.
Piglin brutes spawn with a golden axe , occasionally with enchantments‌ [ Java Edition only ] . They never spawn with armor and do not equip armor from the ground, although they can still be equipped with armor via dispensers or commands.
A piglin brute has 8.5% chance of dropping a golden axe with a random durability if killed by a player or a tamed wolf , increased by 1% with each level of Looting , with a total 11.5% chance with Looting III.
A piglin brute drops 20 XP experience points when killed by a player or a tamed wolf .
Piglin brutes attack players , wither skeletons , and withers within 16 blocks and are not distracted by golden items or blocks . However, they prefer to attack players over wither skeletons and withers. They also attack any mob, including goats , [1] that attacks any piglin or piglin brute, either by accident or purposefully. Examples include retaliation for attacks by snow golems and iron golems .
Piglin brutes, much like vindicators , deal a high amount of raw melee damage, inflicting 13 HP × 6.5 points of damage on Normal difficulty.‌ [ JE only ] [ note 1 ] The only stronger mobs are the iron golem , which deals up to 32.25 HP × 16.125 melee damage, the warden , which deals up to 45 HP × 22.5 melee damage and the unused giant , which deals up to 75 HP × 37.5 melee damage.
Piglin brutes spawn in all difficulty settings. In Peaceful difficulty, piglin brutes do despawn.
In Java Edition , the detection range of piglin brutes is reduced to half of their normal range (8 blocks) when the player is wearing a piglin head .
Behaviors shared by both piglins and piglin brutes:
Behaviors specific to piglin brutes:
When in the Overworld or the End , piglin brutes transform into zombified piglins after 15 seconds. Upon transformation, the spawned zombified piglin has the Nausea effect for 10 seconds‌ [ JE only ] [4] . This Nausea effect is purely cosmetic. When turned into a zombified piglin, a piglin brute keeps its axe.
Piglin brutes summoned in the Overworld with no AI do not zombify and do not pick up items.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Piglin brutes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Piglin Brute" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A hoglin is a breedable hostile mob found in the Nether , and a source of porkchops and leather . Hoglins are repelled by warped fungi that is placed in the world as well as active Nether portals and respawn anchors . It attacks by thrusting its tusks upward, which can also launch its target a short distance into the air.
Baby hoglins behave similarly, but have a much weaker attack (the weakest attack in the game) with normal knockback, and flee when hit.
Hoglins are found in herds of 3–4 in crimson forests , respawning over time. They can spawn at any light level and on most solid blocks other than Nether wart blocks and shroomlights .‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Hoglins spawn in certain types of bastion remnants upon structure generation. They spawn frequently in the hoglin stable variant (specifically the large and small stables in the "lower" area, but never in the "upper" area with ramparts), and sometimes in the main "bridge entrance" at the upper half of the rampart in the bridge variant. Similar to the piglins and piglin brutes there, these hoglins never despawn.
20%‌ [ Java Edition only ] /5%‌ [ BE only ] of hoglins spawn as babies.
Hoglins need at least a 1×1×1.5 area to spawn. While adult hoglins will spawn inside a top slab if there is enough room, they will not pathfind unless they have more space above them. Adult hoglins will pathfind if they are in a top trapdoor, however.
In Java Edition , hoglins despawn on Peaceful like other hostile mobs.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Baby hoglins drop only experience when killed, at the same rate as adult hoglins. They are also the only baby animals that drop experience.
Hoglins avoid being within 7 blocks of warped fungi (including in a flower pot ), Nether portals and respawn anchors . They naturally sink in water and eventually drown. [1] They also sink in lava and are vulnerable to fire damage. [2] Hoglins can be led with a lead even though they are hostile.
Hoglins attack any player within 16 blocks with a reach of 1.9 blocks. An adult knocks its target upward‌ [ JE only ] [3] . Players can still be flung even if they block with a shield . Hoglins do not attack a player standing near a block that repels them , but instead run away from the block unless they have already chosen to attack. If a player has a hoglin on a lead, then the hoglin still attacks players who get within its attack range, but does not actively pursue and attack the player leading it.‌ [ JE only ] Hoglins are 60% resistant to knockback. Unlike other hostile mobs, they do not prevent a player from sleeping .
Similar to piglins and zombified piglins , a player or mob attacking a hoglin provokes all nearby hoglins. Attacking a baby hoglin does not trigger this behavior.
If a piglin attacks a hoglin, all the hoglins in the area retaliate. Hoglins also flee if outnumbered and make retreating sounds. If the piglins are outnumbered by hoglins, they flee and make retreating sounds.
Piglins do not hunt hoglins that spawn upon generation of bastion remnants .
Like piglins, hoglins retaliate when attacked by a goat ‌ [ JE only ] [4] .
Despite being monsters, golden dandelions can stop baby hoglins from growing up into adults.
Baby hoglins also attack the player, dealing much less damage and normal knockback. If the player attacks a baby hoglin, it temporarily flees.
Baby piglins run near and ride baby hoglins. If there are more baby piglins than baby hoglins, the baby piglins occasionally jump on other baby piglins already riding a baby hoglin, with a maximum of 3 stacked on a single baby hoglin.
If a hoglin spawns in or moves to the Overworld or the End , it shakes and then transforms into a zoglin after 15 seconds. If the world is in Peaceful difficulty , the zoglin disappears instantly. If not, the newly-created zoglin gets Nausea I for 10 seconds‌ [ JE only ] [5] . This Nausea effect is only decorative and has no effect on the zoglin's behavior.
Hoglins can be bred with crimson fungi . It takes 5 minutes before the parents can be bred again, and it takes 20 minutes for baby hoglins to mature. Baby hoglins stay near their parents unless they see a player or get attacked, in which case they attack or run away. Feeding a crimson fungus to a baby hoglin reduces the remaining time for it to mature by 10%.
Hoglins cannot be bred when they are running away from warped fungi, respawn anchors, or Nether portals.
Feeding crimson fungi to a hoglin prevents it from despawning , whether the breeding is successful or not. The baby hoglin produced by breeding does not despawn either.
Feeding a baby hoglin a golden dandelion will freeze their growth. If used again it will then take them 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up.
Like the killer bunny ,‌ [ JE only ] the hoglin is one of the only hostile mobs that can be bred .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Hoglins have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Hoglin" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A blaze is a fiery hostile mob found in Nether fortresses and is the only source of blaze rods . A blaze attacks by floating upward and shooting fireballs at its target in volleys of three at a time. It can also attack its target in melee range with its spinning rods.
Blazes may spawn naturally in Nether fortresses in groups of 2 or 3‌ [ JE only ] and from 1 to 3‌ [ BE only ] at a light level of 11 or less.
Blazes may also spawn from monster spawners in Nether fortresses. Two spawners generate in every Nether fortress and are located on small platforms surrounded by Nether brick fences with a three-block staircase leading up to it.
Spawning conditions for blazes:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
10 XP experience orbs are dropped if killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Blazes can fly and are immune to damage from fire and lava. When not attacking, they stay on the ground or slowly sink through the air. When idle, blazes attempt to swim upward in lava or water in Bedrock Edition but sink in Java Edition . Despite taking damage from water, blazes make no attempt to protect themselves if pushed or dropped into water. Their pathfinding does not avoid fire or lava but does avoid water.
Blazes take 5 HP freezing damage from powder snow .
Blazes take 3 HP damage when hit by a snowball and 1 HP damage when hit by a splash water bottle .
Like endermen , blazes are damaged by rain by 1 HP every half second.
The entire blaze texture appears brighter in Bedrock Edition , similar to the drowned 's eyes. With Vibrant Visuals , blazes and their fire are actually emissive and glowing, with the side-effect that the environment around a blaze darkens when looking at it.
Blazes target players within 48 blocks. If a blaze is damaged by a player or another mob, it alerts other blazes within 48 blocks to target the attacker. A blaze flies when it acquires a target, slowly approaching while attempting to remain from 0.5 to 3.5 blocks above the target.
A blaze's normal attack is a trio of small fireballs , shot from up to 48 blocks. Unlike with the ghast or breeze , a blaze's projectiles cannot be deflected, but can be blocked with a shield . A blaze shoots only when it has a clear line of sight to its target. If line of sight is broken in the middle of its volley, the blaze suspends the remainder of its volley until line of sight returns. When using this attack, the blaze burns with fire for 3 seconds, shoots 3 small fireballs over the course of 0.9 seconds, then extinguishes its flames and waits for 5 seconds before attacking again. A blaze shoots its small fireballs with roughly the same lack of accuracy as a dispenser ; however, the blaze's shots maintain the same speed all the way to the target, unlike the dispenser's, which start slow and accelerate. If a neutral or hostile mob is accidentally hit by a fireball, the mob will retaliate against the blaze.
A blaze that touches its target performs a melee attack once per second that does 4 HP damage on Easy difficulty , 6 HP on Normal, and 9 HP on Hard. This attack is not considered fire damage and does not ignite the target, and as such cannot be prevented by the Fire Resistance status effect.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Blazes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Blaze" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Ghasts are large, floating, ghost -like hostile mobs found in the Nether , and are the only source of ghast tears . Ghasts wander aimlessly and shoot explosive fireballs at players , which can be hit back to kill them instantly upon direct impact.
To spawn naturally, a ghast requires a solid block below it and a free space 5×5 blocks wide and 4 blocks high. They spawn in the basalt deltas , Nether wastes , and soul sand valley biomes in any light level. In Java Edition , ghasts cannot spawn in soul sand valleys if another ghast is within 16 blocks of spherical distance to the intended spawning location. In Bedrock Edition , two ghasts can spawn within any 4 chunk span.
In Java Edition , ghasts spawn in groups of 4 at both Nether wastes and soul sand valleys while they spawn individually in basalt deltas . In Bedrock Edition , ghasts will always spawn individually.
Ghasts do not spawn in Nether fortresses , but they can wander nearby. They can, however, spawn in the treasure room variant of bastion remnants if the room is in the correct biome .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Ghasts float around with their eyes and mouth closed and periodically make crying sounds heard from up to 80 blocks away. They have a hitbox of 4×4×4 blocks. The ghast's nine tentacles are not within their hitbox.
When within range, a ghast faces the player and shoots a fireball every 3 seconds, opening its eyes and mouth and making a screeching sound. They strafe left to right in the air while targeting. A ghast requires a line of sight to the player before firing, which can be blocked by any solid block, including transparent blocks. In Java Edition , they target players within 64 blocks horizontally and 4 blocks vertically [1] , and continue attacking as long as they are within a 64 block sphere and have line of sight. In Bedrock Edition , a ghast normally targets a player within a sphere of 28 blocks, increasing to 64 blocks if the player damages it. In Bedrock Edition , a ghast holds its charge like a pillager when it loses sight of its target and shoots again instantly when in range. [2]
Ghasts do not attempt to approach the player once aggravated, but instead fire at the player from their position within firing range. If a ghast is within close range to its target, it may take damage from the explosion of its own fireball, regardless of the player hitting the fireball back.
Ghasts can provoke other mobs into targeting them, but in Java Edition they do not target other mobs, only the player.
Ghasts are immune to fire and lava damage. They are slowed by lava, occasionally sinking into it or passing through lava falls, immobilizing them and making them more vulnerable to ranged attacks for some time.
Despite their ghostly appearance, ghasts are not considered undead mobs. [3] This means they can drown, [4] are damaged by Instant Damage [5] and healed by Instant Health , are affected by Regeneration and Poison , [6] and are not affected by Smite . [7] Despite this, withers never deliberately target them [8] , making them the only non-undead mob ignored by withers (excluding agents ‌ [ BE & edu only ] , and mobs with the invulnerable NBT tag). They are also completely ignored by wolves , "Johnny" vindicators , goats , snow golems , trusting foxes , and zoglins . However, iron golems and wardens attack ghasts, and ghasts do not retaliate.‌ [ Java Edition only ] [9]
Despite being flying mobs, ghasts can destroy turtle eggs when on top of them. [10]
When targeting, the red eyes and mouth of a ghast appears more glowing in Bedrock Edition . With Vibrant Visuals , this texture actually glows.
Ghasts shoot fireballs at players, dealing damage to entities and creating an explosion that sets fire to nearby blocks upon impact. Blocks with blast resistance as low as 3.5 survive a fireball's explosion; the explosion itself does no damage unless it hits the entities directly.
Hitting a fireball with another projectile or a melee attack deflects it, dealing 1000 HP × 500 damage to any ghast hit directly by it.
All other mobs retaliate against the player instead of the ghast if a deflected fireball hits them.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Ghasts have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Ghast" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A magma cube is a hostile mob found in the Nether . A magma cube behaves similarly to a slime in that it splits into smaller magma cubes on death, all the way down to tiny size, but is fireproof, jumps higher and less often, and deals more damage . Magma cubes are a source of magma cream and the only source of froglights if eaten by a frog while small.
Magma cubes spawn in areas of the Nether at all light levels. The space they spawn in must be clear of solid obstructions and liquids. Because they are inherently fireproof, magma cubes can spawn on magma blocks .
Only sizes 1, 2 and 4 (NBT Size tag values 0, 1 and 3 respectively) spawn naturally. With use of / summon , magma cubes can potentially range from size 1 to 127 (NBT Size tag 0–126). [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
A magma cube needs a 2.08×2.08×2.08 free space to spawn. The area in which they spawn must be clear of solid or liquid obstructions. When a magma cube attempts to spawn, the game checks for the space requirement of a large magma cube, and the size is determined later. Therefore, since large magma cubes are slightly taller than 2 blocks, no magma cubes, regardless of size, are able to spawn at all in 2-block-high areas. Also, since large magma cubes are slightly wider than 2 blocks, and mobs spawn at the center of a block, having any block within the 2.08×2.08×2.08 area, even as thin as a glass pane , can prevent a magma cube of any size from spawning. Although, way less magma cubes spawn in Nether wastes .
Magma cubes' size is affected by regional difficulty : chances range from 33% for each size at the low difficulty to 16% small, 33% medium, and 50% big with higher difficulty.
Magma cube monster spawners generate in the main treasure room of treasure bastion remnants . They always hang under the side of the bridge directly above the stash of gold and the center loot chests hanging on 2 iron chains , and they generate opposite to the staircase on the bridge.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A magma cube seeks out any player or an iron golem within a spherical distance of 16 blocks. If it finds no enemy, it changes direction every 40 to 100 ticks (2 to 5 seconds) and jumps forward every 40 to 120 ticks (2 to 6 seconds). If it finds a target, the delay before jumping is 1 ⁄ 3 as long (13 to 40 ticks), and the magma cube changes direction directly toward the target before jumping.
Magma cubes cannot be hurt by fall damage or burning, and are not slowed down by lava. They can swim upward in lava and leap above its surface.
Their jump height depends on their size (6 high for large). Their forward speed is twice that of most other mobs. They always make a distinct sound upon jumping up and landing, but no idle sounds.
When a magma cube is killed, it splits into 2-4 smaller magma cubes. Tiny magma cubes disappear when killed, like other mobs.
They can swim in water and attempt to stay on the surface. Like slimes , magma cubes starts taking drowning damage if submerged in water for 15 seconds, splitting into smaller cubes if possible.
Magma cubes take extra damage from powder snow , taking 5 HP every two seconds, unlike 1 HP for other mobs.
Unlike most mobs, magma cubes have no pathfinding ability, meaning that they do not avoid falling off cliffs and cannot go around walls, even when chasing a player. This behavior is shared by slimes.
When they are in lava, they hover and try to move to nearby land.
The eyes and yellow core of magma cubes are emissive with Vibrant Visuals .
Magma cubes attack by jumping and attempting to land on the player, and cause damage when touched anywhere. As their jump rate is random, magma cubes can be hard to fight.
The health of a magma cube is its size squared; the attack strength is its size + 2, and the armor points are its size tripled.
A magma cube jumps a distance of approximately its length times 1.5 and a height equivalent to its size in blocks. This means that a large magma cube jumps 4 blocks in height and moves significantly quicker than a small magma cube, which jumps 2 blocks in height; while a tiny magma cube moves slowly and jumps 1 block in height.
Magma cubes continuously damage all players and iron golems they collide with (although damage immunity reduces the actual damage to 1 attack every half second), equivalent to about twice as often as other mobs, which damage only targets they specifically attack. [1] A large magma cube can deal 12 HP × 6 of damage per second on normal difficulty. Unlike slimes , tiny magma cubes can deal damage to the player.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Magma cubes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Magma Cube" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A wither skeleton is a tall, black variant of a skeleton equipped with a stone sword . They inflict the Wither effect when attacking the player . They are found exclusively in Nether fortresses and are the only source of wither skeleton skulls , as well as the only renewable source of coal .
Wither skeletons can spawn in Nether fortresses at a light level between 0 and 7, in groups of 5‌ [ JE only ] or 2-3‌ [ BE only ] :
They are the only mobs that can spawn inside wither roses due to their immunity to the damaging effect.
Spiders and cave spiders spawned in the Nether using commands or spawn eggs have a 1% chance to spawn as a spider jockey , with an 80% chance of that spider being ridden by a wither skeleton.
On Halloween, wither skeletons have a 22.5% chance of spawning wearing a carved pumpkin and a 2.5% chance of spawning wearing a Jack o'lantern . They are never dropped.
The wither spawns 3-4 wither skeletons when below half health on Normal and Hard difficulties .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wither skeletons wander aimlessly when idle. They sprint to attack players , iron golems , baby turtles , piglins , and piglin brutes within 16 blocks.
When an entity is attacked by a wither skeleton on any difficulty , it is inflicted with the Wither effect for 10 seconds, which turns the health bar black ( HP × 10 ) and decreases it by 1 HP every two seconds. Unlike Poison , this effect can cause death .
Wolves are aggressive toward wither skeletons, which retaliate when attacked. In Java Edition , wither skeletons flee from wolves because they are part of the skeleton family and wolves attack any mob from that family. [1] Despite being associated to iron golems, villagers and wandering traders are ignored by wither skeletons. However, a wither skeleton can retaliate if a firework rocket set by a villager hits it.
In Normal and Hard difficulties, some wither skeletons pick up dropped equipment. The chance depends on regional difficulty , with up to 55% of them capable of picking up swords higher than stone tier plus any armor . Wither skeletons never take bow s; in Java Edition , if they hold a bow (which can be done with / summon wither_skeleton ~ ~ ~ {equipment:{mainhand:{id:bow, count:1}}} ) they shoot flaming arrows even if their bows are not enchanted, dealing the same damage as a normal skeleton would plus an additional 4 HP of fire damage. If the wither skeleton is holding a tipped arrow or spectral arrow in its off-hand, it shoots that type of arrow, and the arrow held is not consumed. They cannot use crossbows .
Wither skeletons are immune to fire and the Wither effect. They still seek shade or water during daylight if they are in the Overworld , even though they do not burn in sunlight .
As they are also under the "skeletons" entity type tag , if a wither skeleton (only possible through commands) kills a creeper , the creeper drops a music disc , randomly selected from 13 , cat , blocks , chirp , far , mall , mellohi , stal , strad , ward , 11 , and wait .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Being an undead mob, they are:
Due to their height of 2.4 blocks, they cannot fit through openings 2 blocks tall.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wither skeleton have entity data associated with them that contains various properties. The wither skeleton is taller than the skeleton.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Wither Skeleton" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An iron golem is a buildable neutral mob that attacks monsters with its arms, knocking them into the air. Iron golems are created by villagers to patrol and protect their villages . Villager-created iron golems will retaliate against players if attacked, and are hostile to players that have low popularity or reputation with their village.
In Java Edition , villagers can summon iron golems , either when they are gossiping or every 5 seconds while panicking and the following criteria are met:
Iron golems still spawn even when the game rule doMobSpawning is set to false . [1]
To find a valid spawn point, up to 10 attempts are made to spawn a golem within a 17×13×17 box centered on the villager (villager block position ±8 blocks along x/z axes and ±6 blocks along y axis). A random y column is picked and then the topmost block in that column is selected that is air or liquid and has a " solid-blocking " block underneath.
The target location is then checked whether the block underneath has a solid top surface (which is not the same as "solid-blocking"). The target block and 2 blocks above must not be a full block, nor be redstone-powered, nor be rails, and the two blocks above must not be water. This means the iron golem can spawn inside 1-deep water or inside blocks like slabs, fences, and carpets (if other checks pass). Adjacent blocks are irrelevant, so golems can spawn partially inside adjacent solid blocks. [2] However, the spawning iron golem still must not collide with any existing entities.
In Bedrock Edition , an iron golem can spawn naturally when a village first generates in the world. Iron golems also spawn in villages having at least 20 beds and 10 villagers. The golem attempts to spawn in a 17×13×17 volume, ±8 blocks horizontal and ±6 blocks vertical from the village's center block, which can be (but isn't necessarily) a bed pillow or a bell .
First, X and Z coordinates are randomly chosen within the spawn volume. Next, the highest block at those coordinates within the spawn volume is found. If it is a block with a full top surface — including glass , upside-down stairs , top slabs , hoppers (though this has varied with version), and even water (including source blocks) — and there is no obstruction above it by a block above the spawn volume, then the golem spawns there. Otherwise, the spawn attempt is canceled.
For a village to spawn iron golems, 75% of its villagers must have been able to work (reach their linked work block during a working period) in the past day [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ] , and 100% of them must be linked to a bed. Additionally, the village center must be within a player's simulation distance volume.
The maximum distance the player can be from the village for iron golems to spawn can be calculated with the following formulas. These are approximate because they yield a cuboid volume, but the simulation distance volume is an octahedral shape based on taxicab distance .
Iron golems can only spawn within the player's simulation distance volume, so if a village center lies close to the border of said volume, only part of the typical 17x13x17 golem spawn volume will be eligible for spawning.
If the village's original iron golem is killed, a new one cannot spawn unless all of the conditions are met. Therefore, a small village does not regenerate an iron golem unless the village is expanded.
If the spawn conditions are met, then the chance of attempting a spawn is 1 ⁄ 700 per game tick, which averages to one spawn attempt every 35 seconds. Iron golems can spawn provided the 2×3×2 space above the spawn point (that is, horizontally centered on the northwest corner of the block it spawns on) contains only non-full blocks, and the block it spawns on is solid-blocking .
An additional iron golem spawns for each additional 10 villagers beyond the initial population requirement, provided that the other requirements are met.
Iron golems are created by placing four iron blocks in a T shape (as shown in the image), and then placing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern on top of the center upper block. The pumpkin may be placed by the player, a dispenser or an enderman , but it must be placed last. Alternatively, the blocks can be placed in any order with an uncarved pumpkin ; the player can shear the pumpkin to spawn the golem.
When successfully created, the iron golem is naturally passive toward all players under all circumstances. It can, however, attack the player’s tamed wolves , if punched accidentally, but it never directly attacks the player. The constructed golem attacks hostile mobs like a naturally spawned iron golem.
The block arrangement can be placed upright, lying down, or upside-down. The four empty spaces in the diagram (above and below each of the arms) must be air blocks. Any non-air block (including blocks such as snow layers, grass , small flowers , and water ) present in any of the empty spaces prevent the golem from spawning.
Like other constructed mobs , iron golems always spawn facing south. Their large size may cause them to take suffocation damage from nearby solid blocks at the level of their head.
Iron golems can also be found surrounding pillager outposts , confined inside dark oak cages. When freed, they can help the player by attacking any nearby pillagers . Pillagers can technically attack iron golems in cages if they fall in, though it is unlikely that they will succeed on their own. Iron golems can also attack pillagers from within the cage due to being able to attack through 1 block walls, assuming that it sees a pillager through an air block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
In Bedrock Edition , trading prices are unaffected by the killing of iron golems; however, village popularity decreases by 10, affecting village iron golem behavior if the popularity ranges below -15.
Iron golems wander around a village in a patrol-like fashion, staying close to buildings and other structures. Like villagers , iron golems do not wander away from a village, regardless of how they were spawned, but sometimes stand at the border of the village.
An iron golem sometimes faces a villager as if they are conversing. Iron golems can spawn poppies in their hands and offer them to villagers and copper golems . Baby villagers‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [3] and copper golems accept the poppy offered by the iron golem. A copper golem that accepts a poppy has the poppy on top of the rod on their head. Attacking an iron golem that is not player-built while the iron golem is holding out a poppy causes it to take back the poppy and attack the player instead. If the iron golem sees a target while it is offering the poppy, it runs to attack them and inflict damage .
In Bedrock Edition , iron golems completely ignore villagers, pushing them aside while walking if a villager is in the iron golem's path, but they still offer poppies if possible.
If not within a village, iron golems slowly wander around attacking hostile mobs, (skeletons, zombies, etc.) usually making their way to a nearby village. If in that village, the iron golem doesn't leave.
Iron golems can walk up a full block height without jumping and walk over a 1 block wide hole without falling in. They avoid water , lava , fire , and cactus . Iron golems are immune to both drowning and fall damage . When in water they sink to the bottom, but can still move laterally and walk up full blocks as if they were on land.
As with most passive and neutral mobs, iron golems can be leashed . The leashed iron golem does not try to break from the lead when it sees a hostile mob, instead looking at the mob while it moves. An iron golem that is leashed in mid-air moves its arms and legs while moving. If an iron golem is leashed to a fence, it attacks hostile mobs, but does not follow them if they leave the leash range as the iron golem cannot break free from fence leads.
In Java Edition , Iron golems that aren't provoked move slower. Iron golems move faster in Bedrock Edition , as its normal walking speed is fast regardless of being provoked.
Iron golems cannot pick up weapons or armor, but the player can use NBT commands in Java Edition or the / replaceitem command in Bedrock Edition to give the iron golem weapons or armor, although the armor or weapons are not visible.
When attacking, an iron golem moves quickly toward its target and swings its arms up violently to attack, flinging the target into the air and dealing damage in a random range set by difficulty , between as low as 4.75 HP × 2.375 damage on Easy difficulty and as high as 32.25 HP × 16.125 damage on Hard difficulty. Iron golems cannot attack targets that are 2.75‌ [ Java Edition only ] /3‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or more blocks above them. As such, standing on a three block pillar will allow players to attack golems below them without taking damage themselves.
It is possible for multiple golems to hit the same target simultaneously, flinging the victim to a height proportional to the number of golems that attacked.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [verify]
If an iron golem attacks a group of mobs, it targets one mob to attack until that mob dies before attacking a different mob, even while being attacked by other mobs.
If the mob is flung out of sight, the iron golem attacks the next mob that attacks it. Sometimes, the iron golem might attack the nearest hostile mob if they are in groups. [verify]
When an iron golem kills any mob, the player can obtain items dropped by the mob, but no experience orbs. An iron golem that kills a raid mob in Bedrock Edition also causes the mob to drop its raid loot, even when the mob wasn't attacked by the player before it was killed.
Iron golems never attack each other, as iron golems cannot "accidentally" hit another iron golem when attacking.
An iron golem built by a player never attacks players, even when hit or when the player attacks another villager or another golem in front of the player-built golem, though they will attack a player's tamed wolf if the wolf attacks the golem.
In Bedrock Edition , a naturally-spawned iron golem immediately becomes hostile toward a player who attacks a villager near an iron golem.
If a player has -15 popularity or less in a village, or has -100 or lower reputation with any nearby villager, naturally-spawned iron golems become hostile to that player until the player's popularity climbs above -15 and reputation with all nearby villagers goes above -100.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
A village iron golem retaliates when attacked by a player, even if the attack dealt no damage such as an ender pearl or snowball . If a village has more than one naturally-spawned iron golem and a player attacks one in front of the other(s), all iron golems of that type may become hostile to the player.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [verify]
Iron golems are not provoked by players who attack wandering traders . [4]
Although they are guardians of villages, iron golems are not actually provoked when a mob attacks a nearby villager (in contrast to a player attacking a villager‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] ), given that the iron golem is not already hostile to the type of mob by default. With the exception of creepers , goats , and sulfur cubes , they are provoked when attacked by any mob, and by the presence of nearby monsters. Even if a witch accidentally throws a positive splash potion at an iron golem during a raid, this does not stop the iron golem from attacking the witch. Iron golems are ineffective against flying hostile mobs that don't venture into the iron golem's reach, such as ghasts and phantoms .
The list below contains mobs that can have hostile interactions with iron golems. The iron golem also attacks neutral mobs or hostile mobs that can attack the player, such as piglins or zombified piglins.
A naturally-spawned iron golem knows where raiding illager locations are from behind solid walls and from underground and attempts to move toward them. An iron golem created by the player or summoned by a command cannot detect raiders through obstructions. Iron golems also look up or down if the hostile mob is above or below the iron golem.
Zombies (and variants), zoglins , skeletons (and variants), spiders , cave spiders , slimes , magma cubes , withers , ravagers and illagers naturally attack iron golems on sight and may cause major damage, especially if the mobs attack in groups. In Bedrock Edition , silverfish and witches also naturally attack iron golems without provocation.
Iron golems have 100% knockback resistance from normal attacks. However, they can be knocked back by wind charges and the Wind Burst enchantment.
Iron golems have different stages of being cracked to show their health. When their health is at or above 75%, they do not have any cracks. When their health is at or above 50% but lower than 75%, some cracks appear. When their health is at or above 25% but lower than 50%, they appear more cracked. When their health is lower than 25%, many cracks are visible.
Using an iron ingot on an iron golem removes one deterioration level, or in other words, adds 25 HP × 12.5 to its health, consuming the ingot.
Like villagers, iron golems in Bedrock Edition use a strategy of pathfinding that prioritizes walking on certain "low-cost" blocks.
Smooth Sandstone
Stone Stone Bricks Sandstone Cut Sandstone Chiseled Sandstone Smooth Sandstone Mossy Cobblestone Slabs Planks Bricks Nether Bricks Red Nether Bricks End Stone Bricks Red Sandstone Cut Red Sandstone Chiseled Red Sandstone Smooth Red Sandstone Stained Glass Glass Glowstone Prismarine Block of Emerald Block of Diamond Block of Lapis Lazuli Block of Gold Block of Redstone Glazed Terracotta
Lectern Composter Grindstone Blast Furnace Smoker Fletching Table Cartography Table Brewing Stand Smithing Table Cauldron Barrel Loom Stonecutter
Iron golems attempt to walk on a one-block-wide path, despite them being two blocks wide. An iron golem favors a wider path if it sees one.
Iron golems can climb ladders or vines if the ladder or vine is in its path, or if pushed onto a ladder or vine.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Iron golems have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Iron Golem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A snow golem is a buildable passive mob that throws snowballs at monsters, which provokes them into attacking it. Depending on the biome temperature , it also either produces a trail of snow or takes heat damage and dies.
Snow golems are created by stacking two snow blocks vertically, and then placing a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern on top of the stack. The pumpkin may be placed by the player , a dispenser , or an enderman . [1] Snow golems cannot be made by pistons . The building pattern also works when arranged sideways or upside-down, as long as the pumpkin is the last block placed.
The snow golem spawns at the location of the snow block as its feet when created horizontally.
A snow golem drops 1 carved pumpkin when sheared.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Snow golems wander aimlessly and try to avoid water , obstacles, and environmental hazards, but are immune to damage from powder snow . They are also immune to fall damage .
Snow golems take 1 HP damage per tick when in contact with rain or water and in biomes with a temperature greater than 1.0. Examples include savannas ,‌ [ Java Edition only ] badlands , deserts , and biomes in the Nether . The Fire Resistance effect allows them to survive in these biomes.
As a snow golem moves, it leaves a trail of snow on the ground if the blocks can support it [2] . In Java Edition , this happens in any biome. In Bedrock Edition , however, the snow trail is not generated in biomes with a high temperature value; examples include jungles , mushroom fields , savannas , stony peaks , deserts , badlands , and biomes in the Nether . If the mobGriefing game rule is false , the snow trail does not appear.
Snow golems move toward all monsters (except ghasts and undead mounts ) and throw snowballs at them up to 10 blocks away, provoking them, regardless of whether they attack the player. [3] When captured, they throw snowballs up to 16 blocks away (in Euclidian distance ). They throw one snowball per second. Thrown snowballs do not deal damage except to blazes , but they still knock back any mobs that they hit.
Additionally, snow golems also attack creepers . They never intentionally attack the player. In Bedrock Edition , if a snowball hits the player, it deals knockback and makes tamed wolves and trusting foxes attack the snow golem.
In Bedrock Edition , a snow golem's snowballs can also set other mobs on fire if the shot flies through a lava block or a block that is on fire.
A snow golem is not provoked by another golem (snow or iron) attacking it, although an iron golem that is hit accidentally by a snow golem's snowball attacks the snow golem.
A snow golem wears its carved pumpkin like a helmet . Its actual head is hidden beneath the pumpkin. Shearing a snow golem removes the pumpkin, revealing its derpy face and making it drop the pumpkin. The pumpkin is stored using the Pumpkin tag instead of ArmorItems ; a snow golem does not display its HandItems or its ArmorItems . In Java Edition , after shearing the pumpkin, the player can give a snow golem a new pumpkin only by using a command, such as / data .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Snow golems have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Snow Golem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Villagers are humanoid passive mobs that inhabit villages , work at their professions (see Villager professions ), breed , and interact with each other. Their outfit varies according to their occupation and biome , and a player can trade with them using emeralds as currency, with their prices affected by reputation.
Each villager spawns with an empty inventory . Villagers never spawn with armor or other equipment, but in Java Edition a dispenser can be used to equip armor on a villager.
Villagers can be found in villages , which spawn in several biomes such as plains , snowy plains , savannas , deserts , taigas , and snowy taigas ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] and can cut into other biomes such as swamps and jungles . When the village is generated, unemployed villagers spawn in them, the number of which depends on the buildings in that village, as some buildings generate villagers inside and some do not.
Igloo basements always generate with one villager in the left cell and one zombie villager in the right cell.
Giving a zombie villager the Weakness effect and then feeding it a golden apple starts the curing process. After five minutes, it transforms into a villager, displaying purple Nausea status effect particles for 10 seconds after being cured.
The villager retains the profession it had, if it had one before turning into a zombie villager. If employed, a cured villager offers discounts on most of its trades.
In Bedrock Edition , if the zombie villager is spawned by a player, it adopts a randomly chosen profession. The villager can also be a nitwit, but it becomes a normal unemployed villager when cured.
In Java Edition , curing a zombie villager riding a chicken results in the villager riding a chicken. Eventually, the villager grows up and gains a profession while still being on the chicken.
Farmers using bone meal when farming have an 8.5% chance to drop it when killed by a player or tamed wolf. Each level of Looting increases the chance by 1% per level. Adult [2] villagers can drop armor equipped through dispensers . Otherwise, a villager, whether it is an adult or a baby, does not drop any items or experience when killed.
When a villager dies or is converted to a zombie villager, any items in its hidden inventory slots are lost (see § Picking up items ).
If a villager is displaying a trade item to offer a deal, they will not drop it upon death. However, in Java Edition , carpets (held by shepherds ), leather horse armor , and saddles (held by leatherworkers ) can be removed using shears . Villagers do not drop any other trading -related items.
Upon successful trading, a villager drops 3–6 XP .
Upon successful trading, while willing to breed , 8–11 XP is dropped.
Curing a zombie villager with any armor or held items causes it to drop them as items.
In Java Edition , a villager can drop various items, depending on its profession, by throwing a gift toward a nearby player with the Hero of the Village effect. The gift is randomly selected from a list of items for the villager's individual profession, and there is a random cooldown before the villager can throw another gift.
Nitwit and unemployed villagers leave their homes at day and begin to explore the village. Generally, they wander inside the village during the day. They may go indoors or outdoors, periodically making mumbling sounds. Occasionally, two villagers may stop and turn to look at each other, in a behavior called socializing, during which they stare at another villager for 4–5 seconds at a time. They continuously stare at a nearby player unless the villager is trying to get into a house at night, farm food, work, or flee from a zombie or illager. Baby villagers may jump on beds and play tag with each other, similarly to how baby piglins and baby hoglins play tag.
In Bedrock Edition , baby villagers do not stop in order to stare at players, and thus continue moving as if the player is not there.
A villager tries not to travel far from its bed in a large village unless the job site or the nearest gossip site ( bell ) is far away.
Villagers emit green particles if they join a village, set a bed, or acquire a job site/profession.
Villagers run inside at night or during rain, closing doors behind them. They attempt to sleep at night, but if they cannot claim a bed, they stay indoors near a bed until morning. In the morning, they head outside and resume normal behavior. However, some villagers, such as nitwits, stay outside later than others unless being chased by an illager or zombie .
If a villager finds itself outside the village boundary, or a villager without a village detects a village boundary within 32 blocks, it quickly moves back within the boundary. A villager taken more than 32 blocks away from its village boundary forgets the village within about 6 seconds. Whether in a village or not, a villager never despawns .
Villagers, like most other mobs, can find paths around obstructions, avoid walking off cliffs of heights greater than 3 blocks, and avoid some blocks that cause harm. However, in crowded situations, one villager can push another off a cliff or into harm's way.
Villagers can open all wooden and copper doors and find paths to blocks of interest behind the doors. However, they cannot open any trapdoors, fence gates, or iron doors. Villagers can climb ladders , but do not recognize them as paths and do not deliberately use them. Any climbing of ladders seems to be a side effect of them being pushed into the block by another mob (usually by other villagers). Climbing a ladder can leave a villager stranded on the second floor and roof of some village structures, as they lack the necessary AI to intentionally descend ladders.
Like other passive mobs, villagers sprint away when attacked, but they also flee from some nearby mobs even before being attacked.
Zombies , zombie villagers , husks , drowned and zoglins attack villagers and cause them to flee.
Pillagers , vindicators , evokers , illusioners and ravagers cause villagers to flee but only attack adults. Vexes also cause villagers to flee but only attack adults when spawned by an evoker .
Pufferfish , wardens and withers attack villagers but don't cause them to flee until actually attacked.
When pathfinding , villagers prefer to stay on low cost blocks, such as dirt paths , cobblestone , bricks , and planks . They do this by trying to minimize the path cost of all of the blocks they walk across. They also avoid jumping, because it has a high path cost, but babies don't avoid it as much.
Block of Diamond Block of Emerald Block of Lapis Lazuli Block of Gold Block of Redstone Bricks Cobblestone Chiseled Sandstone Chiseled Red Sandstone Cut Sandstone Cut Red Sandstone End Stone Bricks Glass Glazed Terracotta
Glowstone Mossy Cobblestone Nether Bricks Planks Prismarine Red Nether Bricks Red Sandstone Sandstone Slabs Smooth Sandstone Smooth Red Sandstone Stained Glass Stone Stone Bricks
Barrel Beds Blast Furnace Brewing Stand Cartography Table Cauldron Composter
Fletching Table Grindstone Lectern Loom Smithing Table Smoker Stonecutter
Unemployed villagers (other than babies and nitwits) seek employment at job site blocks (also referred to as workstations), and employed villagers use job site blocks to refresh their trades (see § Working ). Villagers who have made their first trade must claim a site block that corresponds with their profession, whereas tradeless villagers may change their profession to match a site block.
In Java Edition , an unemployed villager claims job site blocks by searching for the nearest unclaimed site in a 48-block sphere. When a suitable site block is detected, the villager starts pathfinding to it, staking a provisional claim. This can occur only while the villager is awake. A provisional claim is released if the villager cannot reach the block within 60 seconds, however the villager may try again immediately. [3] To fully claim the site and change profession, the villager must approach within a 2-block radius of the job site's center. When a job site block is fully claimed, its owner emits green particles, and no other villager can claim the block unless the owner relinquishes it.
In Bedrock Edition , all villagers in a village search for unclaimed job sites in a 16 block radius and 4 block height. If a site block is found, it is added to a shared list of valid job site blocks for the whole village. An unemployed villager with a bed claims the first site block on that list and immediately acquires the profession to match, regardless of the distance or accessibility to the site block. [4] The villager can even claim the site block while sleeping. When a job site block is claimed, both the block and the villager making the claim emit green particles and the site block is removed from the list. If a villager cannot pathfind to its claimed site, both the site block and villager emit anger particles. The site block may need to be broken or interacted by a piston before the villager unclaims it. [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
Villagers can store positive and negative memories about players and share them with other villagers. A player's reputation is determined by these memories, and can be changed by trading with, curing, attacking and killing villagers, which influences trading prices and the hostility of iron golems .
Killing a villager increases the value of the corresponding gossip for all villagers whom it has a line of sight inside a box extending 16 blocks from the villager in all coordinate directions. Trading with, curing or attacking a villager only increases the value of the corresponding gossips for the targeted villager. Attacks and kills only result in negative gossip when villagers can determine their source, so indirect methods like fire , lava and suffocation from falling blocks can be used to kill villagers without losing reputation.
Villagers can share gossip by talking to each other, though the shared gossip's value will be decreased by the sharing cost. Because the cost of sharing the major gossip gained from curing is greater than its maximum, it can never be shared.
Every 20 minutes, all gossips of a villager decays by the amount in the "Decay" column. This rate does not depend on the time of day and cannot be sped up by sleeping. Because the decay of the major gossip gained from curing is 0, the gossip is permanent.
A player's total reputation with a villager is determined by multiplying each gossip's value by its respective multiplier and adding the results together.
When trading , villagers will change prices based on reputation. In Bedrock Edition negative reputation can only cancel out positive reputation and other price discounts but not increase the price.
Iron golems that were not built by players become hostile toward all players whose reputation is -100 or lower with any villager within a box centered on the golem and extending 10 blocks in every horizontal and 8 in both vertical directions.
Each profession can have certain items it is especially interested in. This does not have many mechanical effects, other than affecting which items villagers will pick up and share. Currently, only one profession makes use of this system:
Each villager has eight hidden inventory slots, which are initially empty when the villager is spawned. A villager can fill its inventory slots with items it picks up.
In Bedrock Edition , a villager does not intentionally seek out items to pick up, but does collect any bread , carrots , potatoes , wheat , wheat seeds , beetroot , beetroot seeds , torchflower seeds , pitcher pods , and bone meal within reach.​ [ more information needed ] Only farmers can pick up seeds, wheat, and bone meal.
In Java Edition , a villager seeks out and picks up these items within 4 blocks:
The listed items are the only items villagers can pick up, although the / item replace command can put any arbitrary item into a villager's inventory.
If a player and a villager are in the pickup range of an item at the same time, the player always picks it up first. If several villagers are next to an item, the same one picks up the item every time. This behavior prevents villagers from successfully sharing food or breeding in a small space.
When killed or converted to a zombie villager, any inventory item of the villager is lost, even when / gamerule keepInventory is set to true .
If / gamerule mob_griefing is false , villagers cannot pick up items, and farmer villagers cannot plant or harvest crops.
Like other mobs, villagers have four slots for worn armor , separate from their inventory slots. An adjacent dispenser can equip armor, elytra , mob heads or carved pumpkins to a villager,‌ [ Java Edition only ] [5] but the armor is not rendered (except for carved pumpkins and mob heads). The equipment functions as normal; for example, a villager wearing an armor piece enchanted with Thorns can inflict Thorns damage to attackers, and a villager wearing Frost Walker boots is able to create frosted ice . If a villager is converted into a zombie villager, the armor it was wearing is dropped, though it may be able to pick it up and equip it again. A villager with Thorns III deals more damage to zombies that attacked the villager than the villager takes damage.
Different food items provide villagers with different amounts of nutrition points:
In Java Edition , this is controlled by the villager_food item component.
Villagers will not eat food until they are about to breed. When this happens, they will consume food items from their inventory, starting at the first inventory slot and working their way forward, until they have reached or exceeded 12 nutrition points, and then immediately spend 12 nutrition points on the act of breeding. Depending on how the food is ordered in the villager's inventory, this can leave the villager with unspent nutrition points for next time.
In Java Edition , when a villager is interacting with another villager, they will try to share items under the following circumstances:
When trying to share items, the villager will scan through its inventory for the first item stack that contains the correct kind of items, and which is either more than half the maximum stack size or more than 24 items. If the stack that is found is more than half the maximum stack size, the villager will throw half the items in the stack (rounded down) to the other villager. If the stack that is found is not more than half the maximum stack size, but is more than 24 items, the villager will throw enough items to reduce the stack size to 24. If no item stack of sufficient size is found, nothing will be thrown.
There is no delay between sharing attempts, so a villager may continue throwing more items immediately if they are still eligible. For example, a villager with 60 bread may throw 30 bread (half the stack size), and then immediately throw 6 more bread (30 − 24), throwing a total of 36 bread. The other villager can also share items, until all villagers have shared all items they can.
Since sharing will never empty an inventory slot, the only way villagers can free up inventory space for new items is by eating food during breeding, or by planting seeds and using bonemeal if they are a farmer. If a non-farmer picks up seeds or bonemeal, they will have no way of getting rid of them. [6] [7]
A bait villager can be used in a farm taking advantage of this mechanic to have a farmer villager collect and deposit crops.
In Bedrock Edition , if a villager has enough food in one inventory stack (6 bread or 24 carrots, potatoes, beetroots, or 18 wheat for farmers only) and sees a villager without enough food in one inventory stack (3 bread, 12 carrots, 12 potatoes, or 12 beetroots for non-farmers; 15 bread, 60 carrots, 60 potatoes, or 60 beetroots, or 45 wheat for farmers), the villager may decide to share food with that villager.
To share, a villager finds its first inventory stack with at least 4 bread, carrots, potatoes, or beetroot or with at least 6 wheat, and then throws half the stack (rounded down) in the direction of the target villager. When wheat is shared, it is first crafted to bread, which may result in 1 or 2 less than half the stack being shared.
Farmer villagers can tend planted wheat , carrots , potatoes , and beetroots , harvesting them if they are fully grown or bonemealing them if possible. They then share their harvested food with other villagers to breed.
Adult villagers breed depending on the time of the day and need to be willing to spawn § Baby villagers , who require beds with at least two empty blocks above their heads. Job sites are not required for villagers to breed.
Breeding depends on the number of valid beds. If a villager is "willing" (see § Willingness below), villagers breed as long as there are unclaimed beds available within the limits of the village. All baby villagers are initially unemployed.
In Java Edition , two villagers nearby one another periodically enter mating mode if both have enough food and are not on cooldown. Breeding fails (with angry villager particles displayed) if no unclaimed bed can be reached via pathfinding within a 48-block radius. The appearance of the child is randomly determined by either the biome type of the parents or by the biome where the breeding occurred.
In Bedrock Edition , a census is periodically taken to determine the current population of the village. All villagers within the horizontal boundary of the village are counted as part of the population to determine if continued villager mating is allowed. However, any villager within the horizontal boundary of the village and the spherical boundary of the village attempts to enter mating mode as long as there is at least one villager within the boundary. If two villagers simultaneously enter mating mode while they are close to one another, they breed and produce a child. The appearance is determined by the biome where the breeding occurs in Bedrock Edition .
Villagers must be willing to breed. Willingness is determined by the number of nutrition points a villager has access to. If the total nutrition points of all the food in a villager's inventory, plus any unspent points they have left over from last time, is 12 or greater, a villager is willing to breed. When breeding occurs, the villager will consume enough of their food to reach 12 or more unspent nutrition points and immediately use up 12 of them, even if breeding fails to produce a baby villager. After successfully breeding, villagers cease to be willing for 5 minutes, at which point they must gather a sufficient stock of food items to breed again.
Villagers must have enough beds within village bounds‌ [ Java Edition only ] /loaded terrain‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [ verify for Bedrock Edition ] for baby villagers to spawn. The villager must be able to path-find to the bed from its current position. (Note that mobs view certain blocks, such as slabs, trapdoors, etc., as full blocks for pathfinding, so putting these types of blocks above a bed invalidates the bed.)
Villagers can become willing by having either 3 bread , 12 carrots , 12 potatoes , 12 beetroots , or any combination that adds up to enough nutrition. Any villager with an excess of food (usually farmers) throws food to other villagers, allowing them to pick it up and obtain enough food to become willing. The player can also throw bread, carrots, beetroots, or potatoes at the villagers themselves to encourage breeding. If / gamerule mobGriefing is false , villagers don't pick up food or break crops.
Baby villagers (sometimes called children, or child villagers) sprint around, entering and leaving houses at will. They sometimes stop sprinting to stare at other villagers, the player‌ [ Java Edition only ] , or an iron golem . If the iron golem is holding out a poppy , a child may cautiously take the flower from its hands. Baby villagers tend to group and chase one another around the village as if playing tag. They also jump on beds.
Illagers (except "Johnny" vindicators in Bedrock Edition ) ignore baby villagers until they reach adulthood.
Baby villagers give gifts of poppies or wheat seeds to players who have the Hero of the Village effect in Java Edition .
Baby villagers can fit through 1×1 block gaps.
A baby villager becomes an adult 20 minutes after birth, even when in a boat or a minecart. Baby villagers with no AI do not grow up.
Golden dandelions do not work on baby villagers.
When lightning strikes within 3–4 blocks of a villager, the villager is replaced by a witch that can't despawn. Even a baby villager that is struck by lightning is turned into a two-block-tall witch.
Iron golems will attack any villagers that turn into witches.
In Java Edition , villagers can summon an iron golem to protect themselves from hostile mobs. This requires either a villager panicking in a group of 3 villagers or 5 gossiping villagers. If they don't find an iron golem within 16 blocks of their location for 30 seconds, another one is summoned.
In Bedrock Edition , villagers can summon an iron golem if there are more than 10 villagers per existing golem, the village has at least 20 beds, and 75% of these villagers must have worked in the past day.
Villagers sometimes panic during a raid or a zombie siege by emitting water particles (sweat) and shaking.
In Java Edition , villagers panic if they see a mob that is hostile toward villagers, like a zombie, zombie villager, husk, drowned, zoglin, illager, vex, wither, or ravager and flee frantically from them, sometimes hiding in houses.
In Bedrock Edition , villagers panic by running around in circles around a bed in a village house, such as when a raid happens or when the player rings the village bell.
Java Edition villagers in panic are more likely to summon iron golems. To see these mobs, the villager must have an unobstructed line of sight to it (eye-level to eye-level), and be within a certain range (spherical distance between feet center bottom-most point of the villager and hostile mob):
Zombies, zombie villagers, husks, and drowned seek out and attack villagers within a 35– to 52.5–block radius (depending on regional difficulty )‌ [ Java Edition only ] or a 16-block radius‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] (even when the villager is invisible). Zombies attempt to break down doors , but only a fraction of zombies can do so and can succeed only when difficulty is set to hard. Zombies who cannot break doors tend to crowd around a door that separates them from a villager. If a zombie or a drowned comes across a set of doors with one open, it usually tries to go through the closed door.
All zombies either kill villagers or convert them into zombie villagers . The chance of the villager becoming a zombie villager upon death depends on difficulty , being 0% on Easy, 50% on Normal, and 100% on Hard. Baby villagers can be infected by zombies as well, becoming baby zombie villagers. Drowned are able to convert villagers into zombie villagers even when attacking with a trident from a distance.
During a raid , villagers flee from illagers and run to the nearest house , similar to a zombie siege . For a villager to hide, the house must have a door and at least one bed.
Before the first raid wave in Java Edition , at least one villager rushes to ring the bell in the center of the village (if they are close enough) to warn the other villagers of an incoming raid before going into their house. In Bedrock Edition , the bell rings automatically regardless of whether a villager is nearby. In Java Edition , when a bell is rung, all illagers within 48 blocks get the glowing effect for 3 seconds.
A villager often stays in the house it first entered, but may exit the house occasionally. The player can still trade with villagers during a raid .
In Java Edition , the villager displays water particles on random occasions as if sweating.
In Java Edition , once the player gains the Hero of the Village status after defeating a raid, villagers give them a discount for their trades and throw them gifts related to their profession. In Bedrock Edition , the villagers do not throw the player gifts, but they still give them a discount for their trades.
Villagers stare at any player that stares at them, or goes near them, even if they have the Invisibility effect. This also applies for some mobs, especially cats . A villager first turns its head toward the player, then the body. Villagers can keep staring at the player unless a raid happens or a zombie comes and chases them off.
Villagers have set schedules depending on their age and employment status. Schedules define the villager's goals, which mostly determine how they behave throughout the day. However, their goals can be interrupted by higher priority behaviors most villagers have, such as fleeing from an attack, trading, and getting out of the rain.
Employed villagers spend most of their day standing next to their job site blocks. From time to time, they "gather supplies" by wandering a short distance away, then returning.
Some professions have additional job-specific goals that are part of their work schedule:
When a villager reaches its job site block, it commences "work". Two times a day, working resupplies any locked trades, even without having a bed or while sitting in a minecart. A villager can "reach" its job site block if the block is in any of the 8 directly adjacent or diagonal block spaces horizontally around it at the height of their feet, or at the 9 blocks below that. Villagers can still "reach" them diagonally, even if they can't see or touch the face of the block.
Employed villagers do not breed with each other during their work schedule. Nitwits and unemployed villagers do not follow this rule, as they can breed with each other and employed villagers that are not working.
Leatherworker villagers can work at any cauldron, not only their job site block. Also, the cauldron does not have to be filled with water in order for the villager to work at it.
All villagers wander from time to time, but for the unemployed and nitwits, they wander for the majority of their day. A wandering villager chooses a random block and walks toward it, then stands there for a variable amount of time before wandering again. If at any time it detects a job site block it can claim, it does so, assumes the skin for the associated profession, and immediately begins following the appropriate schedule.
A villager attempts to claim a job site block by finding a path to a block next to one, showing angry particles when unable to reach it. After a villager fails to reach the job site block several times, it becomes unclaimed, indicated by showing angry particles on it. The villager loses its job site block and eventually becomes unemployed if the villager is at novice-level and no nearby job site block is available. Any other nearby unemployed villager has a chance to become the block's new owner. If there are no unemployed villagers nearby, then the villager who lost the job site block seeks for another unclaimed one or tries to reclaim the same unreachable one in an endless loop (this also happens for claiming beds).
The wander schedule includes a job-specific goal called "exploring the outskirts" that causes villagers to wander near the edges of the village. This enables them to detect new beds, job site blocks, bells, and houses that players have used to extend the village. ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
During this time of the day, they may also share items.
Late in the day, adult villagers gather at a meeting place (the area around a bell ). When two villagers encounter one another, they mingle (look at each other and "converse" by humming at other villagers). They may also share food, or breed if both are willing.
If a villager isn't close enough to detect a bell, it wanders randomly, searching for one.
Baby villagers wander randomly around the village. When they encounter another baby villager, the two of them follow each other for a while and sometimes run as if racing or chasing each other.
In Java Edition , they sometimes stop to jump and bounce on a bed or to stare at an iron golem they encounter. In Bedrock Edition , if the iron golem offers them a poppy, the baby villager cautiously accepts it.
All villagers head home a short time before sunset. They roam around until they get near their beds, then target a block beside the bed. The bed's head must be accessible for the villagers to "see" it. Once they reach their beds, they do not go through a door again before sleeping.
A villager who has no bed simply waits inside a house until morning. This includes players stealing a villager's bed to sleep in, mostly the villager stays in the house and doesn't move until sunrise. But sometimes, if they detect an unclaimed bed nearby they walk out of the house and toward the bed.
At sunset, villagers lie down in their beds and remain there until morning. Villagers wake early if food is thrown at them‌ [ Java Edition only ] , they are pushed out of bed, or if their bed is destroyed. They also wake up when their bed is used , if they are attacked , or when a bell is rung. If possible, they return to sleeping in a bed after the interruption.
Jumping on a bed with a villager sleeping in it does not cause the villager to get up.
In Java Edition , a villager can be pushed on its bed and sometimes turn its head. A villager can be pushed off a bed, [8] but is most likely to go back to sleeping after staring at the player who pushed the villager for a few seconds.
When sleeping in Java Edition , a villager's hitbox reduces to a cube restricted to the pillow part of the bed. If an anvil is dropped on the hitbox, the villager takes damage and wakes up and the anvil is dropped as an item.
In Bedrock Edition , dropping an anvil on a villager that is sleeping causes the villager to take damage but remain sleeping in the bed and the anvil remains on top of the bed.
A villager who has no bed continues wandering in search of a bed to claim.
Villagers follow their Overworld schedules regardless of which dimension they are in. They can sleep in the Nether or the End , without causing the usual consequences of the bed exploding (See Bed § Sleeping ), if the Overworld's time is correct. [9] This is because the daylight cycle continues in these dimensions, even though it is not normally apparent to the player.
Sometimes when a villager gets in a bed from another direction they turn their body until their head is on the pillow of the bed. Villagers also sleep with their eyes open.
A villager gets a brief regeneration effect once leveling up in its profession. Pink regeneration particles ( ) appear while it is healing.
In Bedrock Edition , when a villager successfully sleeps, they immediately heal themselves when waking up at dawn (if they are hurt).
Each villager can have a profession except for the nitwit, indicated by their clothing as well as by the title at the top of the trading interface . A villager can choose their profession by claiming a job site block. When they go to work, they use their daily schedule to get to their claimed job site block. Some professions, like farmers and librarians, do other things. Farmers plant crops, and librarians can inspect bookshelves‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [verify] . If an adult villager does not have a profession (either they are unemployed or a nitwit), they wander instead.
A job site block can be claimed only if it is unclaimed. Removal of a claimed job site block causes the owner to switch to another profession or become unemployed, provided that the villager has no prior trades with the player. If the villager has prior trades, it keeps its profession and claims a new job site block that matches its profession if one is available. This means that once a player trades with a villager, the villager keeps its profession forever.
Nitwits and baby villagers cannot change their profession.
In Java Edition , villagers summoned by a spawn egg or via command / summon are always unemployed until they have claimed a job site block. In Bedrock Edition , however, villagers summoned in similar ways have a random profession [10] ; their profession can be changed by a job site block, however.
Novice-level villagers who have not yet traded can lose their profession and change into unemployed villagers.
Unemployed adults actively seek for an unclaimed job site block and change into the corresponding profession.
Below is a table listing the various professions, along with the specific job site block that each profession requires (13 jobs in total, not including unemployed/nitwit):
Nitwit villagers wear robes that are green on top. They cannot change their profession, trade , or gather around bells , but are still able to breed. They are not equipped with a level stone since they cannot trade.
In Java Edition , pressing use on a nitwit causes it to grunt and bobble its head at the player . A nitwit must be born or spawned; no villagers change to nitwit from unemployed or a profession, and vice versa. Due to a bug, nitwits cannot spawn in through breeding. [11] As such, they can only be found naturally or by curing naturally spawned zombie villagers. Zombie villagers can also be spawned as babies, so this is the only way to encounter baby nitwits in Survival mode.
In Bedrock Edition , every baby villager has a 10% chance to become a nitwit when they become an adult, as well as having a different sleep schedule where they wander around the village for about 2000 ticks (1 minute 40 seconds) after other villagers go to sleep, before seeking a bed. If they can claim a bed, they arise in the morning 2000 ticks after the rest of the village wakes up.
Villagers and zombie villagers have seven skin types corresponding to the biome they spawn in. Their appearance also varies based on their profession and their five tiers. They show which trade tier they have unlocked by a badge of a varying material on their belt. A new tier is obtained every time a player trades with a villager and the badge appears as stone, iron, gold, emerald, and diamond.
Villagers have different outfits depending on their biome. Naturally generated villagers take on the outfit from the biome they were spawned in. When breeding occurs, the outfit of the child is determined by the biome where the breeding occurs, but in Java Edition , there is a 50% chance it's inherited from the biome type of the parents (equal chance for both parents). In case the villager's outfit is determined by biome but the biome has no specific villager type, it always becomes a plains villager. The outfits available are the following:
The trading system is a gameplay mechanic that allows players to buy and sell various items to and from villagers, using emeralds as a currency. Their trades can be valuable or somewhat meaningless, depending on the cost, the items the player might get, and how the player treats the villagers.
Only adult villagers with professions can trade; the player cannot trade with nitwits, unemployed villagers, or baby villagers. Attempting to do so causes the villager to display a head-bobbling animation and play the villager's declined trade sound‌ [ Java Edition only ] .
Pressing the use control on an employed villager allows a player to trade, making offers based on the villager's profession and profession level. All offers involve emeralds as a currency, and items related to the villager's profession.
Trading can allow the acquisition of items that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to obtain, such as enchanted books with "treasure" enchantments (e.g. Mending ), bottles o' enchanting , or chainmail armor .
When a villager gets a new trade, they receive 10 seconds of Regeneration I (totaling to 4 HP of restoration), which emits pink particles. The villager also emits green particles suggesting contentment.
Completing a trade with a villager increases its professional level, and makes the villager drop 3–6 XP ; while willing to breed , instead, 8–11 XP is dropped. Some trades grant higher levels to the villager than others. As it advances through its profession, the villager offers additional trades. When a villager unlocks a new trade at a higher level, it almost always grants more experience than lower-level trades.
Villagers have a maximum supply of items and after the player has traded for an item that many times, the villager's supply of the item is exhausted. This results in the trade being temporarily locked. A player can continue to trade for the villager's other available items if any. Exhausted items are restocked when the villager works at a job site, up to twice per day .
Clicking use on an unemployed or nitwit villager in Java Edition causes it to grunt and bobble their head; doing so in Bedrock Edition does nothing.
Using a name tag on a villager always names the villager instead of opening the trading interface.
In Java Edition , using space inside of the trading interface after one trade was made refills the trading slots with items from the inventory. [verify]
The price of an item can rise and fall with changes in demand. The price of a traded item can rise when next resupplied, or fall from a risen price if not traded. Demand is stored per item, not per villager.
When a player holds an emerald or other item near a villager who wants that item, the villager holds up an item it offers in exchange. In Bedrock Edition , villagers raise their arms when showing trade items. For example, a farmer villager who buys 20 wheat for one emerald holds up an emerald, offering it to a player holding wheat.
If the villager has more than one trade for an item, it cycles through the trades, offering a different item every few seconds. This kind of trading interaction makes it easier to find villagers who offer a particular trade, but the player must still open the trading interface to complete the trade. Note that villagers do not hold items to offer trades during their gather or sleep phases , even though it is still possible to trade with them.
Villagers do not offer trades that are currently out of stock.
Villagers have various professions that progress through experience-based levels, unlocking new trade tiers.
In Bedrock Edition , villagers increase their prices of trades if a player's popularity is low, (e.g. from damaging villagers), and decrease it if their popularity is high (e.g. from trading with multiple villagers). Curing a zombie villager also increases the player's popularity by 10.
In Java Edition , a villager's prices are affected by the player's reputation with that villager rather than by village popularity.
When a player receives Hero of the Village , players receive discounted prices on all the items traded by villagers in both editions. The Hero of the Village also gets gifts.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Each villager throws gifts related to its profession, and nitwits and unemployed villagers throw wheat seeds instead. These gifts range in value from common (like seeds ) to rare items (like chainmail armor ).
A player's popularity increases by 10 in Java Edition and doesn't increase in Bedrock Edition . Villagers also shoot off fireworks , with different colored fireworks with no pattern.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Villagers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Baby villagers in Java Edition before Tiny Takeover ( Java Edition 26.1 ):
Baby villagers before Tiny Takeover ( Bedrock Edition 26.10 ):
Issues relating to "Villager" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A wandering trader is a passive mob similar to villagers that sometimes spawns near players , alongside two trader llamas tied to it with leads . It can be traded with, buying commonly available resources and selling items mostly native to specific biomes . Its trades are randomized each time it spawns, and it will despawn after enough time has passed.
Wandering traders spawn randomly with two leashed trader llamas in the Overworld near the player, in any biome except in the void biome, controlled by the #minecraft:without_wandering_trader_spawns biome tag in Java Edition . They typically spawn within a 48-block centered box of a player. In Bedrock Edition , they also try to spawn by a claimed bell in a village .
When the world is created (or updated from an older version), a counter is initialized to 24000 ticks (20 real-life minutes, or 1 Minecraft day). Each minute (1200 ticks), if spawn_wandering_traders is set to true ,‌ [ Java Edition only ] the counter is decreased by 1200. When the counter reaches 0 it is reset to 24000 and an attempt may be made to spawn a wandering trader, unless the game rule spawn_mobs ‌ [ JE only ] or domobspawning ‌ [ BE only ] is set to false .
When the counter is equal to 0 or lower for the first time, there is a 25% chance of making the attempt, which increases to 50% the second time and 75% thereafter until a trader is spawned, or no player is found for the attempt, where it will then be reset to 25%. If a player is found, then there is a 10% chance for a wandering trader to spawn. In summary, when the counter is equal to 0 or lower, the total chance that a trader will spawn will be either 2.5%, 5%, or 7.5%, with the chance getting higher each time a spawn attempt fails.
When attempting a spawn, a random player is selected as the target location. If there is a bell within 48 blocks of the player, then the nearest such bell is used as the target location instead. Ten attempts are then made to find a valid mob spawning location. This is made on the uppermost block of a random X/Z position within -48/+47 of the target location on each axis. In Java Edition , the game uses the highest Y-level "surface" block for these attempts, so the wandering trader will not spawn inside enclosed caves. If spawning the trader succeeds, an additional ten attempts are made for each of two trader llamas to find a position within -4/+3 of the trader in Java Edition . In Bedrock Edition , the trader always spawns together with its llamas on the same block. Wandering traders and their llamas can still spawn if the passive mob cap is full.
In Bedrock Edition , when using spawn eggs or the / summon command to spawn a wandering trader, llamas always spawn with it. Furthermore, wandering traders never spawn if / mobevent minecraft:wandering_trader_event is set to false .
In Java Edition , a wandering trader despawns after being within both render distance and simulation distance for 48000 ticks (40 minutes, or 2 full Minecraft days), although ticks spent with the trading UI open are not counted. In Bedrock Edition , a wandering trader despawns after being loaded for either 48000 ticks (2 full Minecraft days) or 72000 ticks (3 full days) and the nearest player is more than 24 blocks away from it. In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders also immediately despawn if all trades are used up and the nearest player is more than 24 blocks away.
Unlike most mobs, naming the wandering trader with a name tag and/or placing it in a boat / minecart does not prevent it from despawning. [1] This also includes wandering traders as passengers of other mobs in Java Edition , where it still despawns if summoned on top of another mob.
When a wandering trader is unloaded, either by moving into unloaded chunks or entering another dimension , its despawn timer freezes.
In Java Edition , wandering traders spawned via / summon , spawn eggs or spawners have a default DespawnDelay value of 0, meaning they do not despawn after 48000 ticks.
After spawning, the wandering trader prefers to wander within 16 blocks of the initial spawning target location, even if that player leaves, if not otherwise reacting to nearby players or mobs. [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
Wandering traders drink a potion of Invisibility during dusk and as needed to renew the effect during the night. They also drink milk if invisible during the day to remove the Invisibility effect.
Wandering traders avoid zombies and their variants ( zombie villagers , husks , drowned , zombified piglins , zoglins ), all illager variants ( pillagers , vindicators , evokers , illusioners ‌ [ Java Edition only ] ), ravagers , and vexes , staying at least 8 blocks away. Unlike villagers , a wandering trader killed by zombies does not become a zombie villager . [2] Witches do not attack wandering traders during raids .
Wandering traders drink potions of Invisibility if hurt by magic attacks or projectiles from hostile mobs (but not players), or when avoiding illagers, vexes, and zombies.‌ [ BE only ]
When attacked by a player , a wandering trader flees from the player as a villager would do. The trader llamas , however, attack the player by spitting if their master gets hit, except in Peaceful . The llamas stop attacking if the player is killed and respawns, if the llamas are leashed after the wandering trader is killed, or if the player gets far enough away from them for a short period of time.
The wandering trader can sometimes form a caravan, due to wild llamas that follow the leashed trader llama(s).
Despite their similarities to villagers, attacking or killing wandering traders does not anger iron golems . [3]
Like villagers and witches, wandering traders do not visually sit down when riding objects such as boats and minecarts . [4]
In Bedrock Edition , when a player holds an emerald or other item near a wandering trader who wants that item, the wandering trader holds up an item it offers in exchange, similar to villagers.
The trading system is a gameplay mechanic that allows players to buy and sell items , in this case from a wandering trader.
Pressing the use control on the wandering trader allows a player to view the different trade offers, similar to a villager. Different offers are visible in a list, and clicking on one of the offers moves the corresponding items to the slots above the player's inventory . All offers involve emeralds as a currency.
Wandering traders typically sell items generated in the world or otherwise related to nature, such as plants , dyes , and buckets of fish . They can also trade less common items, such as coral blocks , blue ice , or nautilus shells . Overall, trades offered by wandering traders offer a way to obtain biome-specific materials, without having to travel to the specific biomes. They will also buy a select few items from the player, giving emeralds in return.
After the player uses the same trade several times, the wandering trader locks the trade, but unlike villagers, never unlocks the trade. The wandering trader can appear again around the player with new trades after a while.
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders show available items once the player holds the required item, similar to villagers .
Wandering traders do not have the novice-master trading system like villagers. Instead, the player can buy anything from the wandering trader without the need of unlocking the previous trades.
Wandering traders do not increase the prices of its items being sold if attacked by the player, but does decrease the price if the player has the Hero of the Village effect in Bedrock Edition .
Unlike villagers , wandering traders do not have an experience bar or career levels, and do not modify their offers or prices based on changing demand. This (the trade items or prices) can be changed by the player by editing the corresponding NBT data flag through the use of the / data ‌ [ JE only ] command.
Wandering traders are the only renewable source of sand , red sand , coral blocks , and small dripleaves without glitches.
The wandering trader cannot work at a job site block and restock, even when summoned with a villager profession or other villager data.
The wandering trader offers nine trades in total, always consisting of two purchase trades, two special trades, and five ordinary trades.
These trades in each of these groups are not divided into categories; for example, a single wandering trader can sell 2 different saplings. Each individual trade is equally likely.
In the trading GUI, the trade offers are always listed in this order:
In the third drop of 2026 ​ [upcoming] , wandering traders can also sell:
A wandering trader is also a source of leads , as it typically spawns with two leashed trader llamas . These leads break and drop (at the location of the llama) if either trader or llama dies, if they are separated, or if the player uses shears to snip the lead(s). Shearing the wandering trader has no effect. The leads can only be sheared off the llamas.
Separating mobs upon leads have the connection broken, dropping the leads if they enter boats for example. Unless they enter the same boat at the same time, every lead is always broken if at least one moves into a boat (or minecart ).
Wandering traders do not drop any loot or experience when killed (except for the consumables mentioned above).
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders reward experience after a successful trade.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wandering traders have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Wandering Trader" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A wolf is a neutral mob that can be tamed using bones . Tamed wolves defend their owners against attackers and can assist in combat. Wolves can also be equipped with wolf armor , but only if tamed.
Wild wolves spawn naturally in multiple biomes on grass blocks , coarse dirt , snow (in Java Edition only on 8 layers of snow), snow blocks or podzol . In Bedrock Edition , they have a 10% chance of spawning naturally as a baby. Their appearance and the amount of wolves that attempt to spawn depend on the biome.
Wolves have 9 color variants, each of which spawns in a different biome. Most variants spawn in packs, with some having larger or smaller packs.
When a wolf pack spawns near a biome border, individual wolves of the pack might take on a different appearance if their spawn location is in a bordering biome. [1]
Wolves spawned in jungles or bamboo jungles (using spawn eggs , monster spawners , commands , or due to a wolf pack bordering these biomes) spawn as rusty wolves; wolves in savannas or windswept savannas spawn as spotted wolves; wolves in badlands or eroded badlands spawn as striped wolves. Wolves in all other biomes spawn as the pale variant.
For pictures of individual color variants, see § Gallery .
Wolves have seven sound variants: Big, Classic, Cute, Puglin, Angry, Grumpy, and Sad. These variants are meant to reflect a wolf's personality, [2] but have no effect on the wolf's behavior.
Wolf sound variants are assigned independently of a wolf's spawning biome, with a 14.2% chance of spawning for one of each sound variant. Wolves will make the sounds associated with their variant when they make bark, pant, whine, growl, death, or hurt sounds. Sound variants are unrelated to color variants. Similarly, the angry sound variant is unrelated to the angry wolf state.
For the sounds of each sound variant, see § Sounds .
Adult wolves drop 1–3 XP experience orbs when killed by a player or a tamed wolf. In Bedrock Edition , a tamed wolf that is killed by its owner does not drop experience.
Wolves wearing wolf armor always drop their wolf armor when they die, regardless of what kills them.
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP are dropped.
Like other baby animals, baby wolves will drop no experience when killed.
Wolves exhibit three different states depending on how the user interacts with them:
A wolf becomes hostile to a player or other mob that attacks it unless the attacker is the wolf's owner, or is otherwise on the same team, or if killed in one hit. It also causes wild wolves and standing tamed wolves in a 33×21×33 cuboid centered on the attacked wolf to become hostile to the attacker, allowing coordination for attacks and team hunts (only in wild wolves).
In Java Edition , any tamed wolf attacked by a player/mob causes all standing wolves on that team to attack that player/mob who attacked the tamed wolf.
Skeletons and their variants, foxes, baby turtles and passive rabbits actively avoid both tamed and wild wolves. Killer rabbits ‌ [ JE only ] attack wolves actively. Sheep ignore wolves, but flee when attacked by one. Sheep ignore tamed wolves but also do not flee from them.
When a player within 8 blocks holds meat or bones near a wolf, the wolf tilts its head as if to 'beg' for the food for 2 to 4 seconds.
The behavior of baby wolves is the same as adult tamed wolves. Baby wolves have large heads, similar to other baby animals.
Wolves are 0.85‌ [ JE only ] or 0.8‌ [ BE only ] blocks tall and baby wolves are 0.425‌ [ JE only ] or 0.4‌ [ BE only ] blocks tall.
The textures of the wolves are tinted dark gray once submerged in water.
In Peaceful difficulty , attacking a wild wolf aggravates the wolf and its group, but they deal no damage to the player .
Standing tamed wolves wander randomly when near their owner, but follow if more than 10 blocks away and teleport to a nearby free block (if any) if more than 12 blocks away. Besides making travel easier, teleportation can be used to rescue them from lava , water or pits, as they immediately teleport to a safe area.
Tamed wolves teleport to their owner if they are more than 12 blocks away, unless the owner is not directly touching the ground [verify] (e.g. using elytra , swimming, flying, in a boat ).
Tamed wolves teleport to a block on the edge of a 5×1×5 region centered on the player. This block must be transparent , with a solid block below and another transparent block above. If no such block can be found, the wolf does not teleport.
It is possible for tamed wolves to teleport to an inaccessible location (e.g. under ice ) and be injured or die of suffocation as a result. This happens when the wolf considers transparent blocks, such as glass or slabs , to be open. [verify]
Wolves cannot teleport across dimensions . As such, if the player is in another dimension than the wolf, it remains in its current dimension and automatically sits until the player allows it to stand. However, wolves can be transported to another dimension by pushing them into the portal first.
Tamed wolves do not teleport if:
Wolf teleportation is completely silent. [5]
A wolf can be tamed by feeding it bones . Once tamed, a wolf does not accept any more bones. The number of bones required is random: each bone has a 1 ⁄ 3 chance of taming the wolf. If the wolf is tamed, it receives a red collar and, in Java Edition , sits if not swimming . There is no limit to the number of wolves that a player can tame. A wolf cannot be tamed if it is hostile or already tamed. Wolves that are tamed by the same player can accidentally attack each other while attacking another mob, leading to a fight. [verify]
A tamed wolf's tail rises and lowers depending on its health . The exact health of an individual wolf can be determined by measuring the angle between its hind legs and tail. The angle indicates the percentage of health that the wolf has. Tamed wolves whine when they have low health (below 20 HP × 10 ‌ [ JE only ] / 10 HP ‌ [ BE only ] ). Untamed wolves have a maximum health of 8 HP ; the position of an untamed wolf's tail does not depend on its health. Tamed wolves, as well as untamed wolves in Bedrock Edition , can be healed by feeding them any of the meat and fish items listed below.
Wolves do not get hunger from eating rotten flesh and raw chicken , nor poison from eating pufferfish . Feeding any meat item to a tamed wolf that is already at full health starts the " love mode " animation.
A tamed wolf's collar color can be changed by the owner using one of the sixteen colored dyes on the wolf.
Using a wolf spawn egg on a tamed wolf makes the baby automatically be tamed to the parent wolf's owner.
Using wolf armor on a wolf that the player has tamed equips it onto the wolf.
Wolf armor absorbs all damage done to the wolf with some exceptions (see the list below), until its durability runs out. When the armor absorbs damage, the wolf does not produce a hurt noise.
Baby or untamed wolves cannot wear armor.
Wolf armor does not absorb damage dealt by the following sources:
If the owner uses shears on a wolf that is wearing armor, the armor gets unequipped from the wolf.
If a wolf dies while equipped with wolf armor, the armor is dropped.
A wolf armor's durability is 64 Durability points. It can make a cracking sound in certain points. Damage particles appear as the armor goes down 60, 44, and 20 points.
Repairing wolf armor recovers 8 durability points per armadillo scute . When merged with another wolf armor via crafting table or anvil it also gives a 5% durability bonus.
Tamed wolves at full health can be bred with any type of meat, including rotten flesh and raw chicken without causing the hunger status effect (see the list above). In Java Edition , rabbit stew and any type of fish can also be used to breed wolves. There is a 5-minute cooldown in Java Edition and a 1-minute cooldown in Bedrock Edition for breeding, during which the wolf does not accept meat. In order to breed, both wolves must be standing.
Baby wolves have a 50% chance of being the same variant as either of its parents. Similar to a sheep 's wool color, the color of a baby wolf's collar is a mix of the colors of the parents' collars, if it is possible to mix them; otherwise, one of the parents' collars is randomly chosen.
Similarly, breeding two wolves with different sound variants or a single one will produce a baby with a randomized sound variant.
Baby wolves take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow, but the growth time can be accelerated using any type of meat; in Java Edition , rabbit stew and any type of fish can also be used. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up.
Breeding two wolves that recognize someone else as an owner causes the baby to also be owned by the owner of the original two wolves. If two tamed wolves have different owners, the baby is randomly assigned to one of their two owners as its permanent owner.
In Java Edition , if an untamed wolf is fed any type of meat or fish, it enters love mode but doesn't look for a partner and cannot breed.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride a wild wolf to form a jockey .
Java Edition : Wolves use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity–dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wolves have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Wolf color variants can be configured using JSON files within a data pack in the path data/<namespace>/wolf_variant .
Java Edition : Wolf sound variants can be configured using JSON files within a data pack in the path data/<namespace>/wolf_sound_variant .
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Wolves when they were in development uploaded by Jeb as shown below.
MC Spotlight video (2012):
Issues relating to "Wolf", "Wolves", or "Dog" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A cat is a passive mob found in villages and swamp huts . They can be tamed and used to repel creepers and phantoms .
In Java Edition , cats can spawn every 1200 ticks (1 minute). A random player is selected (including spectators) and a random location is chosen 8-32 blocks away from the player horizontally in both directions and at the same height . If that chosen block is less than 2 chunks from a village (including zombie villages) [ verify for Java Edition ] with fewer than 5 cats, or inside a swamp hut , then a cat can spawn.
Untamed cats spawn in villages as long as there are at least five claimed beds within 48 blocks and at most four cats within a 97×17×97 box centered around the spawn position. Cats that spawn with the creation of a village do not despawn , however, any additional cats that spawn within a village may despawn. A village cat spawns with a random appearance, although black cats may spawn only during a full moon ; which works in both Java Edition [verify] and Bedrock Edition , where 50% of cats are black. The spawning of cats in villages is a separate process from the natural spawning of passive mobs and thus is not affected by the Creature mob cap. In Bedrock Edition , 25% of cats spawn as babies.
In Bedrock Edition , a village periodically spawns stray cats to fill a quota of 1 cat per 4 owned beds, up to a maximum of 5 cats for 20 or more owned beds. Only owned beds (those currently claimed by a villager) are counted for this purpose. All cats within the village boundaries are counted, including baby cats, cats that wander in from outside, and tamed cats owned by a player. If the number of cats found is short of the quota, the village tries to spawn one cat or baby cat within a volume of 17×13×17 blocks centered on the village center, similar to iron golems .
One untamed black cat generates alongside a witch inside swamp huts upon world generation . This cat never despawns. Additional cats can spawn within the hut similarly to witches. In Java Edition , any other cats that spawn within the swamp hut (from spawn eggs and commands without cat type set) always spawn as black. A new cat does not spawn in a hut if there is already a cat within a 16×8×16 block volume.‌ [ Java Edition only ] [verify]
Cats have 2 sound variants: Classic and Royal.
A sound variant is chosen randomly upon the mob spawning, and is not related to the mob's skin variant. These sound variants have no effect on the mob's behavior.
For the sounds of each sound variant, see § Sounds .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP is dropped.
Like other baby animals, killing a baby cat yields no items or experience .
There are currently eleven variants of cats in the game:
Cats wearing a collar are considered tamed. When a cat is initially tamed, the collar appears red by default. However, using one of the sixteen colored dyes on the cat by the owner of the cat changes its collar to the corresponding color.
Despite sharing the same model , cats are smaller than ocelots .
The cat variant Jellie was chosen by the community from three finalists [1] of an online contest in 2018 [2] . Jellie was submitted to the Cat Contest by her owner GoodTimesWithScar. Jellie died in January 2024 at the age of 17. [3]
In the default resource pack , a texture file for a tamed gray tabby exists; [4] ‌ [ BE only ] however, it is completely unused and cannot be spawned in-game.
Cats are immune to fall damage , but they still avoid falling off cliffs high enough to normally cause fall damage.
Creepers and phantoms avoid cats, even while pursuing a player , keeping a distance of 6 and 16 blocks away respectively from any cats. However, a creeper that has begun its detonation does not flee unless the player leaves its blast radius. Cats hiss at phantoms that are currently pursuing a player.‌ [ JE only ]
Cats can see players even if they have the Invisibility status effect.
Baby cats have a faster movement rate but otherwise have the same behavior as adults.
A stray cat is an untamed cat. Naturally spawned cats always spawn as stray cats. Unlike untamed wolves , stray cats may despawn naturally. They pursue and attack rabbits and baby turtles they see within 15 blocks. Similar to ocelots , they sneak and stalk their prey until they are within 4 blocks, then chase it down. Even though they spawn in villages, they don't necessarily remain there; instead, they explore.
Stray cats sprint away from any player within 7 blocks, and actively try to avoid players within 16 blocks. However, they slowly approach a player holding raw cod or salmon within 10 blocks, allowing the player to feed and tame it (see § Taming below). If the player turns too quickly or stops holding the fish within 6 blocks, the cat flees and does not attempt to approach the player for a few seconds.
Stray cats can be leashed.
Unless commanded to sit (see § Taming below), tamed cats do not remain still for long and explore around the player.
A cat not already sitting attempts to get on top of chests , the foot part of beds , or active furnaces at the cat's current Y-level within a 4-block-radius square horizontally. Once on top, it often assumes a sitting position without a command from the player. A cat also occasionally attempts to sit on these blocks if the blocks are at ground level. A chest with a cat sitting on top of it becomes unusable unless the cat is commanded to stand.
Cats that sit on their own can be ordered to stand by commanding them to sit and then stand again, or they may get up if the player holds a raw fish nearby. The cat can also be brought down by removing the block or pushing it off. A cat does not sit on a block that is obstructed by another block above it. A cat can also be forcibly moved by attacking it, and while fleeing for some time, it sporadically sits and stands before finally staying put.
Like other mobs, cats enter nearby boats and moving minecarts , trapping themselves. A cat in a boat will always appear standing, but still maintains its sitting/standing status it had when entering the boat, and can still be made to change between "standing" and "sitting" by pressing use on it, despite no visual change. A "sitting" cat released from a boat will then immediately re-assume a sitting position. Similar behavior exists for minecarts.
Tamed cats, like stray cats, can be leashed.
If a player is harmed by a hostile mob or a harming potion, but not by environmental damage, a cat sitting in proximity to the player stands, moves a few blocks from its sitting location, then resumes sitting.
When the player sleeps, tamed cats move toward their owner and sleep near them by lying on the bed. When the player wakes, their tamed cats also wake. There is a 70% chance for a tamed cat to give the player a gift after they wake up, but only if the player sleeps at night; if the player sleeps during a thunderstorm during the daytime, or if the tamed cat has been ordered to sit, the player receives no gift. The gift is a dropped item from the cat_morning_gift.json loot table:
After a cat gives a gift, both the cat and the gift are located in the general area of the bed the player slept on, including on the other side of walls or floors.
If a player has multiple standing tamed cats in the area, only the tamed cat that sleeps on the player may provide a gift. If all standing tamed cats in the area are prevented from reaching the player (i.e. trapped in minecarts or boats), then in Java Edition each cat has a 70% chance of providing a gift while in Bedrock Edition only one cat may give a gift.
In Java Edition , in order for a standing tamed cat in a minecart or boat to drop a gift, it must be within a 10-block radius centered on the block above the head of the player's bed.
Similar to tamed wolves, tamed cats teleport to their owner if they are more than 12 blocks away, except as listed below. It is possible for a tamed cat to teleport to an inaccessible location (e.g., under ice ) and be injured or suffocate as a result.
A cat does not teleport:
Cat teleportation is completely silent. [5]
Stray cats can be tamed using raw cod or raw salmon (see Behavior for how to approach a cat). Each raw cod or raw salmon has a 1 ⁄ 3 chance of taming the cat. Once tamed, cats follow the player who tamed them. They do not despawn, no longer fear the player, and purr or meow frequently. Like wolves , and with the same limits, they can teleport to a player who moves 12 blocks away.
The player can order a cat to sit or stand by pressing use on it. If the player is holding a raw cod or salmon when commanding a cat to sit or stand, the fish is given to the cat instead, causing it to enter love mode. Once in love mode, the player can command a cat to sit or stand while holding a fish. Cats also sit on certain things of their own accord (see § Tamed cat ).
Using a cat spawn egg on a tamed cat makes the baby automatically be tamed to the parent cat's owner.
When tamed cats are fed a raw cod or salmon , they enter love mode. Breeding creates a baby cat, and the parents cannot breed again for 5 minutes. The baby has the coloring of and belongs to the owner of one of the parents. The color of a baby cat's collar is a mix of the colors of the parents' collars, if it is possible to mix them; otherwise, one of the parents' collars is randomly chosen.
Two sitting cats are unable to breed, but a mobile cat can breed with a sitting cat, in which case the mobile cat's owner also owns the baby.
Baby cats take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using cod or salmon. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up.
When breeding 2 cats of separate owners on a multiplayer server, the user who joined first automatically gets the baby. [verify]
An injured tamed cat restores 2 HP health when fed a raw cod or salmon by its owner. Unlike tamed wolves , a tamed cat's tail is not an indicator of its health.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult untamed cat to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cats have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Added cats, which can be tamed from ocelots .
Issues relating to "Cat" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A horse is a passive mob that can be ridden when tamed and saddled , and can wear horse armor . Different horses have different run speeds, jump heights and health points, and these attributes can be inherited and improved through breeding .
Horses spawn in plains and savannas in herds of 2–6. For horses, all combinations of color and markings are equally likely. All members of the herd have the same color, but markings may vary. 20% of all individual horses spawn as babies. In Java Edition , all individual horses spawn as adults when using spawn eggs. [3]
Villages naturally generate with stables and animal pens containing horses.
Each horse variant has unique features and markings, and a foal. Adult horses are 1.4 blocks wide and long, and 1.6 blocks high. Foals start at half the size of adults. Unlike wolves and cats , horses do not change appearance once they have been tamed, although tamed horses may be differentiated by giving them equipment.
Horses can have 1 of 7 base colors: white, creamy, chestnut, brown, black, gray, and dark brown; and 1 of 5 marking patterns: no markings , white stockings and blaze , white field , white spots and black dots . In total, there are 35 possible horse coat combinations.
1–7 XP upon successful breeding .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Killing a foal yields neither items nor experience.
Horses wander aimlessly, occasionally stopping to rear, flick their tails, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep , the eating animation does not actually cause any grass to be consumed. If a player comes near, the horses may turn to look at them. Any horse, even a wild or undead horse, can be attached to a lead without protest. Horses remain passive, even when hit.
Horses make neighing and whinnying sounds.
Horses can ride in boats , but not in minecarts .
Horses can safely fall 7 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Horses also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded down) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a horse, they take fall damage as normal, counting from the entity's safe fall distance; however, they also safely fall 7 blocks without taking damage.
Horses have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Horses can be led by a player holding a golden carrot , golden apple , or enchanted golden apple . Foals follow adult horses.
A horse with a rider can be pulled by a lead, and can even be lifted into the air.
Taming a horse is required to breed it, to give it equipment, or to control it while riding.
In Java Edition , a player mounts a horse by pressing use on it with an empty hand . In Bedrock Edition , the player can also hold an object that cannot be used on a horse. An adult horse can be tamed by repeatedly mounting it until the horse stops bucking the player off. Taming depends on the horse's "temper". Horses begin with a temper of 0 out of 100. When a player first mounts the horse, a random taming threshold 0–99 is chosen. The horse becomes tame if the temper exceeds this threshold. Otherwise, the player is bucked off and the temper is increased by 5, to be compared against the threshold the next time the player mounts the horse. Temper can also be increased by feeding the horse.
After repeated mountings, hearts appear above the horse, indicating that it is tamed.
In Bedrock Edition , like all tame animals, a death message is displayed to every player when a horse is killed.
Feeding two tamed horses golden apples or golden carrots activates love mode , causing them to mate and produce a foal. The foal appears more spindly than adult horses. The foal can be fed to make it mature faster.
Depending on the variations of the parent horses, the offspring can be one of several types.
This is a table representing the probabilities of the color and markings of the foal when breeding two horses A and B.
Feeding a horse food can alter its behavior, increase its temper (if untamed), cause it to grow (if it is not yet an adult; foals normally take 20 minutes to fully mature if not fed), and/or restore its health.
Only living horses can be fed. Undead variants like zombie and skeleton horses cannot and do not need be fed, as they will not starve.
The table below lists the effects of the various foods horses can eat.
To feed a horse, hold a valid food item and press use on the horse.
In Java Edition , tamed horses cannot be fed when at full health, but they can be fed in Bedrock Edition .
In Bedrock Edition , the health of foals cannot be restored by feeding.
In Bedrock Edition , while temper is at max value, untamed horses with full health can be fed any food except hay bales.
In Java Edition , tamed horses with full health cannot be mounted while holding a food item.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult untamed horse to form a jockey .
All horses have three "equine stats" that vary from horse to horse: health, (maximum) movement speed, and jump height. These stats are created once the horse is born or spawned, and are not affected by food.
When spawned in any way except breeding – for instance, using commands, spawning naturally, or using spawn eggs – horses are assigned their stats within certain ranges.
Horse's health points range from 15 HP × 7.5 to 30 HP × 15 , with an average of 22.5 HP × 11.25 . A horse with an odd number of health points does not show the last half-heart. So if a horse has 15 health ( ), its health bar will only display 14 health ( ). And if the horse took 3 HP damage, it would have 12 health left , but it would seem like it only took 2 HP , since the bar only shows 2 points of damage.
A horse's movement speed ranges from 0.1125–0.3375 in internal units, with an average of 0.225. For reference, the player's normal walking speed is 0.1. The speed listed does not include any status effect that affects the speed of the horse or the player.
The conversion factor between internal units and blocks/sec is roughly 43.17, putting the best horse's maximum speed at about 14.57 blocks/second, and the average horse's speed at about 9.71 blocks/sec.
See also transportation methods to compare the speeds of various transportation methods.
Horse's jump strength ranges from 0.4–1.0, with an average of 0.7 in internal units.
The minimum jump strength of 0.4 is enough to clear 1.153 blocks, while the maximum of 1.0 is enough to clear 5.9197 blocks. The calculation, however, is not linear with the average jump strength of 0.7 favoring the lower side with the value of 3.124 blocks. [4]
When breeding two horses, or a horse and a donkey, the baby's stats are determined by the following formula, run for each stat individually:
If the resulting value is
the difference towards that allowed extreme is respectively subtracted/added from/to the value.
Although the game performs these operations on the internal attribute values, they can just as well be applied to the in-game values for movement speed and jump height.
A pseudocode implementation might look like this, wherein MIN and MAX represent the extremes Minecraft allows the attribute to assume. Additionally, x and y represent the values the parents hold.
A foal has an 11% chance to be a random base color and a 20% chance to have random markings. Otherwise, it chooses the values from one of its parents.
Tamed and saddled horses can be used as a means of transportation . When ridden, they are able to move faster and jump higher than a normal player. Horses can be used to climb hills and jump fences, as some can jump high enough to clear up to five block heights, versus the player's maximum of about one (without jump boost).
Horses can be pulled along and tied up using a lead . They can be towed behind a boat by using a lead.
Tamed horses have two equipment slots:
Foals cannot be equipped, as they cannot be ridden.
Equipment can be placed on a horse by holding it and then using on the horse, or by accessing its inventory. A horse’s inventory can be accessed by mounting the horse and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using or pressing the "open inventory" button‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on the horse. The player cannot open their inventory while on an untamed horse, though they can open containers.
The equipment can be removed by two methods:
Once a horse is tamed and saddled, the player can control it with standard directional controls, jump , and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control. Like riding other entities, it is impossible for a player to use a nether portal or end portal while on a horse.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
A ridden saddled horse automatically runs up any one block high slope. The horse and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The horse itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. Horses cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap.
The maximum speed of horses varies between 4.86 blocks/second and 14.57 blocks/second (compared to the player's walking speed, which is about 4.317 blocks/second). About 82% of horses are able to go faster than a minecart. Horses move backward slowly, about as fast as the player when moving sideways. A horse’s speed can also be affected by potions. Speed has no relation to a horse’s outward appearance. However, how fast a horse walks on its own while not being ridden can be an indication of its Speed. This can be useful to determine whether or not a horse is fast without first having to tame it.
A ridden saddled horse can be made to jump by pressing the jump control. Holding the jump control fills a jump charge bar allowing for a higher jump when released relative to how much the bar was filled. In Java Edition , when the player rides a horse, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by a jump bar and the player's hunger bar is replaced by the horse's health bar. In Bedrock Edition , the player's health bar and hunger bar are displayed while riding a horse and the player's experience bar is replaced by the horse's jump bar when the jump control is activated. During the jump control activation the number denoting the player's experience level is still displayed above the jump bar. If a horse has the jump boost effect, it will not multiply the jump but will increase the maximum jump height, however horses are not affected by jump boost beacons, the effect must be applied by potions or commands. When a player's gravity attribute is higher or lower than the default the player will automatically be dismounted upon jumping or upon landing a jump.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Horses have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Variant names taken from the names of the texture file they correspond to.
Summoning a horse without specifying the Variant value results in a white horse. Summoning a horse with a correct color byte but an incorrect marking byte results in a horse of the corresponding color but no markings. Summoning a horse with a correct marking byte but an incorrect color byte results in a white horse with the corresponding markings.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Added horses.
The models of horses have been simplified to be more consistent with other mobs.
Issues relating to "Horse" or "Foal" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A donkey is a passive mob similar to a horse that, when tamed , can be saddled , ridden and equipped with a chest to transport items .
In Java Edition , donkeys spawn commonly in meadows in groups of 1-2, and less commonly in plains in groups of 1-3 and savannas individually. 20% of all individual donkeys naturally spawn as babies. All donkeys spawn as adults when using spawn eggs, unless the spawn egg is used on a donkey. [1]
In Bedrock Edition , 2-6 donkeys spawn in plains, 1-2 in meadows and 1-3 in savannas.
Adult donkeys are 1.4 blocks wide and long, and 1.6 blocks high. Baby donkeys start at half the size of adults and in Bedrock Edition , get progressively bigger as they age. Unlike wolves and cats , donkeys do not change appearance once they have been tamed, though tamed donkeys may be differentiated by giving them equipment.
Donkeys are smaller than horses and sport long, erect ears. Their manes do not protrude, but rather are drawn directly on the back of their heads and necks. All donkeys have gray-brown coats with darker ankles, ears, manes, and tails. Donkeys can be equipped with a saddle but cannot wear horse armor , and they can also be equipped with chests to store up to 15 stacks of items.
1–7 XP experience orbs upon a successful breeding .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Killing a baby donkey yields no items nor experience.
Donkeys roam around idly, occasionally stopping to rear, swish their tails, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep , the eating animation does not actually cause any grass to be consumed. A donkey may turn to look at a player who comes near. Any donkey, even a wild one, allows itself to be attached to a lead without protest. However, if the player attempts to saddle an untamed donkey, it rears and flails its front hooves. Donkeys remain passive, even when hit.
Donkeys can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Donkeys also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a donkey, they receive the same fall damage as the donkey.
Donkeys occasionally emit a braying sound.
Adult donkeys cannot ride a boat , though babies can.
Donkeys have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Adult donkeys can be tamed. In Java Edition , a player mounts a donkey by pressing use on it with an empty hand. In Bedrock Edition , the player can also hold an object that cannot be used on a donkey. A player tames an adult donkey by repeatedly mounting it until the donkey stops bucking off the player and shows hearts. It is necessary to tame a donkey in order to breed it, give it equipment, or ride it for any length of time.
Taming depends on the donkey's "temper". They begin with a temper of 0 out of 100. When a player is riding the donkey, a random number between 0 and 99 is chosen. The donkey becomes tame if this number is less than the temper, otherwise, the temper is increased by 5 and the player is bucked off. Temper can also be increased by feeding the donkey.
While riding an untamed donkey, a galloping sound is audible, more or less rapid. This gives a general idea of the donkey's speed.
Like all tamed animals, a death message is displayed to their owner if they are killed.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Feeding tamed donkeys golden apples or golden carrots activates love mode .
Baby donkeys appear more spindly than adults. A baby donkey can be fed to make it mature faster. A baby donkey is not tamed, and can be tamed after it grows into an adult.
Cross-breeding a donkey with a horse creates a mule baby. Mules cannot breed.
Feeding a donkey food may alter its behavior and cause it to grow (if it is not yet an adult; baby donkeys normally take 20 minutes to fully mature if not fed) and restore its health.
In Bedrock Edition , the health of baby donkeys cannot be restored by feeding.
In Java Edition , feeding tamed donkeys at full health has no sound effect and movements. [2] [3] In Bedrock Edition , while temper is at max value, untamed donkeys can be fed any food except hay bale.
To feed a donkey, hold a valid food item and press use on the donkey.
The table below lists the effects of the various foods donkeys can consume.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult untamed donkey to form a jockey .
All donkeys have three "equine stats": health, (maximum) movement speed, and jump strength. In Java Edition , each of these can vary between individual donkeys. In Bedrock Edition , only health can vary. These stats are created once the donkey is born or spawned, and are not affected by food.
When spawned in any way except breeding – for instance, using commands, spawning naturally or using spawn eggs – donkeys are assigned their stats within certain ranges, specific according to their horse type.
Donkey's health points range from 15 HP × 7.5 to 30 HP × 15 , with an average of 22.5 HP × 11.25 . A donkey with an odd number of health points does not show the last half-heart. So if a donkey has 15 health ( ), its health bar will only display 14 health ( ). And if the donkey took 3 HP damage, it would have 12 health left , but it would seem like it only took 2 HP , since the bar only shows 2 points of damage.
A spawned donkey's speed value is always 0.175, which leads to its actual movement speed being 7.56 m/s. For reference, the average walking speed is 0.1, equivalent to 4.3 blocks/sec, and the average sprinting speed is equivalent to 5.6 blocks/sec. The speed listed does not include any effect that affects the speed.
See transportation to compare the speeds of various transportation methods.
A spawned donkey's jump strength is always 0.5, enough to clear 1 9 ⁄ 16 blocks.
When breeding two donkeys, the baby's stats are determined by a variation of the average of both parents' stats, randomly determined the same way horses' stats are.
In Bedrock Edition , all donkeys have a speed value of 0.175 regardless of whether they were spawned or bred.
In Java Edition , a bred donkey's speed value has the same limits as horses, between 0.1125 and 0.3375. See Horse#Movement speed .
In Bedrock Edition , all donkeys have a jump strength of 0.5, regardless of whether they were spawned or bred.
In Java Edition , A bred donkey's jump strength has the same limits as horses, between 0.4 and 1.0. See Tutorial:Horses#Jump_Strength .
Tamed and saddled donkeys are some of the fastest means of transportation or hauling in the game, although they are unable to fit through single block-wide openings. They can also be used to climb hills and jump fences, which the player can't generally.
Donkeys can be equipped with chests and used as pack animals. They can also be pulled along and tied up using a lead .
Tamed donkeys can have the following slots available:
A saddle can be equipped on a donkey by holding it and then using on the donkey, or by accessing its inventory. A donkey’s inventory can be accessed by mounting the donkey and using the inventory control, by using while sneaking , or by pressing the "open inventory" button‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on the donkey. The saddle can be removed by either removing it from the donkey's inventory or by using shears on the donkey.
A donkey can be equipped with a chest by using a chest on the donkey. The chest cannot be removed except by killing the donkey, which causes the chest and its contents to drop.
Baby donkeys cannot be equipped with anything.
Once a donkey is tamed and saddled, the player can control it with the standard directional controls, jump , and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control. Like riding other entities, it is impossible for a player to use a nether portal or end portal while on a donkey.
A ridden saddled donkey automatically runs up any one block high slope. The donkey and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The donkey itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. They cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap.
Unlike horses, all naturally spawned donkeys have the same movement speed and jump strength. Donkeys are slow-moving backward and about as fast as the player when moving sideways.
Ridden saddled donkeys have the ability of "jump charging". In Java Edition , when the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by the jump bar, and the hunger bar is replaced by the donkey's health bar. In Bedrock Edition , both bars display, and the experience bar is replaced by the jump bar only when jumping, with the experience level number remaining visible. A ridden saddled donkey can be made to jump , and holding the control charges for a higher leap. Donkeys are not affected by Jump Boost beacons.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Donkeys have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Donkey" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A mule is a passive mob created by breeding a horse and a donkey together. It is very similar to a donkey, except it cannot breed.
Mules do not spawn naturally, but a mule can spawn through cross-breeding a horse with a donkey . Mules cannot breed with other mules.
20% of mule spawn eggs produce baby mules.
Mules are the offspring of horses and donkeys and are closer to (but not quite) the size of a horse. Their ears, coats, and manes are like those of a donkey, though mules' coats are darker and reddish-brown. Like donkeys, mules cannot be equipped with armor but can be equipped with chests. Mules cannot have babies, much like mules in real life.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Killing a baby mule yields no items nor experience.
Similar to horses and donkeys, mules roam idly, occasionally stopping to rear, swish their tails, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep , the eating animation does not actually cause any grass to be consumed. Mules turn to look at any player that comes near. Any mule, even a wild one, may be attached to a lead . However, if the player attempts to saddle an untamed mule, it rears and flails its front hooves.
Mules can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Mules also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a mule, they receive the same fall damage as the mule.
Mules, like most mobs, can ride in a minecart . Similarly to horses and donkeys, adult mules cannot ride a boat, but babies can. Also like horses and donkeys, mules have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Adult mules can be tamed : with an empty hand, mount the mule repeatedly; when it no longer bucks the player and shows hearts, it is tamed. It is necessary to tame a mule in order to give it equipment or ride it for any length of time.
Taming depends on the mule's "temper". Mules begin with a temper of 0 out of 100. When a player is riding the mule, a random number between 0 and 99 is chosen. The mule becomes tame if this number is less than the temper, otherwise, the temper is increased by 5 and the player is bucked off. Temper can also be increased by feeding the mule.
While riding an untamed mule, a galloping sound is audible, more or less rapid to give a general idea of the mule's speed.
Like all tamed animals, a death message is displayed to their owner if they are killed.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Like their real-life counterparts, mules in Minecraft cannot produce offspring. The only way to produce a mule (other than using a spawn egg) is to cross-breed a horse with a donkey.
Feeding a mule food can alter its behavior, cause it to grow (if it is not yet an adult; baby mules normally take 20 minutes to fully mature if not fed), and/or restore its health. The table below lists the effects of the various foods mules eat.
To feed a mule, hold a valid food item and press use on the mule. If the food is invalid, the player simply mounts the mule. Mules can be fed only when feeding would have an effect, similar to other animals.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult untamed mule to form a jockey .
Mules have three "equine stats" that vary from mule to mule: health, (maximum) movement speed, and jump strength. These stats are created once the mule is born or spawned, and are not affected by food.
When spawned in any way except breeding – for instance, using commands or using spawn eggs – mules are assigned their stats within certain ranges, specific according to their horse type.
A mule's health ranges from 15–30, but tends toward the average of 22–23. Displayed hearts are health, divided by two, rounded down. A mule with a non-even number of health points (15, 17, 19, etc.) does not show the last half-heart. So if a mule has 15 health ( ), its health bar will only display 14 health ( ). And if the mule took 3 HP damage, it would have 12 health left , but it would seem like it only took 2 HP , since the bar only shows 2 points of damage.
Spawned mules' speed is always 0.175; the player's normal walking speed is 0.1. The speed listed does not include any status effect that affects the speed of a horse or a player. Bred mules have speed between 0.1125 and 0.3375 based on their parent's speeds, like all other horse breeding. See Horse#Movement speed .
See transportation to compare the speeds of various transportation methods.
Spawned mules' jump strength is usually 0.5, which is enough to clear 1 9 ⁄ 16 blocks. Jump strengths between 0.4 and 1.0 can be found in bred mules, depending on the statistics of the parents (as explained later).
When breeding a horse and a donkey, the baby's stats are determined by a variation of the average of both parents' stats, randomly determined as horses' stats are.
Tamed and saddled mules can be used as a means of transportation in the game. Mules float on water when being controlled by a player.
Mules can be equipped with chests and used as pack animals. They can be pulled along and tied up using a lead .
Tamed mules have the following slots available:
A saddle can be equipped on a mule by holding it and then using on the mule, or by accessing its inventory. A mule's inventory can be accessed by mounting the mule and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using or pressing the "open inventory" button ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on the mule. The saddle can be removed by either removing it from the mule's inventory or by using shears on the mule.
A mule starts out with just a saddle slot, but if it is given a chest, it acquires 15 more inventory slots that can hold any items. Chests can be given to a mule by using it with the chest in hand, and the chest cannot be removed except by killing the mule. Upon death, the mule drops the attached chest and its contents.
Baby mules cannot be equipped with anything.
Once a mule is tamed and saddled, the player can control it with standard directional controls, jump , and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control.
A ridden saddled mule automatically runs up any one block high slope. The mule and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The mule itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. Mules cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap.
The maximum speed of mules, when created by breeding a horse and a donkey, varies between 4.74 blocks/second and 14.57 blocks/second (compared to the player's walking speed, which is about 4.3 blocks/second). About 68% of mules are able to go faster than a minecart . Any mule spawned with its spawn egg always has a speed of 7.38 blocks/second, which is slower than a minecart at full speed. Mules are slow-moving backward, and about as fast as the player when moving sideways.
Ridden saddled mules have the ability of "jumping charging". When the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by jumping charging bar. A ridden saddled mule can be made to jump and holding the control charges for a higher leap. Mules are not affected by jump boost beacons or potions.
Mules share the same sounds as donkeys.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Mules have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Mule" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A llama is a tameable neutral mob that can be equipped with a chest to transport items , and can also wear carpets . If attacked, it will retaliate using its spit .
A llama spawns above light level 7 on grass blocks in savanna plateau , savanna ‌ [ BE only ] [1] or windswept savanna ‌ [ BE only ] biomes in herds of 4 llamas, and in windswept hills , windswept forest , and windswept gravelly hills biomes in herds of 4 to 6 llamas, coming in four coat colors: brown, cream, white or gray.
10% of llamas spawn as baby llamas.
1–8 XP upon successful breeding.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Like other baby animals, killing a baby llama yields no item or experience .
Llamas are neutral mobs that retaliate when attacked by a player or another mob . Occasionally, their spit can miss its intended target and accidentally hit another llama, causing them to fight each other.
Llamas are hostile toward wolves and spit without provocation, but they don't attack tamed wolves unless provoked. Wolves are fearful of llamas of strength 4 or 5 and always run away, and won't attack unless provoked by their spit. [2] Wolves flee from weaker llamas less often.
Llamas are completely passive in Peaceful difficulty.
Llamas float when in water deeper than two blocks.
Llamas can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Llamas also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a llama, they receive the same fall damage as the llama.
Llamas have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Unlike other neutral mobs, llamas don't count towards the AngryAt tag. [3] [4] [5]
Llamas attack other mobs by spitting at them, dealing 1 HP damage . Llama spit is not flammable. In Bedrock Edition , like other projectiles , it can be thrown back at the llama.
Llamas can be tamed by repetitively riding them until hearts are displayed, done by pressing use on the llama while holding nothing.
Taming success depends on the llama's Temper value. Temper is a positive trait, with higher values increasing the chance of successful taming. Llamas begin with a Temper value of 0 and a maximum of 30. When a player rides an untamed llama, a random number from 0 to 29 is chosen. The llama gets tamed successfully if this number is less than the Temper value, otherwise, the Temper is increased by 5 and the player is bucked off. Temper can also be increased by feeding the llama.
Tamed llamas do not spit at mobs that attack its owner, although it spits at any mob that attacks the llama. Tamed llamas can still retaliate at players should the player hit them.
Feeding a llama food can alter its behavior, increasing its temper value if untamed, restoring lost health or making a baby grow faster (babies ordinarily take around 20 minutes to mature to adults). The table below lists the effects of the 2 food items llamas accept.
A llama can be fed by holding a valid food item and pressing use while facing the llama. Llamas can be fed only when feeding would have an effect, similar to other animals. If the food is invalid, the player mounts the llama instead.
Adult tamed llamas can be bred by being fed a hay bale . The baby llama takes on the coat color of one parent at random. Its strength is chosen as a random integer between 1 and the strength of the stronger parent, inclusive. 3% of the time the resulting strength is increased by 1, but it is capped at 5.
Stronger parent's strength
Select a row based on the stronger parent. The column shows the probability of the resulting offspring having a given strength.
A llama's base health (15 HP × 7.5 to 30 HP × 15 ) is calculated based on that of its parents, in the same way as a horse 's.
Color variant of llama is randomly selected between parents.
When breeding a trader llama with a normal llama in Java Edition, the offspring will always be a normal llama. In Bedrock Edition, the offspring can be either normal or trader llama.
Llamas form a caravan when one of them is leashed by a player .
Leashing a llama causes up to nine nearby llamas that are not already in a caravan to follow it, forming a caravan of up to ten llamas. When multiple llamas are leashed, each leashed llama can lead its own caravan of up to ten llamas. A caravan cannot contain more than one leashed llama, and there is no limit to the number of caravans a player can lead.
A tamed llama can be equipped with a chest by pressing the use control on it while holding a chest. The chest gives the llama 3 to 15 slots of inventory space, depending on its strength (see table below). Once equipped, its contents can be accessed by pressing the use control on the llama while sneaking , or by opening the inventory while riding the llama. The chest itself cannot be retrieved without killing the llama.
A tamed llama can be equipped with a wool carpet in its carpet slot. Each carpet color shows as a different patterned rug when on the llama's back. This can be useful for color-coding the llamas as storage containers, like dyed shulker boxes .
When given carpets, all types of llamas look the same, except for their fur colors. In Java Edition , a llama's carpet decoration, including the default blue rug of a trader llama, remains visible when the llama is under the effect of Invisibility ; [6] in Bedrock Edition , it becomes invisible.
For the purposes of the / item command , a llama carries its carpet in the armor.body slot.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Llamas have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Llama" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A camel is a large passive mob found in deserts and desert villages . They can be saddled and ridden by up to two players at once. When standing, it is tall enough that its riders cannot be reached by most melee-attacking mobs on the ground.
Camels spawn uncommonly in deserts in any light level‌ [ Java Edition only ] or a light level of 7 and below‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] .
One camel spawns in the center of each desert village during world generation . This camel is persistent and does not despawn.
1–3 XP experience orbs drop when camels are killed by a player or tamed wolf ‌ [ BE only ] . A saddle is dropped if the camel was already equipped with one. Killing a baby camel yields neither items nor experience.
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP is dropped.
A camel wanders aimlessly, avoiding hazards and obstacles, and occasionally sits for two to seven seconds before standing up again. In Bedrock Edition , camels get up immediately once the player rides them with a saddle while sitting; in Java Edition , they get up once the player moves forwards . Camels immediately flee after being harmed, even when sitting. A sitting camel cannot be pushed by players or mobs. [1] Sitting camels do not stand up if there are solid blocks above them, as doing so would inflict suffocation damage.
Every few seconds, regardless of its movement state, a camel slowly raises its head a small amount, wiggles its ears twice, then slowly lowers its head back down. While doing this, it also wags its tail slightly. This has no effect on gameplay and is purely visual.
Camels can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can safely fall 3 blocks. Camels also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a camel, they receive the same fall damage as the camel.
Camels are healed by 2 HP health points each time they are fed a cactus. Camels also heal slowly on their own over time.
Even though camels are bred with cacti, touching a cactus block still harms them like any other mob. As with other mobs, camels do not avoid cacti when they pathfind.
Camels have the unique ability to step up 1.5 blocks, allowing them to surmount fences and walls with ease. This is in contrast to horses , donkeys and mules , which can't automatically step up more than one block without jumping.
Camels have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Camels are naturally tame, and can always be ridden by players. Up to two players can ride one camel. While riding, the player in the back seat cannot hurt the player driving or the camel itself.
Camels have one slot in their inventory for equipping a saddle . A saddle can be placed on a camel by holding it and then using it on the camel, or by accessing its inventory. A camel's inventory can be accessed by mounting the camel and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using or pressing the "open inventory" button‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on the camel.
Once a camel is saddled, the player can control it with standard directional controls, jump , and the mouse. A second player can then ride as a passenger. The player dismounts using the dismount control. If the controlling passenger dismounts, the second passenger then takes control of the camel.
Camels are less maneuverable than other mounts, with their turning and strafing speed being slower. They gradually gain speed while moving in a straight line, up to a walking speed of 3.885 blocks/s, and can also manually sprint at a speed of 8.203 blocks/s by double tapping forward or by holding the sprint control while moving forward.
Saddled camels also have the ability of "dashing". When the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by a dash charging bar, similar to the jump charging bar for horses. Dashing is done using the jump control, and holding the control charges for a longer dashing. Camels can dash every 2.75 seconds. When dashing, the camel launches up to 12 blocks forward and one block upward. For a short time after dashing, the camel cannot sprint.
Camels are tall enough that most melee hostile mobs such as zombies , vindicators , hoglins , silverfish , endermites and golden sword -wielding piglins cannot reach mounted players to attack them. Spiders , wolves , slimes and magma cubes can still attack successfully because they jump or climb while attacking. Most mobs never deliberately attack camels under any circumstance, even to reach players riding one; the only exceptions being mobs that attack most or all other mobs, these being zoglins , wardens , withers , and vindicators named "Johnny".
Baby camels cannot be equipped or ridden.
Camels follow players holding cactus but stop following when separated from the player by at least 10 blocks‌ [ Java Edition only ] / 16 blocks‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . Sitting camels immediately start to stand up and follow once they notice the player holding cactus. Additionally, baby camels follow adults.
A player can breed camels by using cactus . After breeding, a baby camel spawns and 1–7 experience is generated. The parents cannot be bred again for 5 minutes.
Baby camels take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using cactus. Each use takes 10 seconds off the remaining time to grow up.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Camels have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Camel" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An armadillo is a passive mob found in badlands and savannas . It rolls up in response to being hurt or being near undead mobs or players that are sprinting or mounted. While in this state, it takes less damage. It also repels spiders and cave spiders . It is the only source of armadillo scutes , which the armadillo sheds over time, as well as when it is brushed .
Armadillos spawn in groups of two to three ‌ [ Java Edition only ] or four ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] in savannas , savanna plateaus , and windswept savannas and in groups of one to two in badlands , eroded badlands , and wooded badlands . They spawn at a light level of 9 or more In Java Edition and a light level of 7 or more In Bedrock Edition .
In Bedrock Edition , armadillos have a 5% chance to spawn as a baby.
Armadillos drop 1 armadillo scute every 5–10 minutes, similar to the rate at which chickens lay eggs .
Upon successful breeding (see below), 1–7 XP experience orbs are dropped.
Killing a baby armadillo yields no items nor experience .
If a player or dispenser uses a brush on an armadillo, it drops:
Brushing an armadillo uses 16 durability points, meaning an unenchanted brush has enough durability to obtain 4‌ [ JE only ] / 5‌ [ BE only ] armadillo scutes.
Spiders and cave spiders flee from armadillos when within 6 blocks of them. This only takes effect when the armadillo is not rolled up in its shell.
An armadillo can hide in its shell when it is hurt, confronted by undead , or confronted by players who are sprinting or riding anything. When an armadillo is rolled up it does not walk, cannot eat, and is not tempted by food. While rolled up, it takes a reduced amount of damage given by (original damage-1)/2 , damage belonging to the type self_destruct is not affected by this in Bedrock Edition . The armadillo occasionally peeks out from its shell to see if a threat is still near. It unrolls if it detects no threats for 3 seconds (60 ticks). It also unrolls immediately if it comes into contact with water or is attached to a lead . An armadillo does not roll up while fleeing, in water, on fire (they still roll up on campfires), in the air, or being led.
The distance an armadillo checks for threats is the size of its hitbox inflated by 7 blocks horizontally and 2 blocks vertically.
Armadillos follow players holding spider eyes within 10‌ [ JE only ] / 16‌ [ BE only ] blocks. Additionally, baby armadillos follow adults.
A player can breed armadillos by using spider eyes on two of them. After breeding, a baby armadillo spawns and 1–7 experience is generated. The parents cannot be bred again for 5 minutes.
Baby armadillos take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using spider eyes. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up.
An armadillo loses its willingness to breed if it rolls up after it is fed, but before it reaches its mate. It must be fed another spider eye to become willing to breed again.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Armadillos have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Armadillo" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An allay is a small flying passive mob that follows the player who has given it an item , or any note block instrument it has heard in the last 30 seconds. It searches for and collects dropped instances of its held item and drops them near the player or note block it is currently following.
Allays spawn only during world generation , but they can also be duplicated; see § Allay duplication below.
Allays have a 50% chance of spawning in dark oak cages near pillager outposts in groups of 1-3. Allays also have a 50% chance to spawn inside jail cells within woodland mansions in groups of 1-3.
Upon death, allays drop the item they are holding. Besides this, allays drop no other items or experience.
The allay's luminous texture allows it to be seen clearly in the dark, although it doesn't illuminate its surroundings. With Vibrant Visuals , allays are emissive and have a blue glow in the dark.
The allay is small, peaceful, and flies aimlessly until a player gives it an item with their use key. The allay starts following the player and seeks out dropped versions of the same item to deliver them to the player. The allay returns to wandering around if any player takes its item back by using an empty hand on it.
The allay locks onto the player who last gave it an item. This allay follows the player from within a 64-block radius sphere and seeks items within a 32-block radius sphere from the player. After delivering items, the allay has a delay of three seconds until it can seek items again. An allay has a single inventory slot to hold a stack of items (usually 64 items) in addition to the item it got from the player. While the allay does not discern enchantments , special item names , or items in shulker boxes when it seeks, it still carries such items in separate trips.
Allays don't pick up any items if the game rule / gamerule mobGriefing is false , but the player can still give the allay items with the use key.
If the allay hears a note block play within 16 blocks of its location while delivering items, it instead delivers its items to the note block. Then it spends 30 seconds around that particular note block, seeking items around it and returning them to it instead of its player. The allay returns to targeting its player after 30 seconds. A vibration particle emanates from the note block and reaches the allay to indicate that the allay has locked onto the note block. While an allay is focused on a note block, it responds only to sound from that note block, which resets the time until the allay loses interest. This in principle allows allays to focus on a single note block while other note blocks are playing in the vicinity, thus allowing many allays to work in parallel with different note blocks. Because the allay and the note block interact via a vibration particle, placing wool between the note block and the allay can prevent this sound interaction .
The allay can pick up items within a radius of about 1.3 blocks from itself and drop items up to 3 blocks away from its player or note block.
An allay performs a dance animation when there is a nearby jukebox playing. If the jukebox stops playing or if the allay gets too far away from the jukebox, it stops dancing.
The allay cannot enter water, although it attempts to gather underwater items.
Allays cannot be harmed by their interacting owners. If they are harmed by another source, they fly away for a few seconds. When killed, allays drop the items they were holding. If an allay dies while holding a totem of undying , it instead returns to full health and the totem is destroyed, as with any mob holding a totem of undying. Allays naturally regenerate 2 HP per second if damaged.
In Java Edition , using a named name tag performs the item's normal function, and it's impossible to give it to the allay. However, tethering allay to a fence using a lead will allow the player to give it to it. In Bedrock Edition , using a lead or a named name tag gives it to the allay, and the player can trigger the item's normal function by sneaking .
Despite being flying mobs, allays can destroy turtle eggs when on top of them. [1]
If an allay is given an amethyst shard while it is dancing due to a nearby jukebox playing any music disc , it splits into two allays (itself and a new allay) and the amethyst shard is consumed. After duplication, both allays have a five-minute cooldown before being able to duplicate again. Allays do not have a baby form.
When the duplication occurs, the second allay is freshly spawned in the same location as the allay being given the amethyst shard; it doesn't retain the original allay's attributes such as its custom name or attributes set via the use of commands .
When a player teleports through a nether portal , the player's allay teleports to them, even if it does not enter the portal.
When a player teleports through an end portal , the allay teleports to the End only if a player gives the allay an item before teleporting and must be nearby the player as they teleport.
Allays holding an item follow the player through a portal if they are 21 blocks horizontally from the player or if they are within 22 blocks vertically of the player's legs. Allays do not travel through portals regardless of how close they are if they are tethered to a fence with a lead .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Allays have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Allay" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An axolotl is a passive aquatic mob found in lush caves that hunts most other aquatic mobs, and can assist players with aquatic combat and grant them Regeneration . They can also be carried around in a bucket .
Axolotls spawn underwater in the lush caves biome and when there is a clay block less than five blocks below the spawning space.
Axolotls can be one of five colors: pink (leucistic), brown (wild), gold, cyan and blue.
When breeding axolotls, there is a 1 ⁄ 1200 (0.083%) chance of the offspring having the blue mutation, leaving 1199 ⁄ 1200 (99.917%) chance of matching one of the parents (including blue parents).
Blue axolotls cannot naturally spawn and can only be obtained through breeding.
Axolotls drop nothing when killed besides 1 experience when killed by a player or a tamed wolf .
Axolotls are passive toward players, can be attached to leads , and follow players holding a bucket of tropical fish on either the main hand or the off-hand. When a player kills a mob that is in combat with one or more axolotls, the axolotls remove Mining Fatigue from the player, and give the player Regeneration I for 100 game ticks (5 seconds) per axolotl in the fight, up to a duration of 2400 game ticks (2 minutes) in Java Edition , and uncapped in Bedrock Edition .
Axolotls attack the following mobs, dealing 2 HP points of damage per attack:
After killing a non-hostile mob, there is a two minute cooldown before another non-hostile mob can be hunted. Axolotls prioritize attacking hostile mobs over non-hostile mobs.
If an axolotl takes damage underwater, it may play dead, dropping to the ground for 200 game ticks (10 seconds) while gaining Regeneration I. Hostile aquatic mobs ignore healing axolotls. There is a 1 ⁄ 3 chance for an axolotl to play dead to recover 4 HP . In addition, if either a random integer from 0–2 (inclusive) is less than the amount of incoming damage , or the axolotl's health before the damage is dealt is less than 50% of its maximum health, it plays dead.
Axolotls can leave the water and wander about on land. When an axolotl leaves the water, it wanders as far as 8 or 9 blocks beyond the water's edge before returning to the water, as long as there is water at least 2 blocks deep within 16 blocks of the axolotl. If 2-block-deep water is outside this range, the axolotl can wander off randomly on land in search of more deep water, and die after 6000 game ticks (5 minutes) exposure out of water. Axolotls are not attracted to shallow (1 block deep) water. They require water at least 2 blocks deep within 16 blocks to pathfind to the water. [1]
Being hit with a splash water bottle or lingering water bottle will restore 1800 game ticks (90 seconds) of air to the axolotl.
Axolotls can also die out of water as passengers in a boat. Unlike fish and squid , axolotls do not die on land in rain or in a thunderstorm .
Unlike most mobs, axolotls cannot be moved by flowing water. However, they are still affected by bubble columns .
As aquatic mobs, they take extra damage from the Impaling enchantment in Java Edition . Unlike other aquatic mobs, they cause nearby pufferfish to inflate.
Axolotls picked up with a water bucket and re-spawned do not despawn.
Naming a bucket of axolotl in an anvil also sets the name of the axolotl inside‌ [ JE only ] . The name remains with the axolotl if it is picked up by another bucket.
Axolotls follow players holding buckets of tropical fish within 10‌ [ JE only ] / 16‌ [ BE only ] blocks. Additionally, baby axolotls follow adults.
A player can breed axolotls by using buckets of tropical fish. After breeding, a baby axolotl spawns and 1–7 experience is generated. The parents cannot be bred again for 5 minutes in Java Edition or 1 minute in Bedrock Edition . The baby axolotl has a 1 ⁄ 1200 chance to be the rare blue variant; otherwise, it inherits the color of one parent at random.
Baby axolotls take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using buckets of tropical fish. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up.
An axolotl loses its willingness to breed if it is picked up in a bucket and released after it is fed but before it reaches its mate. It must be fed another bucket of tropical fish to become willing to breed again.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Axolotls have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Axolotl" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A bee is a flying arthropodan neutral mob that lives in a bee nest or beehive , and fills it with harvestable honey using nectar it gathers from flowers . Attacking a bee, or interfering with its home without proper precautions, causes it and all nearby bees to attack using their stingers. If a bee attacks something, it will lose its stinger and eventually die.
Bees are the only arthropod mob that can spawn in any difficulty including Peaceful.
Naturally generated bee nests generate with 2-3 bees in them.
Naturally-generated birch or oak trees have equal chances to generate with a bee nest , depending on the biome :
Birch , cherry , and oak trees grown from saplings that are within 2 blocks of any 1- or 2-block tall flowers , flowering azalea , cherry leaves , flowering azalea leaves , mangrove propagule , spore blossom , pink petals , or chorus flower have a 5% chance of having a bee nest containing 2–3 bees.
Mangroves grown from mangrove propagules have a 1% chance of having a bee nest containing 2-3 bees. Unlike birch, cherry and oak trees, no flowers are required for a bee nest to generate. [1]
Upon death, adult bees drop 1–3 XP experience when killed by a player or a tamed wolf . Like other baby animals, killing a baby bee yields no experience.
When two bees breed and produce offspring, 1–7 XP is dropped.
Bees do not fly (like ghasts or the ender dragon ), but instead hover a few blocks above the ground similar to bats and parrots .
Bees are considered arthropods and take increased damage from the Bane of Arthropods enchantment. [2] They also take 1 HP damage every half second if they stay in water for more than 20 game ticks (1 second). [3] Bees do not take damage from sweet berry bushes .
Bees can be attached to a lead , even when angered. They can still attack while attached. A lead that attaches any other entity to a bee breaks when the bee enters its hive.
Bees usually venture up to 22 blocks from their beehive to collect nectar from a viable plant or to attack someone. Bees can venture farther away if necessary.
A bee can fly horizontally and vertically upward through scaffolding but does not fly downward. A bee does not fly through an open trapdoor or regular door on its own (a bee can be led through a door with a flower) but babies can fly through the gap above a fence gate in a 1×2 doorway.
Despite being flying mobs, bees can destroy turtle eggs when on top of them. [4]
Bees leave their nest during the day. They fly around their nests and are attracted to flowers (except closed eyeblossoms ), flowering azaleas , flowering azalea leaves , mangrove propagules , pink petals , cherry leaves , spore blossoms , chorus flowers , cactus flowers , and wildflowers , which are the valid plants for the bee to gather nectar from. Bees can gather nectar from wither roses but receive the wither effect . As a result, bees can die. [5] Bees can also gather nectar from open eyeblossoms , but get poisoned as result; they completely ignore golden dandelions and closed eyeblossoms , and are unable to gather nectar from them. Bees also completely ignore flowers in flower pots . [6] [7]
After circling a flower for more than 400 game ticks (20 seconds), a bee collects nectar. However, if the bee gets damaged, it ceases its efforts to collect nectar. A bee carrying nectar has nectar spots on its abdomen and drops nectar particles to fertilize plants below the bee.
Bees that have nectar may pollinate pitcher crops ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , wheat crops , potato crops , carrot crops , beetroot crops , melon stems , sweet berry bushes , pumpkin stems , cave vines , and torchflower crops that they fly over. When one of these plants gets pollinated, it advances to another growth stage, similar to using bone meal . To pollinate a plant, a bee must be 1 to 2 blocks directly above the plant and must have a valid home hive. A bee can fertilize plants 10 times each time they have nectar. There is an approximately 5% chance each tick to attempt fertilization.
Afterward, the bee flies back into its hive/nest to make honey. It takes about 2 minutes for the bee to do this.
Bees live together in colonies and take any bee nest or beehive that has enough space as its home. One bee nest/beehive can house up to 3 bees. Homeless bees search for empty beehives by wandering around generally in a northwest direction. Bees can enter a beehive from any side, but exit only from the front. One-way bee-gates can be made by using this mechanic.
Bees return to their nest when it rains and during the night . This behavior extends to biomes that don't rain, such as the desert . They stay in their nest or hive for at least 2400 game ticks (2 minutes) before coming back out. Bees in a nest/hive retain their data ( health , name, etc.).
Breaking a nest or hive without Silk Touch releases all bees contained inside. If the nest or hive is harvested using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch, the bees are contained in the dropped item and can exit the nest/hive when it is placed again.
When a bee that has nectar enters and then leaves its nest or hive, the honey level of the nest/hive is increased by one; there is a 1% chance it is increased by two. When the honey level of that hive reaches 5, the player can harvest honeycombs or honey bottles . The honey level resets back to 0 when a honeycomb or honey bottle is harvested.
Because there is neither daylight cycle nor weather in the Nether and the End , bees work without resting in these dimensions. This behavior is distinct from that of the villagers , which follow their daily routine according to the time in the Overworld , regardless of which dimension they are in.
All bees nearby are angered when an individual bee is attacked (unless the bee attacked is killed in one hit), honey or honeycombs are collected (unless a campfire is placed under the nest), or a bee nest/beehive is destroyed. Even destroying newly-placed uninhabited beehives anger nearby bees. Hitting or walking on a beehive does not anger bees; only destroying it angers them. When destroyed, a beehive releases any bees that it contained. If the beehive is destroyed with a Silk Touch tool, bees kept within the hive remain neutral, while those outside the hive also remain neutral.
Bees attack and swarm the player as a group when angered, and the eyes of angered bees turn red. Collecting a honeycomb or a honey bottle from a nest or hive causes the bees that are currently in that nest or hive to leave and swarm the player unless a campfire is placed within five blocks below the hive. Bees attack only once, similar to llamas , and non-aggressive pandas .
Bees do not deal any damage in Peaceful difficulty and are completely passive. They fly outside the beehive and search for flowers as usual.
If the player deflects a bee's attack with a shield , the bee continues attacking until it succeeds in hitting the player.
When a bee's attack on a player succeeds, the player is poisoned . A bee loses its stinger after a successful attack, cannot attack further and does not retreat to its nest (even at night), and dies approximately one minute later. This can be delayed with potion effects ( Regeneration / Resistance / Absorption ) that have a 255 potency.
It is possible to (quickly) breed at least one angered bee with another, even if it or they had stung and lost the stinger. However, they remain angered and still die later due to being stingerless.
Bees also swarm and attack other mobs when damaged , for example, if a skeleton accidentally shoots a bee.
Bees become neutral if they fail to land a hit on their target until anger counter runs out. Anger duration is randomly selected between 20 and 39 seconds, inclusive.
In Java Edition , a bee's stinger is visible on the player as a small black dot after the bee successfully attacked.
Bees follow players holding any 1- or 2-block tall flowers (except closed eyeblossoms and golden dandelions ), mangrove propagules , flowering azaleas , flowering azalea leaves , cherry leaves , pink petals , wildflowers , spore blossoms , cactus flowers or chorus flowers . If the player is standing still and being followed by bees, the bees go toward the player, face the player, and rest on the ground. They do this until the player moves.
If bees are given any of the blocks listed above (except open eyeblossom and wither rose ), they enter love mode and pair up to create baby bees, granting the player 1-7 experience . The parent bees have a cooldown of 5 minutes (6000 game ticks ) before they can be bred again. Babies take 20 minutes (1 in-game day) to grow up. The growth of baby bees can be accelerated by feeding them flower types (except those that cannot cause love mode); each use reduces the remaining time by 10%. However, bees' growth timer and breeding cooldowns are frozen while working in a hive; thus, when rapidly growing a population, it may be desirable to temporarily remove the hives.
Wither roses and open eyeblossoms cannot be used for breeding bees or growing baby bees. Feeding a bee a wither rose inflicts it with the Wither effect for 2 seconds (40 game ticks ), while feeding a bee an open eyeblossom inflicts it with Poison for 1.25 seconds (25 game ticks ). Closed eyeblossoms and golden dandelions cannot be used to lead, breed or grow bees; in the latter case, feeding them to baby bees instead toggles age-locking as with other baby mobs.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Bees have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Bee" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A fox is a trustable , neutral mob found in taigas and similar biomes . It hunts small animals , can carry items in its mouth and will eat anything that is edible . A fox will trust and defend a player that spawned it through breeding , but will run away from non- sneaking players in any other circumstance.
Foxes spawn in groups of two to four, and can spawn on grass blocks , coarse dirt , podzol , snow blocks , and snow . In Bedrock Edition , they can spawn on any block. 5% of them spawn as babies.
Foxes have two color variants, red and snow, which depend on the biome they spawn in. Red foxes spawn in taigas , old growth pine taigas , old growth spruce taigas , and dappled forests ​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] , while snow foxes spawn in groves and snowy taigas .
When bred , the color of the baby fox that is spawned depends on the color of its parents, regardless of the biome it is born in.
Foxes have a 20% chance to spawn (via spawn egg or naturally) with one of the following items in their mouth:
An adult fox drops 1–3 XP experience orbs when killed by a player or tamed wolf . Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP are dropped. Killing a baby fox yields no experience.
Foxes always drop any item they pick up and are still holding (they cannot drop food that they have eaten, for example) and drop items they spawn with naturally with a 100% chance, so:
If a fox is killed while holding a totem of undying , then the fox consumes the totem and revives itself instead of dropping the totem.
Foxes occasionally make loud screeches during nighttime, unless a trusted player is near them. Baby foxes follow adult foxes.
During the night , foxes sometimes go to nearby villages .
Foxes flee from nearby wolves , polar bears or players unless the player is trusted or approaches them while sneaking . They take no damage or speed reduction while moving through sweet berry bushes .
Foxes attack chickens , rabbits , cod , salmon and tropical fish , and baby turtles while they are on land. Foxes don't attack players , wolves , polar bears , zoglins , "Johnny" vindicators , wardens or goats even if they are being attacked by them.
Foxes attack either by running against or by pouncing. Like rabbits and goats , foxes can pounce more than one block high without status effects or player input. Similar to goats, they do not attack the player when hit. A fox prepares to pounce by tilting and lowering its head and lowering its body to become shorter. Then it leaps up to four blocks [verify] into the air , jumping over fences and walls if needed. If the target mob moves from its location during this sequence, the pounce misses the target. In Bedrock Edition , foxes also shake side to side before pouncing and their legs wave while in midair.
Foxes can safely fall 5 blocks before they start to accumulate fall damage, unlike most mobs, which can only fall 3 blocks safely.
While foxes are capable of jumping over fences and walls, they cannot see through them. [1] A fox does not try to attack a mob on the same y-level if there is a fence between them.
Red foxes prefer to attack chickens, rabbits and baby turtles, all of which are on land, over cod, salmon, and tropical fish; conversely, snow foxes prefer to attack cod, salmon and tropical fish over land-dwelling creatures.
A fox that pounces into a snow layer becomes momentarily stuck, remaining face-down, emitting particles while shaking, and returning to normal shortly after.
Foxes swim to attack fish in water for food. Baby foxes following adults into the water cannot swim and may eventually drown.
Foxes attempt to run toward the closest attackable mob , even if attached to a lead , but do not attempt to break the lead. A fox wakes up from sleeping to attack a mob.
Wild wolves are aggressive toward foxes when within 18‌ [ JE only ] /16‌ [ BE only ] blocks . In Java Edition , adult polar bears also sneak toward foxes to attack them; in Bedrock Edition adult polar bears attack foxes within 16 blocks.
Foxes are one of the few mobs in the game that can sleep, along with cats , villagers and bats .
During the day , if a thunderstorm is not occurring, foxes attempt to find a space with a sky light level of 14 or less and sleep. Block light has no effect on this. While it sleeps, it slowly moves its head up and down. A fox wakes if approached by a player or mob . Foxes do not flee if a player approaches while sneaking until the player gets on an adjacent block .
If the sky light at the fox's position becomes 15 or above, either due to a block above being destroyed or the fox being moved, the fox wakes up.
Foxes can drop and pick up items in their sleep.
Trusting foxes can fall asleep even if attached to a lead . They can also be moved with leads while sleeping.
Foxes do not sleep if they are within 12 blocks of an armor stand , or a camera in Minecraft Education .
A fox sits down sometimes if the fox cannot find a shaded area to sleep. The fox sits for a short time, then hops back up. Foxes sit down even when attached to a lead or in a boat . Foxes that have not been bred by the player always sit while in the Nether, even while attached to a lead .
If any item is on the ground near a fox, it travels to the item and picks it up, and the item appears in the fox's mouth. However, usually a fox chooses to attack a mob over picking up an item. This behavior is not limited to food and animal products; a fox can pick up any item that the player can pick up. However, they prefer to pick up food items, and if they have already picked up non-food items, they drop the non-food items to pick up food instead. A fox can also swap a food item it is holding for a different food item.
A fox eats any food item it picks up (besides cake) after 30 seconds and the fox is affected by any side effects from the food, such as poison or teleportation. For example, if a fox eats an enchanted golden apple , it obtains the Absorption , Resistance , Fire Resistance and Regeneration . If a fox eats any type of soup or stew, an empty bowl is dropped. If a fox eats a chorus fruit , it teleports accordingly.
If there is a stage 3 or 4 sweet berry bush within a 16 block radius of a fox, it sprints toward the bush and eats the sweet berries , dropping the item it was holding. However, if the fox stands on a solid block directly above the sweet berry bush and is already holding an item, the fox will harvest the sweet berries, making them drop, but will not eat them nor drop the item it was holding. Foxes are not damaged or slowed by sweet berry bushes.
Although visually holding items in its mouth, they are functionally being held in its main hand ; therefore, the fox is affected by any effects of a given held item. A sword increases its damage, and a totem of undying saves it from death, for instance. If a fox picks up a weapon or an item with enchantments , such as Looting and Fire Aspect, these items affect the fox's attack as if the fox is wielding the weapon in its main hand, although the item retains its durability when used by the fox. If a fox is holding a totem of undying , it receives the effects after taking fatal damage. In Bedrock Edition , if a fox wields a sword with the Fire Aspect enchantment while attacking a mob on a campfire or a soul campfire, it ignites the campfire and does critical damage to the entity.
Foxes do not pick up items when gamerule mobGriefing is set to false .
When sweet berries or glow berries are used on two foxes, the foxes breed , producing a baby fox. If a red fox is bred with a snow fox, the baby has a 50% chance of being either a red or snow fox.
Breeding two adults with sweet berries or glow berries produces a baby fox that trusts the player that bred it and does not flee from that player as it grows up; however, because baby foxes also follow nearby adult foxes, an adult running away from the player may cause the baby to do the same.
Naturally spawned baby foxes do not trust players.
Foxes attack specific mobs that hurt a player they trust. When attacking phantoms, foxes do not jump to attack.
In Bedrock Edition , foxes that trust a player attack any mob that harms their trusted player, including other players. In Java Edition , foxes defend the player from the following damage sources: [2]
Foxes do not retaliate against players who harm them, but they still attack players who damage players they trust.
Trusting foxes retreat from polar bears and wolves but not tamed wolves. A tamed wolf whose owner attacks a trusting fox also attacks the fox.
The player can summon a neutral fox in singleplayer with the command / summon fox ~ ~ ~ {Trusted:[I;<player UUID>]} , where <player UUID> is the UUID of the player as an int-array, with commas separating the 4 integers. Like other neutral mobs, foxes are passive in Peaceful difficulty. Unlike other neutral mobs, a neutral fox is not aggravated by firework damage. [4]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Foxes have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Fox" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A goat is a neutral mob found in certain mountainous biomes . It can jump especially high and is milkable . Goats occasionally ram other mobs and players , and cannot be provoked. Ramming into certain blocks causes a goat horn to drop from an adult goat if it has any.
Groups of two to three goats spawn above stone , gravel , packed ice or snow blocks on snowy slopes, jagged peaks, and frozen peaks at the surface. Goats spawn individually and more uncommonly after the world generation. 5% of all goats spawn as babies.
When a goat is spawned naturally, or through breeding normal goats, it has a 2% chance of being a screaming ‌ [ JE only ] goat or a screamer ‌ [ BE only ] goat . They look identical to all other goats, but they make different sounds and ram more often.
Screaming‌ [ JE only ] /screamer‌ [ BE only ] goats can also be obtained with the following commands:
In Java Edition : / summon minecraft:goat ~ ~ ~ {IsScreamingGoat:1b}
In Bedrock Edition : it requires two commands if spawned as a normal goat:
Adult goats have a 10% chance to be missing one of their horns upon spawning. If this chance succeeds, either the left or the right horn is removed (chosen randomly with an equal chance for each).
Adult goats drop 1–3 XP when killed by a player or tamed wolf . Killing a baby goat yields no items or experience .
1–7 XP is dropped upon successful breeding .
An adult goat that has at least one horn on its head will lose one of them and drop a goat horn if it charges into any of the following solid blocks : stone , coal ore , copper ore , iron ore , emerald ore , logs , or packed ice . In Java Edition , these blocks are listed under the #snaps_goat_horn tag, and can be modified using a data pack .
Baby goats never drop goat horns. However, in Java Edition , it's possible to remove a baby's horns using a command, like / summon minecraft:goat ~ ~ ~ {Age:-1,HasLeftHorn:0b,HasRightHorn:0b,AgeLocked:1} .
There are four horn variants for normal goats ("Ponder", "Sing", "Seek", and "Feel"), and four horn variants that only screaming goats drop ("Admire", "Call", "Yearn", and "Dream"). Goats do not regrow their horns; therefore, up to two horns can be dropped per goat, or one horn if the goat spawned with only one horn. The two horns of the same goat are always of the same variant.
When left to wander, goats tend to ascend hills and mountains rather than keep to lowlands. Their behavior is marked by jumping high and by opportunistically ramming non-moving mobs.
Goats take 10 HP less fall damage and avoid walking into powder snow. Goats do not get hurt by pointed dripstone if they fall on it from a minimum of six blocks, and don't die from pointed dripstone if they fall on it from a minimum of ten.
A goat usually jumps when trying to cross an obstacle like a small hole in the ground or powder snow . It lowers its head, then it leaps up to 10 blocks vertically and up to 5 blocks laterally. Once a goat jumps this way, it cannot do it again for 30 to 60 seconds. A goat also never voluntarily jumps more than 5 blocks down, although a goat can be pushed off a higher cliff by another mob or a piston .
Every 30 seconds to 5 minutes, a goat tries to ram a single unmoving target it can see within a range of 4–16 blocks. They can target players, armor stands ,‌ [ JE only ] cameras ,‌ [ BE & edu only ] and any mob except for ghasts and other goats. A charging goat locks on to its target's position, lowers its head, stomps, and speeds toward the target. If the charge connects, it deals 1 HP to 3 HP damage (depending on difficulty) and 9 blocks of knockback to its target, possibly resulting in a damaging or even fatal fall.
As a goat lowers its head, its target has the chance to move out of the way. If a goat misses, it stops itself within a couple blocks, unless it hits a solid block first. If a goat rams a solid block that occurs naturally in its environment , it can drop one of its horns .
Mobs do not retaliate to being rammed, except for piglins , piglin brutes , hoglins , zoglins , "Johnny" vindicators and wardens . [1]
If a goat rams against a zombified piglin , all nearby other zombified piglins will come to its aid to help it and will attack the goat who impacted the zombified piglin.
Goats don't target players in Creative mode or any players in Peaceful difficulty . However, they still attempt to ram players in Creative if they switched from Survival mode when the ram cooldown has ended and were already targeted before the switch. [ check the code ] [ citation needed ] Unlike most neutral mobs, goats do not attack the player if the player attacks it and do not call for backup if harmed.
Baby goats deal a knockback of 4.5 blocks. A screaming goat tries to ram a valid target every 5 to 15 seconds.
When the player holds wheat in their hand, the goat that was preparing to ram something stops preparing to ram and starts walking up to the player.
An adult goat can be milked by using a bucket on it, yielding a milk bucket . Screaming goats make a distinct sound when this happens.
Goats follow players that are within ten blocks who are holding wheat . If adult goats are fed wheat, they enter love mode and breed, granting one to seven experience orbs. The growth time of a baby goat can be accelerated by 10% each time it is fed wheat.
If a standard goat is bred with a screaming goat, there is approximately a 50% chance the resulting baby is a screaming goat. If both goats are screaming, there is a 100% chance in Java Edition and a 98% chance in Bedrock Edition that the baby is a screamer goat. With two normal parents, there is a 2% chance of a baby goat being a screaming goat.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Goats have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Goat" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
These baby states can only be obtained via command.
A panda is a rare neutral mob that resides in jungles . Certain aspects of a panda's behavior and appearance vary depending on its personality .
Pandas spawn rarely in groups of 1–2 in jungle biomes on grass blocks with at least a two-block space above them. They are slightly ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or way ‌ [ Java Edition only ] more common in bamboo jungles and have a 5% chance to spawn as a baby. They do not spawn on podzol . [1]
Pandas spawn with a randomized personality, with the normal personality being the most common and the brown variant being the rarest. The personality depends on genes . Each gene has the same distribution on spawn as the mutated gene . So the probability of each personality is:
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP experience orbs are dropped.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Like other baby animals , killing a baby panda yields no items or experience .
Baby pandas have 1 ⁄ 700 chance to drop 1 slimeball after they sneeze. This means that, on average, a weak baby panda produces a slimeball every 4 hours, 51 minutes and 40 seconds, and any other baby panda produces 1 every 58 hours and 20 minutes.
A panda tends to roll off cliffs while playing around. Pandas act similarly to other neutral mobs and attack when hurt but only once (similar to llamas and bees ) except on Peaceful difficulty , in which pandas are passive. Attacking pandas are far more vicious in Java Edition .
Pandas follow any player that is carrying bamboo and stop following if the player moves beyond approximately 16 blocks away. Pandas produce a whimper sound effect if a thunderstorm is happening in the area.
Adult pandas seek out bamboo and cake to eat.
Baby pandas have a 1 ⁄ 6000 chance (0.01 6 %) of sneezing every game tick . Weak baby pandas are more likely to sneeze with a 1 ⁄ 500 (0.2%) chance every tick. Sneezing makes all adult pandas within 10 blocks jump and rarely drops a slimeball . Baby pandas also occasionally roll over and jump around.
Pandas have one private inventory.
A lead cannot be used on a panda by normal means. [2] However, a panda can be leashed using a map editor or NBT editor.
Pandas can be ridden by baby zombie variants.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Unlike other neutral mobs, pandas don't count towards the AngryAt tag. [3] [4] [5]
Pandas have seven different personalities: normal, lazy, worried, playful, aggressive, weak, and brown.
The panda is the only animal to have extra breeding conditions. In Java Edition , pandas enter love mode when fed with bamboo, but breed only if there is at least one bamboo plant (not including shoots) within a 7×7×3 area; otherwise the pandas briefly shake their heads and do not breed until that requirement is met. If only one panda is close to a bamboo plant, the other panda shakes its head, but a baby is born.
In Bedrock Edition , there must be at least 8 bamboo plants within a five-block radius of each panda in order for them to enter love mode. If a panda is fed without a sufficient amount of bamboo plants nearby, it sits and eats the bamboo instead of entering love mode.
Once pandas successfully breed, they produce a baby panda that remains neutral toward that player .
Cake cannot be used to breed pandas.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult panda to form a jockey . Pandas can still sit, sneeze, and even lie down and roll, if ridden.
Additionally, if a worried panda is mounted, and the baby zombie variant doesn't have a target, the worried panda keeps running as if trying get away from its passenger, since it avoids all mobs, including monsters.
Each panda has two hidden values called " genes " or "alleles", as found in genetics . Pandas have a main gene and a hidden gene, each assigned to a particular trait. Normal, aggressive, lazy, worried, and playful personalities are dominant traits, while weak and brown personalities are recessive traits. If the main gene is a dominant gene, then it presents as the personality regardless of the hidden gene. If the main gene is recessive and the hidden gene is not the same trait, then a normal personality results. As recessive traits, weak and brown personalities occur if both the main and hidden genes of a panda are weak or brown, respectively. The hidden gene is relevant only for determining the panda's personality if the main gene is recessive.
When two pandas breed, each one passes one of their genes to their children, who then randomly mix both obtained genes as their respective main and hidden genes. There is also a 1 ⁄ 32 chance for each gene of the baby to mutate into another gene. Normal, weak, and brown traits more commonly result from mutations than other traits do. These probabilities also apply to naturally spawned pandas for their main and hidden genes.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Panda have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Panda" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A parrot is a tamable passive mob that spawns in jungle biomes . Parrots imitate sounds of nearby monsters and can perch on the player 's shoulders.
Parrots naturally spawn in groups of 1–2 in jungles , bamboo jungles , and sparse jungles ‌ [ BE only ] above logs , leaves , grass blocks , or air .
Unlike most passive mobs, parrots cannot be bred .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
1–3 XP experience orbs are dropped when parrots are killed by a player or a tamed wolf .
Parrots fly around idly under normal circumstances, landing frequently to rest. [1] They take interest in any nearby mobs , including those that are hostile to them, and follow them around closely. When attacked, they rapidly fly upward several blocks to flee.
Parrots also flap their wings to swim , slow their falls, and prevent fall damage .
Parrots can be tamed by feeding them wheat seeds , melon seeds , pumpkin seeds , beetroot seeds , torchflower seeds , or pitcher pods . Each item fed has a 1 ⁄ 10 chance of successfully taming them. Once tamed, interacting with a parrot makes it sit down and stand up.
Unless told to sit, a tamed parrot follows the player and teleports if there is a distance of 12 blocks between it and the player.
A death message is displayed to a parrot's owner upon its death.
In Java Edition , attempting to feed a parrot a cookie deals 2 128 (3.4028 x 10 38 ) damage to it, emitting Poison particles as it dies. In Bedrock Edition , attempting to feed a parrot a cookie does not instantly kill it, but Fatal Poison is emitted instead. This is a reference to the fact that chocolate is toxic to parrots.
Unlike most animal mobs, parrots cannot breed and baby parrots do not exist.
A tamed parrot on the ground can be made to perch on its player 's shoulder by moving through the parrot. On its own, a tamed parrot can also fly to and perch on the player's shoulder, unless it has been told to sit. A player can have one parrot on each shoulder. Parrots always prefer a player's left shoulder first, if it is empty.
A parrot dismounts its player when the player:
Parrots on a shoulder always look in the same direction the player's head is looking.
A parrot riding on an entity cannot take any damage (except void and / kill ).‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
But it may get hurt as soon as it dismounts, as when dismounting a player submerged in lava .
A parrot sitting on the shoulder appears in the inventory interface.
In Bedrock Edition , a parrot sitting on a shoulder prevents the player from entering a nether portal . [3]
If a player uses an ender pearl while parrots are on their shoulder, the parrots teleport with the player.
Parrots imitate the idle sounds of nearby monsters and in Bedrock Edition , a few neutral animals as well; they have a detection range of 20 blocks. The sound produced by the parrots is the same sound as the mob being mimicked at a higher pitch, the same pitch as the mob's baby variant. Occasionally, a parrot may imitate sounds of mobs that are not in the area. [4]
In Bedrock Edition , they can also imitate neutral mobs such as endermen , polar bears , wolves and zombified piglins . In Java Edition , they can also imitate piglins , hoglins and piglin brutes .
In Java Edition , parrots attempt to imitate happy ghasts , but without using the corresponding sound event.
Parrots don't imitate the sounds of skeleton horses . [5]
Mobs that are imitated by parrots:
Parrots dance near a jukebox if a music disc is inside it. Parrots even have the ability to dance while on a player 's shoulder.‌ [ BE only ] This is a reference to the Party Parrot meme. [6] They stop dancing when the track ends. [7]
The dancing radius is 3 blocks from the jukebox. If they dance and then fly beyond this radius, they stop dancing. A parrot does not dance if the music disc was inserted prior to it spawning, dismounting, or being within the 3 blocks range. [8]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Note that these are the original mob sounds, and not the pitched up ones heard from parrots in-game. When making their ambient sound, parrots have a chance to trigger a random sound from this list if the difficulty is not Peaceful.
‌ [ JE only ]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Parrots have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
When a parrot is resting on the player's shoulder, it ceases to be a distinct entity and its entity data is stored in the player's ShoulderEntityLeft or ShoulderEntityRight NBT. See also Player.dat format .
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Parrot" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A frog is a passive mob found in swamps and mangrove swamps . It performs large jumps, swims, and uses its long tongue to eat small slimes and small magma cubes . Froglights are created when frogs eat magma cubes; different frog types create different froglight colors.
Frogs spawn in groups of two to five in swamp and mangrove swamp biomes.
Frogs have three variants: temperate, cold, and warm. The variant is determined by the biome the frog spawns in, both naturally and when growing from a tadpole .
Mangrove Swamp
None [ variants 1 ]
Frogs drop 1–3 XP when killed by a player or tamed wolf .
1–7 XP is dropped upon successful breeding .
On land, frogs slowly wander, jumping at random. They can jump up to 8 blocks high and take 5 HP less damage from falling than most other mobs. They prefer jumping on lily pads and big dripleaves , and usually jump to places that are higher up.
In water, frogs swim and move much faster. They generally swim upward and remain at the water's surface, but can swim downward if lured by a player. Frogs do not take drowning damage.
Occasionally, they may croak and inflate their vocal sac.
Frogs follow any player holding a slimeball within 6 blocks of them.
Feeding two frogs a slimeball causes them to enter love mode , causing one of the frogs to become pregnant, similar to turtles . The pregnant frog then searches for a water block with at least one adjacent water block (flowing or source) with air above to lay their eggs, known as frogspawn . After 3-10 minutes, the frogspawn hatches and 2-5 tadpoles are spawned, which grow into frogs after 20 minutes.
Unlike all other mobs with baby variants, the tadpole is treated by the game as a completely different mob from the frog.
Furthermore, the biome in which the tadpoles grow into frogs determines their variant type, regardless of their parental variant type, a unique characteristic specific to frogs.
Frogs attack by using their tongue to pull certain mobs into their mouth and eat them, whereupon the mob instantly despawns without a death animation.
Frogs attack small slimes , which drop slimeballs when killed.
Frogs also attack small magma cubes , producing a froglight block. When a magma cube gets targeted, the frog walks toward it at a faster pace before attacking. The color of froglight that drops depends on the variant of frog that eats the magma cube:
Frogs cannot be harmed by slimes or magma cubes, regardless of their size.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Frogs have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Frog" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sniffer is an ancient [1] passive mob that spawns only by hatching from sniffer eggs . It looks for and digs up torchflower and pitcher plant seeds in dirt , grass , and moss blocks .
Sniffers spawn by hatching from sniffer eggs , which can be found in suspicious sand from warm ocean ruins . Sniffers cannot spawn naturally. Breeding sniffers with torchflower seeds can also result in a sniffer egg being laid as an item .
When killed, adult sniffers drop 1–3 XP experience points if it was killed by a player or a tamed wolf . Snifflets, just like other baby animals, do not drop any experience points.
Upon successful breeding, 1–7 XP is dropped.
Sniffers wander aimlessly, avoiding hazards and obstacles. They occasionally smell their surroundings and track ancient seeds by pressing their snout to the ground. When they find a seed, they sploot [2] and use their snouts to dig into the ground until they get torchflower seeds or a pitcher pod , with an equal chance of digging up either one.
A sniffer can only dig if it is on the ground. A sniffer cannot dig when it is leashed, in water , tempted with a torchflower seed, panicking, or in a boat or minecart . The block underneath its head must be diggable and reachable by the sniffer. The head location is defined as 2.25 blocks in front of the center of the body. The sniffer also stores its prior 20 digging locations to prevent subsequent digging at those locations. After sniffing out seeds, an eight-minute cooldown is activated before it can search again.
The following blocks are diggable by the sniffer:
In Java Edition , data packs can change this list by modifying the minecraft:sniffer_diggable_block block tag .
Sniffers cannot dig on mycelium . [3]
A player can breed sniffers by using torchflower seeds on two sniffers. In Bedrock Edition , only sniffers at full health can breed. When two adult sniffers breed, they drop a sniffer egg as an item on the ground, and then enter a 5-minute cooldown before they can breed again. Once placed by a player, a sniffer egg hatches after 10 minutes if placed on a moss block or 20 minutes otherwise.
In Bedrock Edition , sniffers are healed by 2 HP health points each time they are fed a torchflower seed.
A baby sniffer is called a snifflet . [4] Snifflets require 48000 game ticks to grow up into adult sniffers, which is equal to 40 minutes or two in-game days, twice as long as most other baby mobs in the game. The remaining growth time is reduced by 10% each time a snifflet is fed torchflower seeds.
Snifflets cannot dig.
Unlike most baby mobs, snifflets do not follow the adults. [5]
There is an initial lag period between snifflets growing into adults and splooting for seeds.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Sniffers have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Sniffer" or "Snifflet" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Turtles are passive mobs found in beach biomes. They can be bred with seagrass and lay turtle eggs . They are the only source of turtle scutes , which drop from baby turtles when they mature into adults, and can be used to craft turtle shell helmets.
Turtles occasionally spawn in small groups on the sand in beaches , but not in snowy beaches or stony shores .
Turtles have a 5% chance to spawn as babies.
In Java Edition , turtles spawn in groups of up to 5 individuals, y level less than 4 blocks above sea level (from y level -64 to 66, inclusive), and on blocks with the sand tag (sand, red sand, and suspicious sand).
In Bedrock Edition , turtles spawn in groups of 2–6, at Y=60–67.
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP is dropped.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Baby turtles do not drop anything when they die .
When a baby turtle matures into an adult, it drops 1 turtle scute .
Turtles can move around slowly on land and swim at a fast speed in water . Like other passive mobs, they move around aimlessly and flee when attacked. When on land, they generally attempt to move to the nearest water source that is at least 2 blocks deep, regardless if player made or natural. When in an enclosed area, such as a player-made enclosure, they generally swim in circles if the water is in the area, and rarely go on land to explore, if there is any.
Turtles cannot be attached to leads , [1] but they can be led by a player holding seagrass within 10 blocks of the turtle.
Turtles can be picked up by boats and minecarts .
Turtles are directly dealt 3.4×10 38 ( × 1.7×10 38 ) damage in Java Edition and take 200,000% of the base damage in Bedrock Edition when struck by lightning.
As with other aquatic mobs , turtles suffer extra damage when hit by a trident with the Impaling enchantment in Java Edition , and cannot drown regardless of version despite the fact that real-life turtles breathe air.
Turtles and turtle eggs are attacked by the following mobs:
Parched Skeleton Stray Stray cat Wild ocelot Wild wolf Wither Skeleton
Zombies and their variants deliberately trample on turtle eggs, causing them to break. The range of detection is a 47×7×47‌‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 11×5×11‌‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] box centered on the block the mob is standing on.
A turtle remembers the block on which it spawned as its home position. No matter how far away the turtle is, it always attempts to return to its home position to lay its eggs after breeding .
If the player uses a tool enchanted with Silk Touch to obtain and move turtle eggs to a new location before hatching, the baby turtles remember the new hatching location as their home beach.
If a turtle is spawned from a spawn egg , summoned with the / summon command , or spawned by a monster spawner , it remembers the spawn location as its home position.
Feeding two turtles seagrass results in them entering love mode and one of the turtles becoming pregnant. The pregnant turtle has eggs in its body and is therefore about 0.2 blocks taller than normal.
The turtle then travels back to its home position, which is where it first spawned. The turtle does not stop traveling until it is within a 9-block distance from its home position. Upon arrival, it seeks a nearby sand block on which to lay its eggs. Then, it spends a few seconds to a few minutes digging vigorously while turning 180 degrees a few times. Finally, it lays a cluster of 1–4 turtle eggs, as a single block. Turtles have a cooldown of 90 seconds (1800 game ticks ) after breeding in Bedrock Edition , or 5 minutes (300 seconds; 6000 game ticks ) in Java Edition .
Turtle eggs progress toward hatching by cracking. Cracking occurs during random ticks , and an egg hatches once it has cracked 3 times. When a cluster of eggs hatches, all eggs within the block hatch simultaneously. Eggs grow faster at night and typically take 4 to 5 in-game days to hatch. Mining a cluster of turtle eggs with Silk Touch causes it to drop one egg at a time, which the player can collect. Eggs do not preserve the cracking stage when harvested.
Turtle eggs can be placed on any block in clusters of up to 4; however, they only hatch on sand , red sand , or suspicious sand , above or below water. Eggs can be broken without tools and can also be trampled by living entities falling or walking on them. When a cluster is trampled, the eggs crack and break one at a time. A turtle can walk on turtle eggs without breaking them.
With a height of 0.12 blocks, baby turtles are among the smallest mobs in the game. Baby turtles are small enough that when they walk on soul sand , they are entirely within the space at the top of the block .
Upon hatching, baby turtles search for the nearest water block within a 47×1×47 region two blocks below the turtle and attempt to approach it.
Baby turtles take one Minecraft day to grow up (20 minutes). The growth can be accelerated using seagrass . Each use reduces the remaining growth duration by 10%. Upon becoming an adult, the turtle drops a turtle scute .
Stray cats attack baby turtles within 15 blocks; tamed cats do not. The baby turtles make no attempt to flee from cats, even while being attacked.
The golden dandelion can be used on baby turtles to stop them from aging, and can be used on them again to resume their growth.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Turtles have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Turtle" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A zombie villager is a variant of the zombie that can be cured into a normal villager using a golden apple while it is under the effect of Weakness .
In Java Edition , when zombies spawn during the normal cycle, there is a 5% chance that one of them will be replaced with a zombie villager. This chance increases to 20% in old growth pine taiga biomes.
In Bedrock Edition , when zombies spawn during the normal cycle, there is a 5% chance that 2–4 of them will be replaced with zombie villagers.
Additionally, if a zombie , husk , drowned , zombie villager, or zombified piglin ‌ [ JE only ] kills a villager , that villager has a chance of turning into a zombie villager depending on the game difficulty.
In Java Edition , a converted zombie villager does not despawn if the player has traded with it at least once prior to its conversion, but unlike all other persistent mobs it still counts toward the hostile mob cap. If the zombie villager picks up any item however, it remains persistent but is excluded from the mob cap. In Bedrock Edition all converted zombie villagers are persistent.
Zombie villagers may also spawn as part of abandoned villages during world generation, the number of which depends on the buildings in that village, as some buildings generate zombie villagers inside and some do not. Like villagers, the zombie villagers’ biome outfits are based on the type of village. These zombie villagers are persistent and do not despawn. In Bedrock Edition [verify] , these zombie villagers can open doors instead of breaking them.
A zombie villager appears alongside a cleric villager in every igloo basement (a normal zombie villager in Bedrock Edition and a cleric zombie villager in Java Edition ), both locked in small cages behind iron bars . One of them transforms into a leatherworker, due to the workstation (a cauldron). The zombie villager is persistent and does not despawn.
On Hard difficulty , all zombie villagers have a 0-10% chance to spawn other zombie villagers as reinforcements when receiving damage while targeting an entity . Additionally, up to 5% of zombie villagers spawn as leaders, getting a 50-75% boost to that chance.
Baby zombie villagers make up 5% of zombie villager spawns. They behave similarly to regular zombie villagers, with the following differences:
Baby zombie villagers are spawned when a zombie kills a baby villager , the chance of infection being the same as adult zombie villagers. Baby zombie villagers also spawn naturally, but the combined chance (5% villagers × 5% babies) is low at 0.25% (or 1 in 400 chance) of all newly spawned zombies.
In Bedrock Edition , 15% of naturally spawned baby zombie villagers can start riding a skeleton horse and become a jockey after it spawns. They are also supposed to ride mobs that baby zombies, baby husks , and gurgles ride but do not due to MCPE-234690 .
This is due to the fact that in the zombie_villager_v2.json file, in the baby component group, it has the minecraft:type_family component, which has baby_undead , which makes the baby zombie villager able to ride mobs.
However, in the minecraft:entity_spawned event , there is an incorrect entity filter applied when a zombie villager spawns with a profession:
The second commented entity filter tries to prevent adding professions to babies, but filters like this only apply when in a "lifetime" event, not a spawning event. Thus, this filter has no effect on the baby zombie villagers that spawn. The component groups of the professions that zombie villagers have contain the minecraft:type_family components that override the baby component group's minecraft:type_family component, preventing baby zombie villagers being part of the baby_undead family , which prevents them from riding mobs. However, they are still part of the zombie family, and skeleton horses are rideable by mobs in said family, which means that baby zombie villager jockeys can only search for nearby skeleton horses to mount.
Using the / ride command, it is possible to make a "converted" baby zombie villager ride:
Along with skeletons and regular zombies , some zombie villagers are capable of picking up dropped items . These zombie villagers automatically pick up and hold any item that they come across (except jack o'lanterns ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , mob heads and pumpkins , as these are worn on their heads), and use any armor , weapons , or tools picked up. If they encounter another similar item, they pick it up and drop their previous item:
Items dropped by mobs in exchange for another cannot be picked up by players or mobs for 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds, barring lag), but can be picked up by hoppers .
Armor worn by zombie villagers is not damaged from most damage sources, which means it cannot "wear out" the way player armor does. Helmets (not blocks like pumpkins ) on zombie villagers can wear away and break if the zombie villager is exposed to daylight, or has an anvil or other falling block dropped on its head. Zombie villagers also have a natural armor rating of 2 ( ), which gives 1.6 - 8% damage reduction from most sources .
Some zombie villagers that are capable of picking up items spawn already in possession of such items, and those items may also be enchanted . The chances of that event are listed below. If a zombie villager spawns wearing multiple pieces of armor , the armor is never mismatched (i.e. all pieces are made of the same material).
If a zombie villager does spawn with armor, the chances of specific armor are as follows:
The chances of particular materials are:
Any zombie villager that spawns with equipment‌ [ Java Edition only ] (picked-up items don't count) drops 1–3 extra experience per item .
A zombie villager retains its biome outfit and profession after zombification from a villager. They also retain their trades. Zombie villagers with a profession cannot work at a job site block.
Below is a table listing the various biome outfits and professions, along with the specific job site block that each profession requires:
A zombie villager has variants depending on what biome it had spawned in, a Plains variant spawning in Sunflower Plains is an example.
Plains variant
Taiga variant
Jungle variant
Savanna variant
Snowy variant
Swamp variant
Desert variant
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Any picked-up equipment has a 100% chance of dropping on death or when cured and drops with the same damage level it had when picked up.
In Java Edition [1] , a zombie villager can spawn with any of the following:
Zombie villagers have an 8.5% chance of dropping their naturally-spawned equipment (other than Halloween pumpkins), and drop it with a random durability. Each level of Looting increases the chance by 1 percentage point (11.5% with Looting III). They cannot drop the diamond swords that they occasionally wield during ominous trials.
Adult zombie villagers drop 5 XP and an additional 1–3 XP per naturally-spawned equipment. Baby zombie villagers drop 12 XP experience.
Zombie villagers behave as ordinary zombies , except that they do not convert to drowned when submerged.
Zombie villagers that were converted from villagers retain their professions and clothes, which gain a tattered appearance. Naturally spawned zombie villagers (or ones spawned with spawn eggs) have a random profession, and can also spawn with unemployed or nitwit outfits. In Bedrock Edition , due to a bug, baby zombie villagers can have professions.
In Java Edition , zombie villagers are never spawned as part of a zombie siege , but if a zombie villager naturally spawns nearby, it will join the siege and behave like all other zombies.
Zombie villagers wielding spears have different attacking behavior. When attacking, they use the spear's charge attack while moving towards their target. They hold the charge through its full duration, using all 3 stages. Once the charge attack has ended or they get too close to their target, they walk away to increase the distance between them and their target before turning around to begin another charge.
Being an undead mob, they are:
Zombie villagers can be cured (converted to normal villagers ) by first giving them the Weakness effect, which can be applied by:
The weakened zombie villager must then be healed by using a (non-enchanted [2] ) golden apple on it. The zombie villager begins to shudder to signal that curing is in progress. Also, the Weakness effect is removed, replaced by Strength for the duration of the curing process. An internal countdown timer is then started, counting down the total time to cure.
Time to cure is initially a random integer between 3600 and 6000 ticks (180 to 300 seconds, 3 to 5 minutes). On each tick, there is a 1% chance for the game to look for cure accelerants. It checks each block within a 9×9×9 cube centered on the villager for either iron bars or a bed (either half of a bed, detected separately; copper bars are ignored). For each one found up to 14, there is a 30% chance of decreasing the countdown timer by 1 more tick. Therefore, having at least 14 half-beds and/or iron bars within range speeds up conversion by an average of 4.2%. [3]
During the curing process, the zombie villager behaves like a normal zombie except that it gains Strength (with a potency that doesn't depend on the difficulty level). Thus, a zombie villager is more dangerous during curing than at other times.
At the end of the curing process, the zombie villager transforms into a villager and gains the Nausea effect for 10 seconds (which has no effect on the villager's behavior). If it was holding any item it picked up, that item is dropped (unless it was enchanted with Curse of Binding , in which case it remains in the villager's inventory but is not worn and does not drop if the villager is killed). If it was a baby before it was transformed into a zombie villager, it remains a baby after the cure. If it had traded with a player at least once, it recovers its former profession and inventory of trades. Otherwise, it recovers its profession but might immediately change it if it finds and claims a workstation block for a different profession.
A newly-cured villager, if it had a profession prior to being zombified, offers a trading discount to the player who administered the cure. These discounts are permanent. If a villager is cured more than once, no additional discounts are applied. Villagers near the cured villager are also affected but offer fewer, smaller discounts.
Zombie villagers that are in the process of converting do not despawn if the player moves far away from them, but like all monsters, they despawn if the difficulty is changed to Peaceful.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or gurgles may ride an adult zombie villager to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Zombie villagers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Zombie Villager" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A skeleton horse is an undead skeletal horse that sometimes spawns when lightning strikes as a skeleton horseman. Despite being undead, it does not burn in sunlight . It becomes passive once separated from its rider.
A skeleton horseman is a skeleton wearing an enchanted iron helmet that rides and controls a skeleton horse.
A "skeleton trap" horse is a skeleton horse spawned from a fraction of lightning generated naturally by a thunderstorm (0.75–1.5% chance on Easy, 1.5–4% on Normal, and 2.25–6.75% on Hard difficulty , depending on regional difficulty ). In Java Edition , the lightning that spawns a trap horse doesn't strike nearby entities or spawn fires . Lightning strikes created from a Channeling -enchanted trident and lightning strikes directed to a lightning rod never spawn a skeleton trap horse. The trap horse despawns after 15 minutes if not triggered (even if it is named). Trap horses will spawn in any biome where it can rain, even in mushroom fields and deep dark . [1] [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
In Java Edition , skeleton horses do not spawn in Peaceful difficulty , like hostile mobs. [ verify for Bedrock Edition ] Note that skeleton traps do not follow other mob spawning rules and can spawn on basically any block. They can even spawn when the game rule spawn_monsters ‌ [ Java Edition only ] is false. [2]
Baby skeleton horses cannot spawn naturally.
The skeleton trap horse is triggered when a player approaches within 10 blocks of it, resulting in a lightning strike that does not start fires or damage nearby entities. When struck, the skeleton trap horse transforms into a skeleton horseman : a skeleton riding a skeleton horse. It also spawns three additional skeleton horsemen in the vicinity.
The skeleton rider is equipped with an enchanted iron helmet along with an enchanted bow . Like regular skeletons, they also have a chance to spawn with various pieces of armor or with the ability to pick up equipment on the ground. The skeleton riders are always regular skeletons, and never spawn as strays , bogged , parched , or wither skeletons . Like the horses themselves, the skeleton riders are persistent, meaning they do not despawn unless the difficulty is set to "Peaceful".
In Java Edition , both the horse and rider have damage immunity for 3 seconds after spawning. In Bedrock Edition , both the horse and rider are always immune to lightning. Once its skeleton rider is killed, the skeleton horse becomes completely passive, allowing for it to be ridden.
A skeleton trap horse, and therefore skeleton horsemen, can also be manually spawned using commands :
Java Edition / summon skeleton_horse ~ ~ ~ {SkeletonTrap:1}
Bedrock Edition / summon skeleton_horse ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:set_trap .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
If saddled, it drops a saddle.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Killing a baby skeleton horse yields no items or experience. In Bedrock Edition , killing a trap skeleton horse also yields no items or experience.
The skeleton horse is an undead mob that spawns and triggers a "skeleton trap" if the player gets too close. Once the skeleton rider is defeated, the skeleton horse becomes completely passive. Skeleton horses behave like normal horses, roaming idly and occasionally stopping to rear, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep , the eating animation does not actually cause any grass to be consumed. Skeleton horses can breathe in water.
Skeleton horses can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Skeleton horses also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a skeleton horse, they receive the same fall damage as the skeleton horse.
Skeleton horses have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick.
Unlike most passive mobs, skeleton horses don't panic when damaged.
Skeleton horses cannot be bred .
Other notes:
Differences/inconsistencies of skeleton horses with other undead mounts, such as zombie horses , camel husks , and zombie nautiluses :
Being an undead mob, they are:
As they are monsters, golden dandelions do not work on baby skeleton horses.
As they are under the skeletons entity type tag , creepers drop a music disc when killed by a skeleton horse. [ note 2 ]
In Bedrock Edition , a skeleton horse is always tamed . In Java Edition , a skeleton trap horse becomes tamed when the trap activates (unrelated to the fake lightning strike that the trap also creates). The other three skeleton horses are tamed when they are spawned.
In Java Edition , with the use of commands, a skeleton horse can be tamed in the same way as a regular horse, granting the Best Friends Forever advancement.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , zombie villagers , or drowned may ride an adult skeleton horse to form a jockey , if the skeleton horse has no riders.
Horses have three "equine stats" that vary from horse to horse: health, maximum movement speed, and jump strength. However, only jump strength will vary between skeleton horses. Jump strength is decided once the horse is spawned, and is not affected by food.
When spawned in any way except breeding – for instance, using commands, spawning naturally, spawning as part of a skeleton trap, or using spawn eggs – horses are assigned their stats within certain ranges, specific according to their horse type.
A skeleton horse's health is always 15. Displayed hearts are health, divided by two, rounded down. A horse with an odd number of health points (15, 17, 19, etc.) does not show the last half-heart. If the horse has lost one health point lower than the inflicted damage and did not regenerate, it has an odd number of health points, otherwise, it has an even number of health points.
A skeleton horse's speed is always 0.2; the player's normal walking speed is 0.1. The speed listed does not include any status effect that affects the speed of a horse or a player.
See Transportation § Methods to compare the speeds of various transportation methods.
Jump strength ranges from 0.4–1.0, averaging 0.7.
A jump strength of 0.5 is enough to clear 1 19 ⁄ 32 blocks, while 1.0 is enough to clear 5 9 ⁄ 32 blocks.
The jump strengths required to clear several block heights are:
As with normal horses, skeleton horses can be ridden by a player. When ridden, they can be used to climb hills and jump fences because the skeleton horses can jump up to five block heights, versus the player's maximum of one (without jump boost).
Skeleton horses can be ridden in water at any depth without forcing the player to dismount. They sink to the bottom and can be ridden along the ocean or river floor.
Skeleton horses can be pulled or tethered with a lead .
Skeleton horses have the following slot available:
Saddles can be placed on a tamed skeleton horse by holding it and then using on the skeleton horse, or by accessing its inventory. A skeleton horse’s inventory can be accessed by mounting the skeleton horse and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using on the skeleton horse.
The saddle can be removed by two methods:
Baby skeleton horses cannot be equipped, as they cannot be ridden.
A skeleton horse does not have an inventory and cannot be equipped with a saddle or horse armor. Despite this, the default texture file, like those of normal horses, donkeys and mules , includes a chest.
In Bedrock Edition , skeleton horses can be controlled by the player without a saddle. In Java Edition , skeleton horses must be equipped with a saddle to be controlled. Like riding other entities, a player can travel into a nether portal or end portal while on a skeleton horse.
The player can control a tamed (and saddled Java Edition ) skeleton horse with standard directional controls, jump , and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control.
A player controlled skeleton horse automatically runs up any one block high slope. The skeleton horse and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The horse itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. Skeleton horses cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap.
Player controlled skeleton horses have the ability of "jumping charging". When the player rides them, the experience bar on HUD is replaced by jumping charging bar. A controlled skeleton horse can be made to jump and holding the control charges for a higher leap. Skeleton horses are not affected by jump boost beacons or potions.
Unlike normal horses, a skeleton horse does not force the player to dismount when it is under water ; rather, it can be ridden underwater without drowning. The player can still drown underwater without the proper potions or enchantments, even when mounted on the skeleton horse. When underwater, its running speed and jump remain the same although it has a slower rate of descent.
Skeleton horse sounds are the sounds of the regular horse but lower pitched and slowed with reverb. Despite being monsters, skeleton horses use the "Friendly Mobs" sound category. [10]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Skeleton horses have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Unlike all other undead mounts, killing a skeleton horse does not grant the Monster Hunter advancement and is not required in order to complete the Monsters Hunted advancement. [4]
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Skeleton horse" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A zombie horse is an undead variant of the horse . It rarely spawns in dark areas as a hostile mob being ridden and controlled by a zombie horseman wielding an iron spear . It becomes passive once separated from the zombie rider.
Zombie horses can naturally spawn on grass blocks in savanna , savanna plateau , windswept savanna , plains , sunflower plains , and snowy plains biomes as zombie horsemen : a zombie wielding an iron spear riding a zombie horse. Like zombies themselves, zombie horsemen can only spawn at a light level of 0‌ [ Java Edition only ] , or light levels below 7‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [1] , both above ground and underground. They will also burn in daylight. However, due to the lack of grass blocks underground in the Overworld , they are mostly found on the surface. The zombie horse never spawns as a baby. Other zombie variants such as husks and zombie villagers cannot spawn as horsemen. In Bedrock Edition , zombie horses are programmed to spawn in ice spikes biomes, but they fail to do so naturally, as the biome's surface is made of snow blocks instead of grass blocks, meaning they also cannot spawn underground in that biome.
Zombie horses count towards the "monster" mob cap and can despawn like most hostile mobs until the first time any player interacts with it. At that point it becomes persistent and no longer counts towards any mob cap either.
When using the zombie horse's spawn egg , 20% of spawned zombie horses will be the otherwise unused baby variant.
In Java Edition , zombie horses spawn in Peaceful difficulty , unlike other monsters.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
If equipped with a saddle or horse armor, the saddle and/or horse armor will be dropped upon death.
Baby zombie horses yield neither items nor experience.
The zombie horse is an undead mob that spawns as a hostile mob with a zombie controlling it, as the rider controls its pathfinding, making the zombie horse target the player. On their own, zombie horses behave like normal horses, roaming idly and occasionally stopping to rear, swish their tails, or lower their heads as though eating the grass. Unlike sheep and like other horses, the eating animation does not cause any grass to be consumed.
Like other undead mobs, zombie horses can breathe in water. Unlike skeleton horses and other undead, they do not sink - they float - in or on water .
Zombie horses have a 1 ⁄ 900 chance to regenerate 1 HP health point each game tick. [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
Zombie horses can safely fall 6 blocks before they begin to accumulate fall damage , unlike most mobs, which can only safely fall 3 blocks. Zombie horses also take half of the normal fall damage (rounded up) that most other mobs take (0.5 HP × 0.25 damage per block over the safe distance instead of 1 HP ). If an entity is riding a zombie horse, they receive the same fall damage as the zombie horse.
Zombie horses cannot be bred .
Unlike most passive mobs, zombie horses don't panic when damaged.
If a player pulling a zombie horse with a lead enters a boat , the zombie horse follows by swimming the same speed as the boat. A player riding a zombie horse is dragged along if the zombie horse is being pulled by a lead, and can even be lifted up in the air in the same way.
In Java Edition , zombie horses are never spawned as part of a zombie siege , but if a zombie horseman naturally spawns nearby, it will join the siege and behave like all other zombies.
Being an undead mob, they are:
Like most other undead mobs, zombie horses burn in direct sunlight. They are protected from burning when wearing horse armor, similar to other undead mobs wearing helmets . As horse armor has no durability , it does not break from absorbing the damage like helmets do.
As they are monsters , zombie horses count towards the hostile mob cap.
Parrots can also imitate them like other hostile mobs.‌ [ JE only ]
As they are monsters, golden dandelions do not work on baby zombie horses.
As with regular horses, zombie horses can be tamed by riding them until they stop bucking the player off.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult untamed zombie horse to form a jockey .
All zombie horses have three "equine stats": health, (maximum) movement speed, and jump height. While health is the same for all zombie horses, movement speed and jump height vary from horse to horse.
Zombie horses are spawned with a constant health of 25 HP × 12.5 . The last half-heart is not shown in a zombie horse's health bar, which only displays 24 HP × 12 .
A zombie horse's movement speed is randomly assigned within certain ranges which vary between Java Edition and Bedrock Edition . In Java Edition , it ranges between ~0.21347 and ~0.28463 in internal units, with an average of ~0.24905. In Bedrock Edition , it ranges between 0.205 and 0.275, with an average of 0.24. The conversion factor between internal units and blocks/sec is roughly 43.17.
Zombie horses' jump strength ranges from 0.5 to 0.7, with an average of 0.6 in internal units.
The minimum jump strength of 0.5 is enough to clear 1.7088 blocks, while the maximum of 0.7 is enough to clear 3.124 blocks. The average jump strength of 0.6 is enough to clear 2.3675 blocks.
Tamed and saddled zombie horses can be used as a means of transportation . They can also be used to climb hills and jump fences.
Red mushrooms can be fed to a zombie horse to heal it by 3 HP . The zombie horse can also be tempted (or "led") with a red mushroom.
Tamed zombie horses have two equipment slots:
Baby zombie horses cannot be equipped, as they cannot be ridden.
Equipment can be placed on a zombie horse by holding it and then using on the zombie horse, or by accessing its inventory. A zombie horse’s inventory can be accessed by mounting the horse and using inventory control, or by sneaking and then using or pressing the "open inventory" button‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on the zombie horse. The player cannot open the inventory on an untamed zombie horse, though they can open containers.
The equipment can be removed by two methods:
Once a zombie horse is tamed and saddled, the player can control it with directional controls, jump , and the mouse. The player dismounts using the dismount control. Like when riding other entities, it is possible for a player to use a nether portal or end portal while on a zombie horse.
A ridden zombie horse automatically runs up any one-block-high slope. The horse and rider can safely fit through a space as low as 2.75 blocks high. Lower clearance risks suffocating the rider if the rider's head enters a non-transparent block. The zombie horse itself can enter gaps as low as 1.625 blocks high, but may itself take suffocation damage when clearance is less than 1.75 blocks. Like other horses, zombie horses cannot fit through a 1-block-wide gap.
Ridden zombie horses have the ability of "jump charging". When the player rides them, the experience bar on the HUD is replaced by a jump charging bar. The zombie horse is then able to jump , and holding the control charges for a higher leap. Zombie horses are not affected by the Jump Boost effect.
Despite being monsters, zombie horses use the "Friendly Mobs" sound category. [2]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Zombie horses have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Zombie Horse" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The illusioner is an unused illager armed with a bow . It attacks using illusions and can also fire arrows .
Illusioners do not spawn naturally in any way without commands, nor do they have a spawn egg in the Creative inventory . An illusioner can be spawned only using data packs or the / summon minecraft:illusioner in-game command . Illusioners will despawn out of simulation distance even if named with a name tag .
When an illusioner is killed by a player or a tamed wolf , any naturally spawned equipment , including its unenchanted bow , has an 8.5% chance of dropping (or 9.5% with Looting I, 10.5% with Looting II and 11.5% with Looting III) and drops with a random item durability . In addition, 5 XP experience orbs are dropped on player or tamed wolf kills.
The illusioner also drops one illager ominous banner and one ominous bottle if it is a raid captain .
Although they do not naturally spawn in raids, illusioners spawned by the player attack players , adult villagers , iron golems , and wandering traders within a 16×4×16 cubic area.
An illusioner joins a nearby raid if it occurs or joins a patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain .
The illusioner attacks with its spells and its bow , firing an arrow every second, three times faster than a skeleton . Unless the illusioner is summoned using commands , it cannot attack with a non-bow item in its hand, cannot use tipped arrows in its offhand slot (but can use spectral arrows ) and cannot use enchanted bows. Also, it is the only illager that can see its target through walls.
The Illusioner moves quickly on a semi-circular fashion and always tries to maintain a consistent distance between itself and the player, strafing from left to right and vice-versa, retreating if the player gets too close or advancing if the player retreats.
Finally, the illusioner has two spells: a spell that blinds its opponent and a spell that summons visual pseudo-duplicates and makes the illusioner invisible.
If a bow is not in the illusioner's main hand, the illusioner does not attack players or villagers, but can still cast Blindness . An unarmed illusioner can be spawned with the command / summon minecraft:illusioner ~ ~ ~ {} .
The illusioner casts its Blindness spell only if the regional difficulty is greater than 2. As a result, the world difficulty setting , the inhabited time of the chunk , the total daytime in the world and the phase of the moon from the day-night cycle affects its ability.
This spell gives a Blindness effect that lasts for 20 seconds upon first engaging a new player opponent. The illusioner signals this attack by raising its arms during a short-timed animation, making a low pitched sound and producing a black mist of particles ( ). Other entities (typically a wolf, a snow golem or an iron golem ) do not trigger this magic. The illusioner does not cast this spell more than once on the same player opponent, unless it has first shifted its attention to another opponent and then back to that original opponent.
This spell resets the illusioner's spell cooldown to 1 second and resets the cooldown for the blinding spell to 9 seconds .
As long as an illusioner is engaged in combat , it casts an Invisibility status effect on itself that lasts 60 seconds and refreshes the effect whenever the Invisibility's time runs out. The illusioner signals this spell by raising its arms, making a strange high pitched sound and producing a blue mist of particles called "mirror".
When an illusioner becomes invisible through this or another method, it creates four false duplicates of itself. These hover and waver at short distances from the actually invisible illusioner, though they do not space themselves out until the first time the illusioner is attacked. They face in exactly the same direction as the illusioner and move somewhat in step with the original, appearing to phase through blocks like a vex does. Despite using the shooting animation whenever the original uses its bow, only the real illusioner can shoot and be damaged.
The clones move to new positions if they were not triggered and are still bunched together. The illusioner can also do this once in a while to "refresh" the clones' positions.
When the real illusioner is damaged, its duplicates all snap back to where the real illusioner is, then quickly snap back out to new positions, making a teleporting sound, signaling the hit.
If an invisible illusioner receives the Glowing effect, all of the duplicates glow, while the true illusioner remains invisible. However, only the invisible illusioner burns when catching fire .
The duplicates disappear once the illusioner's Invisibility effect ends.
This spell resets the illusioner's spell cooldown to 1 second and resets the cooldown for the invisibility spell to 17 seconds .
Illusioners have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Illusioners are an unsupported mob and as such issues relating to them may not be fixed.
Issues relating to "Illusioner" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A vindicator is an illager equipped with an iron axe . Vindicators spawn in woodland mansions and participate in raids . They sprint toward their targets to attack them with their axe.
On Normal difficulty and Hard difficulty, vindicators sometimes spawn with a randomly enchanted iron axe : the chance is 0–25%, and is higher when the regional difficulty is higher.
Vindicators spawn during the generation of woodland mansions , in groups of 1–3 inside particular rooms, sometimes accompanied by an evoker . They spawn on all 3 floors. Rarely, vindicators can spawn in the corridors and hallways.
They do not respawn after initially spawning. Vindicators generated in woodland mansions do not despawn.
Vindicators are sometimes neutral if naturally spawned in a woodland mansion, which means that the vindicator does not attack the player on sight, but only after the player attacks it. [verify]
In Java Edition , any vindicators can join a patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain , but do not go seeking out for patrols to join nor do they naturally spawn in a patrol.
Vindicators can spawn during raids . They appear more frequently during later waves and at higher difficulties.
Vindicators that spawn from raids have a chance to spawn with Sharpness I on their axe, or Sharpness II in waves 6 and up. This replaces the usual chance of a random enchantment.
Vindicators can spawn riding ravagers , creating a vindicator ravager jockey .‌ [ JE only ]
In Java Edition , if a player spawns a vindicator with a spawn egg or using a command, the vindicator has a chance of becoming a raid captain , with an ominous banner attached above its back.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A vindicator drops loot only when killed by a player or tamed wolf :
Vindicators are hostile toward players , iron golems , adult villagers , wandering traders , and snow golems .‌ [ BE only ]
While idle, a vindicator crosses its arms similar to a villager , with its axe stowed. While giving chase, the vindicator brandishes its axe and sprints . If it has no weapons, a mainhand-unarmed vindicator raises both of its hands when attacking.
On Normal and Hard difficulties, vindicators that are part of a raid can break wooden doors . This is controlled by the raider tag . [1] Like any illager during a raid, vindicators celebrate by cheering if all the villagers are killed or all the beds are destroyed.
All illagers remain friendly to each other, even when struck accidentally.
Vindicators flee from creakings when within 8 blocks of them.
Vindicators are likely to call help from other vindicators when attacked by mobs (except for illagers and goats , or if they were killed in one hit), inciting them all to attack the aggressor. They do not call help from other kinds of illagers.
Vindicator raiders, in addition to breaking doors, can also open wooden and copper doors like villagers.
Ringing a bell gives all vindicators within 32 blocks the Glowing effect for 3 seconds.
Vindicators can only sprint, even when idle.
A dispenser can equip a vindicator with armor, but it is invisible and does not show on its model.
Armed vindicators hit for 7.5 HP × 3.75 to 19.5 HP × 9.75 damage, depending on difficulty . They tie with piglin brutes for dealing the fourth most melee damage in the game, following the iron golem at 21.5 HP × 10.75 damage, the warden at 30 HP × 15 damage, and the giant at 50 HP × 25 damage, all on Normal difficulty. Unless named "Johnny", vindicators are the only illagers that do not cause mobs to retaliate against it.
The vindicator's axe attack disables the player's shield for 5 seconds, even when riding a ravager .
A vindicator named Johnny (using a name tag , named spawn egg , etc., or has its Johnny tag set to 1b ) is hostile to armor stands ‌ [ BE only ] [2] , cameras ‌ [ BE only ] , players in Adventure or Survival mode and all mobs except agents ‌ [ BE & edu only ] , evokers , ghasts [3] , illusioners ‌ [ JE only ] , other vindicators, and pillagers . This includes baby villagers ‌ [ BE only ] [4] , creakings (although it flees from it before it can attack), creepers , ravagers [5] , vexes [6] , and witches . [7] Vexes or witches do not attack "Johnny" vindicators unless provoked by vindicators.
"Johnny" vindicators also attempt to attack the ender dragon , but the ender dragon does not take damage.
During a raid in Java Edition , a "Johnny" vindicator raid captain may order a ravager or witch to attack itself, and the mob does so until it dies. [8]
Most hostile or neutral mobs try to attack the "Johnny" vindicator in return. Exceptions are:
The Johnny tag overrides its name; the player can give the vindicator any other name and set the Johnny tag to 1b and it remains hostile in the same way as described. Conversely, the player can name the vindicator " Johnny " and set the Johnny tag to 0b , causing the vindicator to act as a normal vindicator.
In Java Edition , using a name tag to rename a "Johnny" vindicator does not reset its Johnny tag, and it continues to exhibit "Johnny" behavior.
In Bedrock Edition , naming a vindicator spawn egg "Johnny" and using it on a monster spawner has no effect; normal vindicators spawn rather than vindicators named "Johnny".
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Vindicators also have entities' data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Vindicator" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An evoker is a spell-casting illager that can be found in woodland mansions and as part of raids . They are the only source of totems of undying . Evokers use two spells to attack: one that summons armor-piercing fangs and one that summons vexes . This is the only way for vexes to spawn (without using Creative mode or commands ).
Evokers spawn during the generation of particular woodland mansion rooms. They only spawn on floor 2 and 3. They do not respawn after their initial spawn.
Evokers spawned with mansions do not naturally despawn (unless the world difficulty is switched to Peaceful).
In Normal and Hard difficulty , evokers can spawn during raids by themselves or riding ravagers .
Evokers spawn during raids starting at wave 5. On Hard difficulty, evokers can also spawn riding a ravager at wave 7. Up to five evokers spawn on Hard difficulty. During these events, they may also spawn as a raid captain .
Up to five evokers spawn during raids, with one evoker spawning during waves five and six, and three evokers spawning during wave seven. One of them rides a ravager during wave seven.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
An evoker moves at the player 's sprinting speed, crosses its arms and does not show its hands.
Evokers attack players , adult villagers , iron golems , snow golems ,‌ [ BE only ] and wandering traders within 12 blocks by raising and waving both of their arms while looking at their target and summoning magical fangs or vexes , creating different colored particles for the different attacks.
If the player is within a ten block radius and the evoker is not in the middle of summoning an attack, the evoker flees from the player to avoid being attacked.
If an evoker is attacked, all evokers in a twelve block radius become alerted and start attacking the player, even if they are behind walls. In Java Edition , the alerted evokers can attack the player from an infinite distance away, even if the player switches to Creative or Spectator mode [2] ; this can be fixed by relogging the world, or by setting the game rule universalAnger to True . This is only true for the alerted evokers, not the initially attacked evoker.
An evoker is passive to other illagers even if it is harmed. Any evoker can search for and join a patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain .
In Java Edition , evokers and illusioners are faster without any effects during raids.
In Java Edition , evokers are given three seconds of the Glowing effect if a bell is rung within 32 blocks of them. This applies to both evokers spawned in raids and evokers spawned in woodland mansions.
Evokers flee from creakings when within 8 blocks of them.
The evoker signals this attack by producing purplish-grey particles ( ) and a low-pitched sound .
A number of fangs rise out of the ground around the player, then snap shut and vanish. The fangs also produce brown particle effects when they close.
Players or mobs caught in the attack are dealt 6 HP damage , regardless of difficulty‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . This harm is not mitigated by armor but is mitigated by enchantments such as Protection . Any evoker-summoned fangs do not deal damage to any illagers, although fangs summoned or spawned by the player do. When a neutral or hostile mob (except illagers and goats ) is caught in the attack, the mob retaliates and attacks the evoker.
Fangs appear no lower than the feet of the lowest combatant and no higher than one block above the feet of the highest combatant. Fangs attempt to appear on the highest opaque block between those two extremes, but fail to spawn if they are obstructed by a solid block . In practice, this means that fangs cannot spawn inside deep pits or on top of high walls, but may, for example, go up a staircase if the target is at the top and the evoker at the bottom, or vice versa. Likewise, an evoker floating in a boat on water cannot summon fangs against a player swimming or floating in a boat because there are no opaque blocks from which the fangs can appear.
The evoker typically summons sixteen fangs in a straight line toward the target. However, if the target is within three blocks of the evoker, the evoker summons the fangs in two circles around itself: the smaller circle has five fangs and the larger has eight. The fangs do not seek the player, thus the player is able to dodge them. Summoning fangs resets the evoker's spell cooldown to two seconds and resets the cooldown for summoning fangs to five seconds.
The evoker signals this attack by producing purplish-white particles ( ) for two seconds and a higher-pitched sound . After that, three vexes appear nearby. The evoker can summon vexes as long as there are fewer than eight vexes within sixteen blocks centered on the evoker.
This spell resets the evoker's spell cooldown to five seconds and resets the cooldown for summoning vexes to seventeen seconds.
Non-air blocks that obstruct a vex's attempted spawning point will prevent it from spawning, meaning it is possible that a summoning can result in only one or two vexes spawning. [verify]
In Java Edition , evokers may summon two circle fangs while summoning vexes, without any cooldown. It usually happens when a player melee attacks an evoker while it is summoning vexes.
When an evoker is not engaged in combat, it can change the wool color of any blue sheep within sixteen blocks from blue to red. This is disabled when the mob_griefing game rule in Java Edition is set to false ; however, in Bedrock Edition , evokers can still change a sheep's color even when the mobgriefing game rule is set to false .
The evoker signals this spell by producing brownish-orange particles ( ) and making a " wololo " sound.
This spell resets the evoker's spell cooldown to 3 seconds (60 game ticks ) and resets the cooldown for the sheep color conversion spell to 7 seconds (140 game ticks ). Evokers look at the sheep they are using the spell on while they are doing the spell until they finish the spell.
Evoker fangs are entities that evokers use to attack the player (or adult villagers, iron golems, snow golems, and wandering traders) with their fang attack.
The individual fangs in an evoker's fang attacks each have a delay. Before the delay is over, the fangs cannot be seen, although unlike truly invisible entities, fangs in warmup still have a visible debug hitbox . After the delay, the fangs expand into existence, snap shut, make critical hit particles and shrink out of sight again, dealing 6 HP magic damage to all mobs standing on the spot.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Evokers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Evoker fangs have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Evoker" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A ravager is a large hostile mob that only spawns alongside illagers during raids . It attacks players , adult villagers , wandering traders , and iron golems by charging, biting, and roaring at them. A ravager can sometimes become stunned if its attack is blocked with a shield .
Ravagers spawn starting at wave 3 as part of a raid . Depending on the wave, difficulty , and Raid Omen level,‌ [ JE only ] they spawn independently or with a pillager , vindicator , or evoker that rides them as a ravager jockey .
Raids do not have extra waves.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A ravager drops 20 XP experience points when killed by a player or a tamed wolf .
Ravagers are hostile toward players , iron golems , adult villagers and wandering traders within a 32-block radius.
A ravager attacks by running toward its target and ramming with its head, dealing a knockback of 5 blocks. A ravager also attacks by opening and closing its mouth, biting its target. In Bedrock Edition , ravagers may occasionally miss players when trying to attack, unlike other mobs.
When a ravager sees a villager and an iron golem at the same time, it always prioritizes the villager, unless it is already fighting the iron golem.
Ravagers do not attack pillagers who shoot them by accident, and do not attack evokers when their evoker fangs accidentally hit them. When a vindicator riding a ravager has been named "Johnny" it may attack the ravager while it is riding it, but the ravager does not attack the vindicator for any reason. When a ravager gets hit by a mob’s projectile while it is attacking the player, the ravager first attempts to kill who shot it, then goes back to attacking the player once the deed is done. Any mob that doesn’t attack with projectiles requires a ravager to damage it with its roar in order to become hostile to it.
In Java Edition , a ravager who is attacked by a player or another mob (excluding illagers and goats) alerts other ravagers in the area to target the attacker, unless the ravager was killed in one hit.
When a ravager’s bite attack is blocked by a shield , no damage is dealt and knockback is halved, but the shield loses a considerable amount of durability . The ravager also has a 50% chance to become stunned and unable to move or attack for 2 seconds, signified by gray/purple effect particles. After this period, it opens its mouth and roars, dealing 6 HP damage and a knockback of 5 blocks to nearby entities. The roar knocks back nearby illagers without damaging them and has no effect on other ravagers. Illagers knocked back by a ravager's roar can still take fall damage.
Ravagers spawned separate from a raid (eg: from a spawn egg ) may join a raid if they are within 96 blocks of the raid center when a raid wave spawns.
In Java Edition , ravagers can also join patrols if they are close enough to the patrol captain .
Ravagers can also destroy some types of blocks by charging through them. In Java Edition , ravagers can break all leaves and only some crops . In Bedrock Edition , ravagers can break all leaves, most saplings , most crops, including most plants and mushrooms , snow , and turtle eggs .
Ravagers cannot destroy blocks if the mob_griefing ‌ [ JE only ] or mobgriefing ‌ [ BE only ] game rule is disabled.
Ravagers take 75% less knockback from attacks, but they still float in water . A ravager being ridden dismounts its rider if it moves into water that is at least two blocks deep. Riders cannot mount ravagers again after being dismounted.
Although ravagers have a large version of the saddle as part of their texture, they do not actually wear one, and they cannot be ridden by the player . Ravagers can only spawn in raids, sometimes with a pillager , evoker , or vindicator ‌ [ Java Edition only ] riding them; however, another mob and even the player can be allowed to ride a ravager using the / ride command .‌‌ [ Java Edition only ]
In Bedrock Edition ravagers have delayed hits ( hit_delay_pct: 0.5 ). When set to 0.0, ravager hits wouldn't be delayed to match Java Edition .
In Java Edition , ravagers can sometimes target and damage themselves [2] [3] . If a vindicator that spawns as part of a patrol , or as a raid captain during a raid, or has its Patrolling tag set to 1b through commands, is named "Johnny" with a name tag, the vindicator targets ravagers in addition to other mobs. The targeted ravager targets and damages itself if the ravager does not have another target and is within the vindicator's follow range. Other illagers, witches, and ravagers also target the ravager. The ravager can kill itself without any other mob damaging it.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Ravagers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Ravager" or "Illager beast" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A pillager is an illager armed with a crossbow found in wandering patrols , in pillager outposts , or as a participant in raids . It attacks by firing arrows at the player.
In Java Edition , a pillager spawned by a player using a spawn egg or commands can be a captain, which has an ominous banner in their head slot , which displays as attached to the back of their head.
In Java Edition , the number of pillagers spawning in each patrol varies from one to five and depends on the regional difficulty , with one spawning as a patrol captain . Patrols occur after 5 1 ⁄ 2 in-game days, any time and independently of structures, which means they still spawn in worlds without generated structures . A patrol spawns 24 to 48 blocks away from a random player, on the highest solid block. The individual pillagers of a patrol can spawn only at block light level less than 9, regardless of sky light.
In Bedrock Edition , each patrol spawns two to five pillagers with one spawning as a patrol captain. After 5 1 ⁄ 2 in-game days, patrols appear 24 to 48 blocks away from the player , at a light level of 0-7.
Pillagers continually spawn in a 72×54×72 block volume centered on the top floor in a pillager outpost . Some pillagers spawn as outpost captains. They may spawn on any valid opaque block if the block light level is less than or equal to 8.
In Java Edition , there can be unlimited pillagers that spawn in outposts naturally, limited only by the natural spawning rules.
In Bedrock Edition , pillagers continually spawn at or below a particular location in the outpost, choosing the highest opaque block with a non-solid block on top and spawning on the northwest corner. A maximum of eight pillagers spawn naturally in an outpost.
In a raid , pillagers are more common in the earlier waves and decrease in number as the waves progress. Despite this, they still constitute the majority of raiders in total.
One pillager spawns riding a ravager in the fifth wave.
In Bedrock Edition , one of the ravagers is ridden by a pillager instead of a vindicator in the seventh wave.
In Java Edition , pillagers spawn during bonus waves and have the largest chance of being the raid captain in the first wave, but in the second wave and onward, vindicators have a greater chance than pillagers of being the raid captain .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
When a pillager spawns as a raid captain, it always drops their ominous banner on death, while equipped. Armor equipped by dispensers always drop on death. In Java Edition , the armor's durability won't be affected by damage. In Bedrock Edition , the armor's durability is still vulnerable to attacks, as if a player is wearing it.
Pillagers have a 8.5% chance to drop a crossbow when killed by the player or a tamed wolf . The crossbow may be loaded or unloaded depending on the crossbow's state when the pillager dies. The drop chance increases by 1% per level of Looting . The crossbow is of a random durability and has a chance of being enchanted. The chance ranges from 0% to 10% depending on the regional difficulty . The enchantment level is from 5 to 19.
5 XP experience points and an additional 1–3 XP points per naturally-spawned equipment drop when killed by the player or a tamed wolf, if the pillager does not drop their naturally-spawned equipment.
Pillagers move slowly when wandering or loading crossbows in Java Edition . In Bedrock Edition , pillagers move from one place to another as fast as when they're provoked.
In Java Edition , pillagers point their crossbows at any player or mob they are looking at, whether their crossbows are loaded or unloaded. In Bedrock Edition , pillagers only point their crossbows to other mobs when it is loaded.
Pillagers flee from creakings when within a range of 8 blocks.
Pillagers are hostile toward players , iron golems , wandering traders and adult villagers . Illagers do not retaliate at each other. A pillager that accidentally harms another neutral/hostile mob (except goats) causes the mob to retaliate against the pillager.
A pillager attacks by shooting arrows from its crossbow every three seconds from up to eight blocks away and sees enemies for up to 32 blocks in Java Edition or 16 blocks in Bedrock Edition .
In Java Edition , if a pillager gets attacked by a mob (excluding illagers and goats) or player, it alerts other pillagers to target the attacker, regardless of distance, unless the pillager was killed in one hit.
A pillager does not attack the player if summoned with commands in Bedrock Edition using the minecraft:calm spawn event .
When a player is in Creative mode or applied with the Invisibility effect, getting near a pillager still causes it to take notice and stare at the player. If a pillager notices an enemy while staring at the player, the pillager stops staring and attacks the enemy. If a player with the invisibility effect attacks a pillager, the pillager still retaliates.
The patrol captain wears an ominous banner on its head. The other illagers follow the captain around. The pillagers that are part of a patrol do not attack immediately. The patrol members' heads turn to follow the player or mob who attracted their attention. Players or villager-like mobs attacking or approaching within ten blocks of the patrol members provokes them into loading their crossbows and attacking. [1]
If raiding pillagers kill all the villagers in a village or all beds are destroyed, they celebrate their victory by jumping and laughing. Unarmed pillagers also cheer. In Bedrock Edition , pillagers wave their arms while holding their crossbows in their main hand when cheering.
During a raid, pillagers equip ominous banners dropped on the ground within 3 blocks, but non-raider pillagers don't.
11% of pillagers use crossbows on their off-hand .
Pillagers load their crossbows when their target is within a 8 block radius and shoot when the target is within its pursuing radius, which is 64 blocks.
The command /summon pillager ~ ~ ~ {} summons a passive pillager, without a crossbow, that does not attack.
A pillager's crossbow eventually breaks after 465 uses without the Unbreaking enchant, unlike weapons wielded by other mobs. [2] Unarmed pillagers are passive toward all entities, but they still frighten villagers and iron golems are still hostile toward them. This behavior is included to pillagers that have any other item that isn't a crossbow.
A pillager spawned with arrows or firework rockets in its off-hand slot uses them, depleting the stack over time and switching to regular arrows once running out of ammunition. [3] When firing firework rockets, pillagers aim above the target as when using arrows, despite rockets being unaffected by gravity. [4]
Pillagers cannot use their crossbows in their off-hand, as mobs cannot use weapons in their off-hand, just like players.
Pillagers use an outdated behavior. [5] [6] They also have different arm textures. [7] Newly-spawned pillagers hold their crossbow in a lowered position similar to piglins until they start attacking a target, in which they raise their weapon. Pillagers load their crossbows when their target is at its pursuing radius, which is 16 blocks, and only shoot when the target is within a 8 block radius. After loading their crossbows, they begin to chase down the target endlessly, being slower than in Java Edition. Pillagers are not hostile to players before their crossbows are loaded, so sometimes they don't look at players or run around while loading their crossbows.
A dispenser can equip a pillager with armor . However, it isn't rendered on the pillager's model. If a player summons a pillager without a crossbow by spawn event or replaceitem command, it still shoots arrows to attack targets, like other arrow-shooting ranged mobs. This is due to the fact that in the pillager.json and ranged piglin.json files, the component_groups have both minecraft:behavior.ranged_attack and minecraft:behavior.charge_held_item , so if a pillager does not have a crossbow, the charge_held_item behavior cannot trigger and it continuously shoots arrows due to the ranged_attack behavior. This results in the arrows being shot more quickly without a crossbow than with one.
Unlike in Java Edition , the crossbows of pillagers in Bedrock Edition don't break. [8]
Pillagers do melee attacks while underwater, unlike pillagers in Java Edition that maintain using crossbows underwater, where the shot arrows travel slower underwater and sink after a short distance.
Whenever a pillager captain dies, an ominous bottle of a random level from 1 to 5 is always dropped. Drinking the bottle gives the player Bad Omen . The effect lasts for 100 minutes (five in-game days) and can be removed by drinking milk . When a player afflicted with Bad Omen enters a village , the effect converts to Raid Omen . When Raid Omen runs out after 30 seconds, a raid commences in that village, bringing about waves of illagers that seek and try to kill all villagers .
Bad Omen can also be used to start ominous trials .
Each patrol spawns one pillager captain, meanwhile pillager outposts can continually spawn pillager captains.
Raid captains do not drop ominous bottles while participating in a raid .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Pillagers have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Pillager" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A vex is a small flying hostile mob that wields an iron sword and is summoned by evokers . It attacks by lunging at its target with its sword and is capable of phasing through walls.
The vex only spawns as part of an evoker 's summoning attack. While summoning, the evoker is surrounded by white particles and makes a magical, horn-like sound. Then, a group of three vexes appears near the evoker. The evoker can summon additional vexes even if some still remain alive from the last summoning. Blocks obstructing a vex's spawning point will prevent vexes from spawning.
The vex's iron sword does not drop, because its main hand's HandDropChances ‌ [ JE only ] or SlotDropChances ‌ [ BE only ] is 0 . This is not affected by the Looting enchantment.
5 XP is dropped when a vex is killed by a player or tamed wolf .
Vexes attack players , adult villagers , iron golems , wandering traders , and any other target as commanded by their summoning evoker (any mob that attacks the evoker accidentally or purposefully)‌ [ JE only ] or by itself‌ [ BE only ] . They still attack these mobs even when they do not have a weapon, raising both of its hands when attacking; an unarmed vex can be spawned with this command / summon vex ~ ~ ~ {} .‌ [ JE only ] Vexes summoned by a monster spawner , spawn egg , or the / summon command don't attack players unless provoked or already tied with another mob .
If any mob attacks a vex, any vexes in the area become hostile toward it. This includes "Johnny" vindicators that attack them, even though both are allied with the illagers.
Vexes are capable of flying through the air, can freely pass through any block, including water and lava (without taking damage) and bedrock , meaning they can die in the void . Cobwebs cannot slow down vexes, but honey blocks can‌ [ BE only ] . Vexes can be bounced back when pushed by a slime block with help of any piston .
While attacking, vexes glow red and lunge at their target. They often fly toward the back of their targets and attack from behind, making it difficult to block their attacks with a shield .
If a vex is not holding any item in either hand, it still targets players and villagers, but does not damage them.
Vexes do not count toward the bossbar during a raid as they are not considered as raiders by the game.
Vexes summoned by an evoker start taking damage after 30 to 119 seconds and eventually die, even while riding a minecart or boat . Vexes summoned by a monster spawner , spawn egg , or the / summon command do not take damage this way.
In Java Edition , when idle, vexes stay within a 15×11×15 cuboid range centered on their evoker's position when they spawned, unless summoned by a spawn egg or the / summon command. Once a vex targets a player, it will chase the player up to approximately 128 blocks from the evoker, beyond which it will slowly float back to the evoker unless the player comes into range again.
Like allays , vexes are completely emissive with Vibrant Visuals .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Vexes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Vex" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An elder guardian is a large hostile mob and a variant of the guardian . It is the largest and strongest aquatic mob. It attacks the same way as a normal guardian, and it also applies Mining Fatigue to players in a large radius around itself. They are only found in ocean monuments ; three of them generate in each one.
Three elder guardians spawn naturally during the generation of each ocean monument :
They are spawned with the ocean monument and thus they do not respawn.
MCPE-57215 causes the elder guardian not to drop random fish in Bedrock Edition .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Elder guardians do not swim around as much as normal guardians, and they do not swim away when approached by a player they are targeting, unlike regular guardians. Like normal guardians, elder guardians attempt to attack the player, squid , glow squid , and axolotls .
The elder guardian's eye follows and stares at any nearby players and always looks directly at its target. The eye still follows a player under the effects of Invisibility or in Spectator mode, though the elder guardian does not attack.
Elder guardians are considered aquatic mobs, and thus are affected by the Impaling enchantment.‌ [ Java Edition only ] ​ [ until: JE Combat Tests ]
The elder guardian has three methods of attacking, including firing its laser, inflicting Mining Fatigue , and a defensive thorn-like attack.
The elder guardian pathfinds toward an ocean monument if it is not within one.
An elder guardian attacks axolotls that are not playing dead. Otherwise, an elder guardian does not attack mobs that attack it, although the attacking mob takes damage from the elder guardian's natural spikes defense.
The elder guardian, like a normal guardian, does not take suffocation damage when out of the water for a prolonged period of time.
Elder guardians cannot ride boats .
The laser takes 3 seconds to charge, doing no damage and allowing the player to move away in the meantime. As it charges, it changes from purple to bright yellow. Once charged, the beam flashes green, abruptly disappears, and deals 8 HP damage plus another 4 HP magic damage on Normal difficulty. The magic damage is increased by another 2 HP in Hard difficulty after its usual scaling factor of 1.5x, meaning an elder guardian can deal up to 8 HP magic damage on Hard difficulty with a single beam attack. The elder guardian swims around for a few seconds before firing again. The beam cannot be dodged and has a maximum range of approximately 14 blocks. Once the player is out of range, if the beam is obstructed by solid blocks, or if the player has a shield, the guardian's beam disengages from the player and deals no damage.
In Java Edition , once every 60 seconds, an elder guardian afflicts Mining Fatigue III to every player in Survival Mode within a 50 block radius. Players on the same team as the guardian, and players that already have at least 60 seconds of mining fatigue III or higher, are unaffected. In Bedrock Edition , the elder guardian inflicts any unafflicted player within range immediately.
When afflicted, the player sees a ghostly image of the elder guardian and hears a bell-like sound. The effect decreases a player's attack speed by 30% and decreases mining speed even more for 5 minutes. The attack targets players through blocks, even underground, and a potion of Invisibility offers no defense. This is not considered an attack in regards to the Thorns enchantment.
The image of the elder guardian is a particle effect that can be recreated by issuing the command / particle minecraft:elder_guardian .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
An elder guardian deals 2 HP (3 HP on Hard mode) damage every time it is hit while its spikes are extended, similar to the Thorns enchantment on armor. If cornered by a player or axolotl, the elder guardian usually extends its spikes and fires at point-blank range.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Elder guardians have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Elder Guardian" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Guardians are aquatic hostile mobs that spawn in ocean monuments . They attack with a slow-charging laser beam, and inflict retaliatory damage when damaged by a melee attack.
Guardians spawn naturally in ocean monuments . They require water , flowing or stationary, to spawn.
In Java Edition guardians spawn less often in ocean open to the sky than they do in covered areas (such as inside or underneath the monument). Specifically, spawning fails 95% of the time if the spawning water block is below sea level (Y=63 by default), all blocks between the spawning water block and sea level are liquid or fully transparent, and the block at sea level has a view of the sky. They can spawn only if the spawning block and the block below the spawning block are both water. The block above the spawning block also cannot be solid and has to be transparent, air, or water.
In Bedrock Edition , guardians are structure spawns, spawning in water source blocks in 25 pre-determined spawning columns. Guardians usually do not (or possibly never) spawn near a player, and their continued spawning is not affected by removal of the monument, except through the creation of extra space in which to spawn.
For a given column, the spawn will initially be attempted at Y=61, but if this is not a spawnable block, the game will traverse down the column until it finds the first water source block. Once found, if the block below is a valid spawn location, a guardian will spawn there. If it's not a valid spawn location, the column will not spawn a guardian, meaning that columns can be disabled by a block at Y=61 and a block at Y=59 only. If no water source blocks are found by Y=40, the column will not spawn a guardian. Guardians will therefore not spawn inside the monument unless the entire column above is blocked either with solid blocks or air.
To find the X and Z coordinates of the columns, start counting from the northwest corner of the monument. That is, standing on the furthest corner prismarine block with the smallest X and Z coordinates, let's say (X, 41, Z). The coordinates of each spawning spot are in a grid at X+2, X+13, X+29, X+45, and X+55, combined with Z+2, Z+13, Z+29, Z+45, and Z+55. For example, the bottom of the most northwest column is at (X+2, 39, Z+2) and the top block belonging to the southeast corner column is at (X+55, 61, Z+55). The guardians spawn at the northwest corner of a spawning column block, which can be helpful for some guardian farming mechanics such as causing them to spawn inside of a portal where they are immediately sent to the nether.
Due to MCPE-57215 , the guardian won't drop random fish in Bedrock Edition .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Guardians also drop 10 XP when killed by a player or tamed wolf .
Guardians swim around in water , attacking any players , squid , glow squid , or axolotls that come into range of its laser. They swim in abrupt charges, moving their tail rapidly when doing so. When swimming, their spikes retract. When not swimming, they sink slowly and their spikes extend and quiver.
During idle swimming, a guardian chooses a water or waterlogged block within a 9×9×9 area centered on itself as the destination to pathfind toward. If unreachable, they still swim directly toward the target despite any blocks in the way. They attempt to cross air blocks and do not try to prevent fall damage.
Stationary guardians are pushed much faster horizontally by flowing water than other mobs, but when swimming they are completely unimpeded; however, they are affected by bubble columns .
When swimming, guardians have a slight bias toward selecting destination blocks with a higher light level. If undisturbed, guardians can be seen loosely congregating around the sea lantern blocks of their ocean structure.
When out of water, they abandon any previous pathfinding target; they squeak loudly and hop erratically, uninfluenced by nearby water or players. They still use their laser and have their spikes extended. Guardians do not suffocate and survive indefinitely without water unlike other aquatic mobs.
The guardian's eye follows and stares at any nearby players, and always looks directly at its target. In Java Edition , the eye does not follow unarmored players under the effects of a potion of Invisibility and the guardians cannot attack them. A player can wear one piece of armor while under the effects of Invisibility and not be attacked.
Guardians, as aquatic mobs, are affected by the Impaling enchantment.‌ [ JE only ]
Guardians have two methods of attack: a laser and a defensive attack analogous to the Thorns enchantment. Unlike most other hostile mobs, a guardian does not follow a player who moves out of sight. Instead, it simply continues swimming until the player becomes visible again to start charging its laser.
Guardians attack players, axolotls, and squid. Otherwise, a guardian does not retaliate against mobs (such as iron golems) that attack it, other than damaging the attacking mob with its natural thorns defense.
The laser takes 4 seconds to charge, causing no damage in the meantime. It starts out purple and fades to yellow. Once charged, the laser flashes green before disappearing and deals 6 HP damage plus another 2 HP magic damage on Normal difficulty. The magic damage is increased by another 2 HP on Hard difficulty, after adding the usual difficulty scaling factor of 1.5x, meaning a guardian can deal up to 5 HP magic damage through this attack on Hard difficulty. Guardians swim around for 3 seconds before firing again. If the target approaches while the guardian is loading its laser, it stops firing and swims away until it is at a comfortable range, at which point it continues attacking. The laser has a maximum range of 15 blocks and cannot be dodged. However, a shield reduces its damage by 50%.
Once the target is out of range, or if the laser is obstructed by solid blocks (including transparent blocks like glass), the guardian's laser disengages and the shooting sound stops.
A guardian deals damage each time it is hit with a melee attack while its spikes are extended, similar to the Thorns armor enchantment. If cornered, a guardian usually extends its spikes and fires at the player, even at point-blank range.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Guardians have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Guardian" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Silverfish are small hostile arthropods found infesting stone and deepslate blocks in mountain caves and certain structures , such as strongholds , or spawned using potions of Infestation . They attack by biting, and attacking one can cause nearby silverfish to break out of their blocks to attack the aggressor.
Silverfish spawn from broken infested blocks , which generate in strongholds , underground in mountains and windswept hills biomes , in igloo basements, and in woodland mansion false portal rooms. Silverfish do not appear if the block is broken with the Silk Touch enchantment. [1]
Silverfish monster spawners naturally generate in end portal rooms in strongholds . Silverfish can spawn from spawners at light level 11 or lower. In Java Edition , they can also spawn on stone types they can enter (stone, cobblestone, stone bricks, etc.) at any light level, and cannot spawn within a 5 block distance of any player [verify] .
Each trial chambers structure has a 25% chance to select silverfish as the "small melee" mob for its trial spawners .
During ominous trials , each ominous trial spawner has a 1 ⁄ 7 chance to be able to dispense lingering potions of Infestation, which spawns silverfish when an affected entity takes damage. Any type of trial spawner can dispense Infested potions, regardless of the mob type it spawns.
Silverfish have a 10% chance to spawn in groups of 1-2 when an entity with the Infested effect takes damage.
Silverfish have no drops other than 5 XP experience points when killed by a player or tamed wolf .
Silverfish attack players and snow golems ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] and call other silverfish in the area upon being hit. Silverfish pathfind toward the player and can see the player through walls.
When they suffer Poison damage or damage inflicted by the player and survive, they cause other silverfish within a 21×11×21 area to break out of their infested blocks. The player can prevent other silverfish from appearing by killing them in one hit. [2] If the game rule doTileDrops is set to false , the infested blocks are broken, but no silverfish spawn from them.
Silverfish, being arthropods , take extra damage from the Bane of Arthropods enchantment and receive Slowness IV upon being hit.
When idle, silverfish enter a nearby deepslate , stone , cobblestone , stone bricks , mossy stone bricks , cracked stone bricks , or chiseled stone bricks block, transforming it into the respective infested block if the game rule mobGriefing is set to true , as per default. They cannot infest mossy cobblestone , [3] despite being capable of infesting both mossy blocks and cobblestone, and they also cannot infest slab or stairs of these blocks. [4] They are also unable to infest andesite , diorite , granite , and smooth stone . [5]
Silverfish are immune to the infested status effect.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Silverfish have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Idle sounds: Death sound:
Issues relating to "Silverfish" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Endermites are small arthropod hostile mobs that attack by biting. They have a 5% chance to spawn when a player throws an ender pearl . Endermen are hostile toward endermites.
Endermites have a 5% chance to spawn when a player-thrown ender pearl lands. They spawn at the player's original position when the pearl lands‌ [ Java Edition only ] , or at the pearl's landing site‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] .
An endermite despawns within 2 minutes, regardless of the player's distance, unless it has been named with a name tag . This applies even when it is in a minecart , boat , or boat with chest .
Endermites drop 3 XP experience orbs when killed by a player or tamed wolf .
Endermites attack players within 16 blocks .
In Java Edition , endermites become hostile towards any mob that attacks another endermite. Endermites in Bedrock Edition on the other hand do not become hostile towards any mob that attacks it.
Endermen attack endermites in line of sight within 64 blocks. Endermites attack endermen in Bedrock Edition .
As arthropods , endermites are affected by the Bane of Arthropods enchantment.
Like endermen, the eye of an endermite is emissive with Vibrant Visuals .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Endermites have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Endermite" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A bat is a flying passive mob that spawns in dark areas. It is the only ambient mob in the game, intended to complement the game's atmospheric settings. [1]
Bats can spawn in groups of 8‌ [ JE only ] or 2‌ [ BE only ] in the Overworld at a light level of 3 or less at any y-level, on blocks of stone , granite , diorite , andesite , tuff , or deepslate that are not directly exposed to the sky. They also need at least 1.5 air blocks (with for instance, a top trapdoor or top slab in the block above foot level). In Java Edition , they can spawn in any Overworld biome except the deep dark . In Bedrock Edition , there are also other specific biomes they cannot spawn in.​ [ more information needed ]
Bat entities do not count toward the passive mob cap , as they are considered ambient creatures in the entity inheritance , and therefore fall into the dedicated ambient category.
Bats do not drop any items or experience upon death.
Bats often fly around aimlessly, squeaking randomly. Their flight pattern tends to favor the east, and sometimes they may fly into lava and catch on fire . [2]
Bats hang upside down on the underside of a solid block when idle, though they cannot hang on transparent or non-solid blocks. During this state, they squeak far less and occasionally turn to face different directions. They remain in this state until they are disturbed; if a player approaches a bat hanging upside down, even if the player is invisible, it flies away. This also happens if the player breaks the block the bat is hanging from.
Bats despawn when over 32 blocks away from the player.
Bats' collision boxes do not interact with the player or redstone components ‌ [ Java Edition only ] .
Bats cannot be transported by conventional means. A lead cannot be attached to a bat, and it cannot be put in a minecart ‌ [ Java Edition only ] or boat .
Bats can also get caught in and slowed by cobwebs .
Bats cannot breed , and baby bats do not exist.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Bats have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Bat" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A chicken is a passive mob found in most grassy biomes , and the main source of raw chicken , feathers and eggs . They have three variants based on the temperature of the biome they spawn in.
Chickens spawn naturally in the Overworld in most grassy biomes except snowy plains , meadows , cherry groves , mangrove swamps , and pale gardens .
Each chicken has a 5% chance of spawning as a baby .
In Java Edition , chickens spawn in groups of 4 on grass blocks in any light level. Individual chickens rarely may spawn after world generation .
In Bedrock Edition , chickens spawn in groups of 2-4 on grass blocks in a light level of 7 and more. Individuals regularly spawn after world generation.
In Java Edition , chickens are more common in sparse jungles .
In Java Edition , chickens may be found in the Nether when a baby zombified piglin spawns as a chicken jockey . This can also happen with every other baby variant of the zombie . Leader zombies and reinforcements can cause a chicken jockey to spawn in the End.
Chickens have 3 variants: temperate, cold, and warm. The variant is determined by the biome the chicken spawns in.
Chickens have 2 sound variants: Classic and Picky.
A sound variant is chosen randomly upon the mob spawning, and is not related to the mob's temperature variant. These sound variants have no effect on the mob's behavior.
For the sounds of each sound variant, see § Sounds .
All baby zombie variants and baby zombified piglins have a 5% chance to check for an existing chicken within a 10×6×10 box centered on the baby's spawn location and spawn riding one of those chickens if there are any. If it fails that 5% chance, there is an additional 5% chance of the baby zombie spawning mounted on a new adult chicken. If a jockey spawns riding a new chicken, the variant of the chicken depends on the biome it spawns in.
Because a baby zombie occurs from 5% of zombie spawns, the chicken jockey spawns consist of 0.2375% of all zombie spawns in a chicken-free environment; if chickens are present, the chance increases to 0.4875%. A chicken jockey can also be spawned by using the following command:
/ summon minecraft:chicken ~ ~ ~ {IsChickenJockey:1b,Passengers:[{id:"minecraft:zombie",IsBaby:1b}]}
Chicken jockeys may spawn with items equipped. Baby zombified piglin versions of the chicken jockey wield a golden sword or golden spear . Harming or killing the chicken does not cause the zombified piglin to attack.
Baby zombie jockeys do not spawn riding chickens, but check for nearby adult chickens to mount prior to attacking a player, wandering trader , adult villager , snow golem , or iron golem .
Adult chickens that were not part of chicken jockeys lay an egg every five to ten minutes.
1–7 XP experience orbs upon a successful breeding .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
1–3 XP experience orbs are dropped when a chicken is killed by a player or tamed wolf or 10 XP if it was part of a chicken jockey ‌ [ JE only ] .
Killing a chick yields no items or experience .
Killing a zombie riding a chicken will result in the music disc "Lava Chicken" dropping.
A chicken normally wanders aimlessly when idle. Sometimes they remain in a small area, even if it's just a 1 block space. They follow players holding various seeds within a 6×4×6 cubic area. Chicks follow adult chickens.
Chickens avoid falling off cliffs (>3.5 blocks). They flap their wings when they are in midair and fall slowly, thus chickens are immune to fall damage.
Chickens can be attached to leads .
When harmed, chickens flee around for a few seconds.
Unlike other mobs, chickens attempt to jump up to climb stairs instead of climbing them normally. [1]
Ocelots and foxes pursue and attack chickens. While chickens do flee when attacked, they otherwise make no attempt to avoid foxes.
While in a loaded chunk , an adult chicken lays an egg every five to ten minutes (6000–12000 ticks ), unless it is, or was, a part of a chicken jockey . If the player is close enough to a chicken when it lays an egg, a pop sound is heard.
Chickens can stay underwater for 15 seconds or can swim, visibly flapping their wings and staying on the water surface. While swimming, a chicken needs only one block of air above its head.
Chickens follow players holding wheat seeds , beetroot seeds , melon seeds , pumpkin seeds , torchflower seeds , or pitcher pods but stop following when separated from the player by at least 10 blocks‌ [ Java Edition only ] / 16 blocks‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . Additionally, chicks follow adults.
A player can breed chickens by using seeds . After breeding, a chick spawns and 1–7 experience is generated. The parents cannot be bred again for 5 minutes. The variant of the offspring is inherited from one of the parents and does not depend on the biome they are bred in.
Chicks take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using seeds. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up. A chick fed a seed once per second grows up in approximately 48 seconds using 47 seeds.
Chicks are smaller than a half-block and can unwillingly pass through openings smaller than a full block, but do not walk through half-block-tall spaces. A chick riding a minecart cannot be hit because it is completely inside the minecart's hitbox .
Chickens are the only Overworld mob that can repopulate without breeding. Adult chickens lay eggs every 5-10 minutes and an egg thrown at the ground by a player or a dispenser has a 1 ⁄ 8 chance of spawning a chick. If a chick spawns from a thrown egg, there is a further 1 ⁄ 32 chance to spawn three extra chicks, or 1 ⁄ 256 overall. It is theoretically possible for a stack of 16 eggs to yield 64 chickens if all spawn chances succeed for all eggs.
Different variants of chickens lay different types of eggs:
If the player throws an egg at a glass pane , the chick can spawn on the far side of the pane.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Java Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Chickens have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Chicken variants can be configured using JSON files within a data pack in the path data/<namespace>/chicken_variant .
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Chicken" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A cow is a passive mob found in most grassy biomes and are a source of leather , beef , and milk . They have three variants based on the temperature of the biome they spawn in.
Cows spawn naturally in the Overworld in most grassy biomes except for snowy plains , meadows , cherry groves , mangrove swamps , and pale gardens . They spawn in small herds, with a set spawn rate for each biome.
Cows also require a well-lit grass block to spawn on and at least two blocks of space above it.
In Java Edition , herds of four cows spawn on grass blocks. Individual cows rarely may spawn after world generation.
In Bedrock Edition , herds of 2–3 cows spawn on grass blocks. Individuals regularly spawn on grass after world generation.
Cows sometimes spawn inside animal pens, stables, and butcher house backyards in villages upon world generation.
Using shears on a mooshroom converts it into a cow.
Cows have 3 variants; temperate, cold, and warm. The variant is determined by the biome the cow spawns in.
If a cow is spawned via spawn egg or command in any biome not listed, it spawns as a temperate cow.
Cows have 2 sound variants: Classic and Moody.
A sound variant is chosen randomly upon the mob spawning, and is not related to the mob's temperature variant. These sound variants have no effect on the mob's behavior.
For the sounds of each sound variant, see § Sounds .
1–7 XP experience orbs upon a successful breeding.
An adult cow drops:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Killing a baby cow yields no items nor experience .
An adult cow can be milked by using a bucket on it, yielding a milk bucket .
A cow moos and huffs occasionally while wandering aimlessly, but tends to stay in well lit and grassy places. They avoid water unless following a player and always avoid rails and falls that cause damage . If harmed, the cow flees for a few seconds.
Cows follow players holding wheat within a six block radius.
Cows follow players holding wheat but stop following when separated from the player by at least 10‌ [ Java Edition only ] or 16‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] blocks. Additionally, baby cows follow adults.
A player can breed cows by using wheat . After breeding, a baby cow spawns and 1–7 experience is generated. The parents cannot be bred again for 5 minutes. The variant of the offspring is inherited from one of the parents and does not depend on the biome they are bred in.
Baby cows take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up, but the growth time can be accelerated using wheat. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up. It moves to another adult cow if it is separated from its parent by more than 24 blocks. Baby cows prefer to follow adult cows instead of players holding wheat.
If a baby cow is fed a golden dandelion , its growth freezes and resets to 24000 ticks (20 minutes). Feeding the baby cow another one resumes the growth.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride a cow to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cows have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Cow" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A mooshroom is a mushroom-covered variant of the cow exclusive to the rare mushroom fields biome. Mooshrooms are a great source of mushroom stew and leather .
Red mooshrooms can spawn in mushroom fields biomes in herds of 4–8 on mycelium blocks. They do not naturally spawn in any other biome.
Red mooshrooms have a 5% chance of spawning as babies.
A red mooshroom transforms into a brown mooshroom, and vice versa, when it is struck by lightning . Brown mooshrooms never spawn naturally.
A pair of mooshrooms can breed when being given wheat . A mooshroom cannot be bred with a cow.
Breeding two red mooshrooms has a 1 ⁄ 1024 chance to spawn a brown baby variant and vice versa. When breeding a red mooshroom and a brown mooshroom together, the baby has a 1 ⁄ 2 chance of being either variant.
Feeding wheat to a baby mooshroom shortens its growing time by 10% of the remaining time. Baby mooshrooms do not have mushrooms on their backs; they appear once the baby grows to an adult.
1–7 XP upon successful breeding
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Shearing a mooshroom drops 5 corresponding mushrooms and turns the mooshroom into a temperate cow , emitting a smaller version of the explosion particle. The mushrooms do not grow back.
Like other baby animals, killing a baby mooshroom yields no items or experience.
Mooshrooms have the same AI behavior as cows: they walk around slowly and aimlessly, huffing and mooing occasionally. They avoid danger such as cliffs, fire, or lava, but make no attempt to stay out of water.
A mooshroom follows a player holding wheat .
A lightning strike within 4 blocks of a mooshroom switches its color, from red to brown and vice versa. Mooshrooms do not take damage from lightning during this transformation.
A mooshroom can be milked by using a bucket on it, yielding a milk bucket . Mooshrooms can also be milked using bowls to get mushroom stew .
When a small flower is fed to a brown mooshroom, the brown mooshroom produces a suspicious stew related to that small flower the next time it is milked with a bowl . Red mooshrooms do not produce suspicious stew. The brown mooshroom returns to producing mushroom stew until fed another small flower. The small flowers produce the suspicious stew with the following effects.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult mooshroom to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Mooshrooms have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Mooshroom" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A pig is a passive mob found commonly in most grassy biomes . Adult pigs are a source of porkchops and can be ridden using a saddle and a carrot on a stick . They have three variants based on the temperature of the biome they spawn in.
Pigs spawn in the Overworld in most grassy biomes except for snowy plains , meadows , mangrove swamps , and pale gardens .
In Java Edition , pigs spawn in groups of 4 on grass blocks . Individual pigs rarely may spawn on grass after world generation.
In Bedrock Edition , pigs spawn in groups of 1 to 3 on grass blocks. Individuals regularly spawn on grass after world generation.
Each pig has a 5% chance of spawning as a baby.
Pigs sometimes also spawn in animal pens, stables, and butcher house backyards in villages upon world generation.
Pigs cannot spawn naturally with a saddle.
Pigs have 3 variants: temperate, cold, and warm. This variant is determined by the biome the pig spawns in and does not impact their behavior.
If a pig spawn egg is used in any biome not listed, a temperate pig is spawned.
Pigs have 3 sound variants: Big, Classic, and Mini.
A sound variant is chosen randomly upon the mob spawning, and is not related to the mob's temperature variant. These sound variants have no effect on the mob's behavior.
For the sounds of each sound variant, see § Sounds .
An adult pig drops:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Killing a baby pig yields neither items nor experience .
Pigs roam the Overworld avoiding hazards and harmful falls. A pig flees for a short time when harmed.
Pigs follow players holding carrots , potatoes , beetroots or carrots on sticks within a radius of six blocks.
Pigs can be bred using carrots , potatoes or beetroots . After breeding, the parents have a cooldown of 5 minutes before they can breed again. Baby pigs mature in 20 minutes and stay near their parents. Feeding them reduces the remaining time to maturity by 10%. Feeding baby pigs a golden dandelion will freeze their growth. If they are fed again it will take them 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up.
When two different variants of pigs are bred together, the variant of the baby is randomly selected from one of the parents' variants.
It is possible to ride an adult pig by using a saddle on it. Shears can be used on a saddled pig to retrieve the saddle. Baby pigs cannot be saddled nor ridden.
Saddled pigs are controllable with a carrot on a stick . They travel at a default speed of 2.42 blocks/s.
Using the carrot on a stick causes the pig to enter a boost, at the cost of 7 durability. While boosted, the pig gradually accelerates to its peak speed of 5.2 blocks/s (6.24 blocks/s with Speed I and 7.28 blocks/s with Speed II) until halfway through the boost, and then decelerates to its default speed by the end of the boost. Specifically, the speed of the pig increases by 1 + 1.15 × sin ⁡ ( t t 0 π ) times the original speed, where t is the time already passed since the start of the boost, and t 0 is the total duration of the boost. No matter how many ticks the boost lasts, the average speed of pig during a full boost cycle is roughly 4.19 m/s.
Unlike other Overworld mounts, [1] pigs cannot float on water or lava (even if they have Fire Resistance ) when being controlled. Pigs can be controlled through 1-block-high bodies of water with a carrot and stick, but deeper water causes the player to dismount. If the pig and rider fall, then fall damage doesn't cause any knockback or slower movement speed.
A player can travel through a space 1 block high by riding a pig.
When a pig or baby pig is struck by lightning , it transforms into a zombified piglin or baby zombified piglin, respectively. If lightning strikes a pig in Peaceful difficulty, the pig does not transform but takes normal damage from the strike. If the pig was equipped with a saddle, the saddle is lost. If a player was riding the pig, they are kept mounted on the zombified piglin in Java Edition , [2] while in Bedrock Edition they are dismounted. [3]
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride an adult unsaddled pig to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Pigs have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Pig" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sheep is a common passive mob that supplies wool and raw mutton and is found in many of the grassy biomes .
The sheep color is determined by the type of biome the sheep spawns in.
If a monster spawner is set to spawn sheep, the sheep model spinning inside appears with one of the six naturally spawning colors . Independently from the displayed color, all six variants are able to spawn and the usual chances apply. To guarantee that sheep always spawn with the desired color, additional NBT tags can be applied to the monster spawner, utilizing the Color tag.
In Java Edition , 4 sheep may spawn above grass blocks at a light level of 9 and higher, even in snowy taigas, but not in pale gardens.
In Bedrock Edition , 2 to 3 sheep spawn during the world generation on grass blocks at the surface with at least a 2 block space above at a light level of 7 and higher, except in pale gardens , snowy plains , ice spikes , or wooded badlands . They later spawn individually on grassy biomes.
Two sheep sometimes spawn in shepherd houses, butcher houses, and animal pens in villages .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
1–3 XP experience orbs if killed by a player or tamed wolf .
Killing a baby sheep yields no items nor experience .
When sheared , sheep give 1–3 wool and do not take any damage. This is not affected by Fortune or Looting .
Upon successful breeding , 1–7 XP is dropped.
Sheep wander aimlessly and individually or in small flocks of two to four. Sheep avoid cliffs and hazardous areas if it warrants damage . Sheep emit hoarse bleats in mostly random patterns and especially when attacked. If harmed, sheep flee for a few seconds, but make no special attempt to avoid wolves .
Sheep do not usually interact with players or other mobs, but follow a player holding wheat within a six blocks radius. Adult sheep cannot fit through a gap of the 90-degree intersection of two fences when the corner fence is removed, whereas the player and most other mobs can fit through easily (although mobs won't path-find through this gap).
Sheep graze short grass , short dry grass , tall dry grass , and ferns (but not tall grass or large ferns ), making them disappear, and grass blocks , changing them into dirt blocks. Baby sheep graze grass much more often than adults and mature 1 minute faster when grazing. Sheep can eat grass through blocks that are lower than a full block , including extremities such as honey blocks , as well as from inside minecarts . A sheared sheep only regrows its wool after grazing. Therefore, if no grass is available, a sheep cannot regrow its wool after being sheared. If an adult sheep has the opportunity, the chance of eating grass is 1 ⁄ 500 every other game tick ( 1 ⁄ 25 for baby sheep). If / gamerule mobGriefing is set to false , grass blocks remain, but the sheep still regrow their wool. [1]
A sheep's wool can be dyed by pressing the use key or the interact button while holding any dye . A sheared sheep cannot be dyed until its wool grows back after eating a grass block. Dyeing changes the color of the sheep's wool until the sheep is dyed again. The new wool colors are inherited by baby sheep.
If a sheep is dyed and then sheared, it retains its new dyed wool color after the wool regrows.
Sheep can be bred using wheat , after which they spawn a baby sheep. They cannot breed for five minutes after the baby sheep appears.
The 20-minute growth of a baby sheep can be slightly accelerated using wheat. Each use takes 10% off the remaining time to grow up. A baby sheep can also accelerate its own growth by eating grass.
If the parents have compatible wool colors (meaning that the corresponding dye items could be combined into a third dye color), the resulting baby sheep inherits a mix of their colors (e.g., blue sheep + white sheep = light blue baby sheep). If the dye colors cannot normally be mixed, the baby sheep spawns with the same color as one of the parents, chosen randomly, regardless of whether one or both parents have been sheared. Resulting colors from every possible pair of sheep can be seen in the table below.
An evoker can change a sheep's wool color if the evoker isn't engaged in combat and / gamerule mobGriefing is set to true . If that condition is met, it can change the wool color of any blue sheep within 16 blocks to red. It signals the spell by producing orange color particles ( ) and making a "wololo" sound. This is a reference to the priest unit of the 1997 game Age of Empires . This will still work if they are named jeb_ .
If a sheep is named jeb_ , its wool cycles through all dye colors in order . This is purely a visual effect. A sheep named jeb_ can still be dyed without changing the rainbow effect, and any wool obtained from one of these sheep has the most recent color as if the sheep was not named. The name tag jeb_ is an easter egg toward one of the developers Jens Bergensten or “Jeb” as he is called online.
15% of nearby baby zombies , husks , or drowned may ride a sheep to form a jockey .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Sheep have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
In Java Edition , non-white sheep colors are 25% darker as the respective dye color values ; white is separately defined as #E6E6E6 . Non-white sheep colors are applied to the sheep_wool.png and sheep_wool_undercoat.png textures, while white is applied exclusively to the sheep_wool.png texture (the wool undercoat texture is not rendered for white sheep).
In Bedrock Edition , sheep colors use the same values as the base dye colors. The wool textures of white sheep are not tinted.
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Sheep now display their colors and can be dyed.
If a sheep is dyed a color other than white, the wool color on its face also changes to match the rest of its body.
The color of a sheep was determined by the values in the table below. One in every 500 white sheep (0.2%) was instead pink, making pink the rarest of the six naturally spawning colors. 5% of all sheep (regardless of color) spawned as baby sheep.
Issues relating to "Sheep" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A squid is a common aquatic passive mob that spawns in rivers and oceans , and are the main sources of ink sacs, which they drop upon death.
In Java Edition , 2 to 4 squid can spawn in water or waterlogged block from Y-level 50 to 63 (inclusive), as long as the biome is a river or ocean variant. The block above must also be water, and the block below must be water or waterlogged. [ s 1 ] Squid share the water creature mob cap with dolphins and nautiluses .
In Bedrock Edition , 2 to 4 squid can spawn in ocean biomes, and two can spawn in river biomes. In addition, squid spawn only on the surface, i.e. there must not be a solid or spawnable block above the spawn location.
Squid have a 5% chance of spawning as babies.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Squid are passive toward the player. They are not attracted to light and do not deliberately interact with the player. Squid sometimes beach themselves and suffocate on the banks of rivers and occasionally on ocean beaches. These behaviors are shared with the glow squid.
Squid wander around aimlessly in three dimensions as long as they are in the water, opening and closing their tentacles, which gives them the appearance of pushing themselves leisurely forward.
A squid's hitbox does not include its tentacles, and therefore they cannot be damaged by attacking its tentacles.
Squid suffocate when out of water, dying after 15 seconds (300 game ticks ). While on land, they remain stationary until they suffocate. [1] They can take fall damage and burn like any other land mob, but they cannot drown. When out of the water, squid are extremely resistant to knockback .
Squid cannot swim in lava, even if inflicted with Fire Resistance . They simply pass through the lava and behave as if on land.
In Bedrock Edition , squid can survive on land with Water Breathing . However, they still cannot move.
Unlike land-based mobs, squid can swim against a current and not get pushed by it.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Guardians and elder guardians attack squid in the same manner as they would a player, even if the squid is affected by Invisibility . Axolotls also attack squid.
Squid are affected by the Impaling enchantment — In Java Edition because they are aquatic mobs; In Bedrock Edition as long as they touch water.
Squid produce a cloud of black ink particles and swim away when attacked. They also produce unique dark blue bubble particles when hit. The ink remains visible when the squid has the Invisibility status effect.
If the player is in Spectator mode or is far away from a squid (often when it is in an unloaded chunk ), it remains stationary. When attacked in this state, squid cannot flee. [2]
Like land-based mobs, squid can be picked up by a minecart .
Unlike most 'animal' mobs, squid cannot breed . Baby squid can only be found when they naturally spawn. A baby squid eventually turns into an adult after 24000 ticks (20 minutes), and their growth cannot be sped up. Feeding a baby squid a golden dandelion will freeze their growth. Using it again they will then take 24000 ticks (20 minutes) to grow up.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Squid have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition:
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Squid" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A glow squid is a squid variant that spawns in dark underwater areas, typically in ocean depths, canyons , and underground lakes . It has an aqua luminescent texture, and is the only source of glow ink sacs .
In Java Edition , schools of 4 to 6 glow squid spawn in water (source block or flowing) in complete darkness in the Overworld below layer 30, except for deep dark and sulfur cave biomes. Unlike most other aquatic mobs, they do not require water or waterlogged blocks above or below their spawning space. In all spawnable biomes, the spawn weight is 10 ⁄ 10 and the spawn chance is 100%.
In Bedrock Edition , glow squid spawn anywhere when there's water underground, in schools of 2 to 4 (below a solid roof categorized as cave spawn, while squid are surface spawns) anywhere except deep dark biomes, from Y=-64 to Y=30, in a light level of 0. The spawn weight is 10 in all spawnable biomes except mangrove swamp , in which the spawn weight is 100.
Glow squid have a 5% chance of spawning as babies.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Glow squid are passive toward the player. They are not attracted to light and do not deliberately interact with the player. Glow squid sometimes beach themselves [1] and suffocate on the banks of rivers and occasionally on ocean beaches. These behaviors are shared with the traditional squid.
Glow squid wander around aimlessly in three dimensions as long as they are in the water, opening and closing their tentacles, which gives them the appearance of pushing themselves leisurely forward.
A glow squid's hitbox does not include its tentacles, and therefore cannot be damaged by attacking its tentacles.
Glow squid suffocate when out of water, dying after 15 seconds (300 game ticks ). While on land, they remain stationary until they suffocate. [2] They can take fall damage and burn like any other land mob, but they cannot drown. When out of the water, glow squid are extremely resistant to knockback .
Glow squid appear to glow, but do not produce block lighting. They stop glowing for 5 seconds (100 game ticks ) when harmed. They are emissive with Vibrant Visuals , and the light pixels glow especially strongly.
Glow squid cannot swim in lava, even if inflicted with Fire Resistance . They simply pass through the lava and behave as if on land.
In Bedrock Edition , a glow squid can survive on land with Water Breathing . However, they still cannot move.
Unlike land-based mobs, glow squid can swim against a current and not get pushed by it.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Guardians and elder guardians attack glow squid in the same manner as they would a player, even if the glow squid is affected by Invisibility . Axolotls also attack glow squid.
Glow squid are affected by the Impaling enchantment — in Java Edition because they are aquatic mobs ; in Bedrock Edition as long as they touch water.
Glow squid constantly produce crystalline particles around them. When attacked, they emit a cloud of turquoise ink particles and swim away. The particles and the ink remain visible when the glow squid has the Invisibility status effect.
If the player is in Spectator mode or is far away from glow squid (often when they are in unloaded chunks ), they remain stationary. When attacked in this state, the squid cannot flee. [3]
Like a land-based mob, a glow squid can be picked up by a minecart .
Unlike most “animal” mobs, glow squid cannot breed . Baby glow squid can be found only when they naturally spawn. A baby glow squid eventually turns into an adult after 24000 ticks (20 minutes), and their growth cannot be sped up.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Glow squid have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Glow Squid" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Cod are common bucketable aquatic passive mobs found in oceans that are a source of raw cod and, occasionally, bones ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or bone meal .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Cod spawn underwater in normal, cold, and lukewarm oceans, and their deep variants, in groups of 3-6, subject to fish spawning requirements .
Cod spawn underwater 12–32 blocks away from the player in normal, cold, frozen, lukewarm oceans, and their deep variants, in groups of 4–7. In addition, cod spawn only on the surface; that is, there must not be a spawnable block above the spawn location with a non-solid block on top.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cod tend to swim in schools with a maximum of 9 cod per school.
The player may collect a cod by using a water bucket on it, which gives the player a bucket of cod . Cod placed with buckets do not despawn naturally. When that fish bucket is used on a block, it empties the bucket, placing water with the cod swimming in it.
Cod can not be bred, but only spawn in designated biomes.
A cod cannot survive outside of water. Outside of water, they flip around on their sides like guardians for a while trying to get back into the water until, after 10 seconds of time, they start taking suffocation damage and die. In Bedrock Edition , fish out of water rotate while flipping. They cannot swim or breathe in cauldron water. [1] They can swim in, but cannot survive in waterlogged blocks, most noticeably waterlogged slabs and stairs.
In Java Edition , cod are vulnerable to weapons that have the Impaling enchantment, which also affects other fish and aquatic mobs except drowned.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Cod have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Cod" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Salmon are common bucketable aquatic passive mobs found in oceans and rivers that are a source of raw salmon and, occasionally, bones ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or bone meal .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Salmon spawn in small, normal, and large sizes. 31.6% spawn as small, 52.6% spawn as normal, and 15.8% spawn as large.
Salmon spawn in groups of 1–5 in cold or frozen oceans, as well as their deep variants, subject to fish spawning requirements . They also spawn in rivers and frozen rivers.
Salmon spawn underwater at 12–32 blocks away from the player. They spawn in groups of 3–5 in lukewarm, cold, normal, frozen oceans, their deep variants, and rivers (including frozen rivers). In addition, salmon spawn on the surface (that is, there must not be a spawnable block above the spawn location with a non-solid block on top).
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Salmon tend to swim in schools with a maximum of 7 salmon per school.
They can swim up approximately 4–5 blocks in waterfalls, emulating the behavior of real-world salmon that leap into and over small waterfalls to reach their spawning ground.
The player may collect salmon by using a water bucket on it, which gives the player a bucket of salmon . Salmon placed with buckets do not despawn naturally. When the bucket of salmon is used against a block, it empties the bucket, placing water with the salmon swimming in it.
Salmon cannot be bred; they spawn naturally.
Some salmon may randomly leave their school swimming away and they may despawn.
Salmon cannot survive out of water. Outside of water, they flop around for a while until they die from suffocation. Salmon flip around on their sides. In Bedrock Edition , they rotate when flipping. Salmon also cannot swim or breathe in cauldron water. [1]
In Java Edition , salmon have a weakness to weapons that have the Impaling enchantment, which also affects other fish and water mobs except drowned .
Axolotls always attack salmon on sight.
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Salmon have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Salmon" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Tropical fish are common bucketable aquatic passive mobs found in warm or lukewarm oceans , mangrove swamps and lush caves . There are 2,700 naturally occurring variants of tropical fish of different colors and shapes with unique names in Bedrock Edition and 3,072 in Java Edition . [1]
In Java Edition , random varieties of tropical fish spawn in groups of 8 in lukewarm or warm oceans (as well as their deep variants) and mangrove swamps at Y-level 50 to 63, and in lush caves in aquifers at any Y-level. They are subject to fish spawning requirements .
In Bedrock Edition , tropical fish spawn underwater at 12-32 blocks away from the player. Tropical fish spawn only in warm , lukewarm , deep lukewarm ocean biomes; lush caves , in groups of 3-5 for the same preset pattern, and in groups of 1-3 for a random pattern; and mangrove swamps. In addition, tropical fish in warm, lukewarm, and deep ocean variants can spawn only at Y levels between 50 and 64 and must be on the surface (i.e., there must not be a spawnable block above the spawn location with a non-solid block on top). Tropical fish in lush caves can spawn on aquifers at any Y levels but require underground.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Tropical fish tend to swim in schools of fish with a maximum of 7 tropical fish per school. Tropical fish are also able to go against the water flow.
The player may collect a tropical fish by using a water bucket on it, which gives the player a bucket of tropical fish . Using that fish bucket against a block empties the bucket, placing water with that fish swimming in it. Tropical fish placed via buckets do not despawn naturally.
Tropical fish cannot be bred, but only spawn in designated biomes.
Tropical fish cannot survive out of water. Outside of water, they flop around for a while until eventually they suffocate and die. In Bedrock Edition , they rotate when flipping. Fish cannot swim or breathe in cauldron water. [2]
Fish have a weakness to weapons that have the Impaling enchantment, which also affects aquatic mobs except drowned .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
When tropical fish spawn in the wild, 90% of the time they appear as schools of one of the 22 varieties in the first image, and the other 10% of the time their patterns, shape, and colors are completely random, drawn from any of 2 shapes, 6 patterns, 16 base colors, and 16 pattern colors. The color black is not supposed to appear on any naturally-spawned tropical fish, since the eyes are usually hard to see [3] , but due to a bug [1] black can be chosen randomly. This results in 3,072 naturally-occurring combinations, instead of the intended 2,880.
Tropical fish can be summoned with black as one or both of their colors, and/or without any visible pattern,​ [ more information needed ] though even without the pattern they can still have a pattern color, causing a further 884 possible combinations, 480 of which look the same due to the missing pattern.
Tropical fish do not have common varieties in Bedrock Edition . Instead, naturally spawned tropical fish have 2 spawn attempts: the first chooses one of the 22 preset variants, and the other uses randomly chosen patterns, sizes, shapes, and colors (except black). Tropical fish spawned from a spawn egg use randomly chosen patterns, sizes, shapes, and colors (except black). Using commands, tropical fish may be spawned as one of the 22 preset variants. Due to MCPE-117477 , yellowtail parrot fish do not spawn, therefore only 21 preset variants exist on Bedrock Edition. The specific command used is / summon tropicalfish ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ minecraft:fish_name .
Tropical fish variants in buckets have names that are assigned based on their colors and type. In Bedrock Edition , the names are in the name of the bucket, giving names like "Bucket of Dottyback", "Bucket of Sky-Orange Snooper", or "Bucket of Orange-Lime Dasher". In Java Edition , the type, and colors are displayed as additional lines in the item tooltip.
In Bedrock Edition , the following colors are renamed from their defaults when they refer to tropical fish. Parentheses indicate default name and color id - see § Entity data .
The base color is first, and the pattern color is next if it is different.
The fish type is determined according to the shape and pattern of the fish:
Some varieties of tropical fish don't follow the normal naming system; instead, they reference real-life fish species. In Java Edition , these unique fish are limited to the 22 common varieties. In Bedrock Edition , there are also 22 uniquely-named tropical fish, though they are not all the same as in Java Edition . These uniquely-named tropical fish aren't different from regular tropical fish in terms of design or behavior.
These varieties are:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Tropical fish have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
The fish sizes and patterns are depicted in the following table, with white body color and dark-gray pattern color.
The 22 varieties of tropical fish most commonly found throughout the world have Variant tag values from the following table, which also lists what color/shape/patterns come from that value.
The variant number is the sum of the most significant byte × 2 24 + second most significant byte × 2 16 + second least significant byte × 2 8 + least significant byte.
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Tropical fish" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Pufferfish are bucketable aquatic neutral mobs found in oceans . Although they never seek out mobs to attack, they defensively inflate themselves when approached too closely by players , axolotls , or non-aquatic mobs, dealing damage and inflicting Poison on them.
In Java Edition , pufferfish spawn in groups of 1-3 in warm, lukewarm, and deep lukewarm ocean biomes, subject to fish spawning requirements . If trying to spawn inside a waterlogged solid block, the pufferfish uses the bigger "puffed" size to determine if it collides with anything solid.
In Bedrock Edition , pufferfish spawn underwater at around 12–32 blocks away from the player in groups of 3–5 in warm ocean biomes, and only on the surface; that is, there must not be a spawnable block above the spawn location with a non-solid block on top. They are considerably rarer than tropical fish, with only 1 ⁄ 5 of fish groups or 2 ⁄ 9 individual fish (within the warm ocean biome) spawning as pufferfish.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Unlike other fish , pufferfish don't swim in schools.
Pufferfish inflate themselves when approached by the player and most mobs, including tripod cameras ‌ [ BE & edu only ] and armor stands . [1] [2]
The player may collect a fish by using a water bucket on it, giving the player a bucket of pufferfish . Fish placed with buckets do not despawn naturally. Using the bucket against a block empties the bucket, placing water with that fish swimming in it.
Pufferfish can not be bred and only spawn in designated biomes.
Like other fish, pufferfish cannot survive out of water. Outside of water, they flop around like guardians for a while until they start suffocating and then die like squid . In Bedrock Edition , they rotate when flopping. Fish cannot swim or breathe in cauldron water. [3]
The Impaling enchantment affects pufferfish due to being aquatic‌ [ Java Edition only ] or simply being in water‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] .
Pufferfish are actively targeted by axolotls , nautiluses and zombie nautiluses .
A pufferfish inflates when approached by a player in Survival or Adventure mode, a drowned , an axolotl , or any non-water mob within 2 blocks of its hitbox, going from unpuffed, then semi-puffed, to fully puffed. Going near a semi-puffed or fully puffed pufferfish inflicts the player/mob with three or six seconds of Poison based on the inflation level, and touching one in its puffed or semi-puffed form deals damage separate from the Poison.
Pufferfish also instantly inflate to their fullest form after taking any kind of damage.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] After inflating, they slowly deflate to their normal shape as long as a threat is out of range. If the player/mob leaves the radius while the pufferfish is in its semi-puffed stage, it deflates back to normal.
Undead mobs are unaffected by the Poison effect, but they still take damage when they come into contact with pufferfish.
A pufferfish that inflicts damage on a mob other than a creeper or a ghast by touching it provokes that mob to retaliate.
In Peaceful difficulty, pufferfish do not inflict damage or Poison to player.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Pufferfish can deal damage to players at a longer distance compared to mobs. [4]
If a pufferfish dies while in its semi-puffed or fully puffed form, it will still inflict damage and Poison to players, but not other entities. [5]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Pufferfish have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
A pufferfish's damage and Poison time are directly related to its current PuffState data value, which can be changed using the / data command.
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Pufferfish" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A strider is a passive mob found in the Nether . It can walk on lava and be saddled by the player , being directed via a warped fungus on a stick . They can be fed warped fungus to breed, and act as a source of string .
Striders can spawn in every Nether biome. Groups of 2 to 4 striders spawn on spaces of lava that have an air block above. In Java Edition , striders are the only passive mob in the Nether, so spawning attempts are made every 400 game ticks . In Bedrock Edition , striders share the animal population cap with hoglins , and their spawn rate depends on the biome, being impacted by the ability of other mobs to spawn at a given coordinate.
For every strider that spawns, there is a 1 in 10 chance for an additional baby strider to spawn riding on top of the previous strider. This behavior is limited to one strider. [1] A baby strider on the adult strider continues to grow, although it does not dismount the adult strider once it has grown up.
In Java Edition [2] , adult striders also have a 1 in 30 chance of spawning being ridden by a zombified piglin , forming a strider jockey . When this happens, the strider spawns with a saddle and the zombified piglin spawns wielding a warped fungus on a stick instead of a golden sword or spear . The zombified piglin does not despawn naturally and does not count toward the mob cap. On Peaceful difficulty, the zombified piglin despawns immediately, leaving a saddled strider. [3]
If a strider spawns under lava , it rises out of the lava . In Bedrock Edition , baby striders spawn more commonly than adult striders do, including when spawned by a spawn egg.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Striders wearing a saddle always drop the saddle upon death, regardless of if they spawn wearing it or if a player puts it on them. The saddle can be removed by using shears on the strider. When an adult strider is killed by a player or tamed wolf , 1–3 XP experience is dropped. Killing a baby strider yields no items or experience.
Lava does not damage striders, and they can walk on top of it without sinking.
Upon being harmed by another mob, striders attempt to flee for a few seconds while making "retreat" noises.
Striders are damaged by water , rain , and splash water bottles , which deal damage by 1 HP per splash water bottle or half-second in water or rain. While in water, they slowly sink while taking damage. Striders still take damage from rain even if they are in lava. However, they are not harmed when standing in a filled cauldron as a baby. They also cannot be harmed by snowfall or snowballs . They take extra damage from freezing in powder snow .
Unlike piglins and hoglins , striders can exist safely in the Overworld , as long as they are kept away from water and rain. Striders outside of lava change to a dull purple color, change their expression to more of a frown, shiver, and their legs become slightly shorter. They also move slower when outside of lava. [4]
If a strider has the Speed effect applied to it, it moves faster on both land and lava (though its land speed is still considerably slower). If a zombified piglin is riding a strider, the strider pursues the player if the zombified piglin is angered.
Due to a bug, [5] striders that fall from a height take fall damage when landing in lava.‌ [ JE only ]
A baby strider on an adult strider still grows into an adult. Apart from this, adult striders riding other adult striders do not spawn naturally. Baby striders not riding on an adult follow the closest adult strider.
The player can ride on an adult strider using a saddle .
Similar to how pigs are controlled using a carrot on a stick , striders move forward automatically while their direction is influenced using a warped fungus on a stick , at a speed of 4.24 m/s‌ [ JE only ] / 3.71 m/s‌ [ BE only ] if on a flat lava surface (such as the Nether lava sea ) or 1.78 m/s‌ [ JE only ] / 1.64 m/s‌ [ BE only ] if on land. They walk especially slowly against the lava flow direction.
When a warped fungus on a stick is used , the strider enters a boost for a random duration between 140 to 980 game ticks (7 to 49 seconds)‌ [ JE only ] / 320 game ticks (16 seconds)‌ [ BE only ] . Each boost takes 1 point of durability from the warped fungus on a stick. If the durability of the warped fungus on a stick reaches 0, it turns into a fishing rod.
While boosted, the strider gradually accelerates to its peak speed of 9.12 m/s ‌ [ JE only ] / 7.98 m/s‌ [ BE only ] until halfway through the boost, and then decelerates to its default speed by the end of the boost. Specifically, the speed of the strider increases by 1 + 1.15 × sin ⁡ ( t t 0 π ) times the original speed, where t is the time already passed since the start of the boost, and t 0 is the total duration of the boost. No matter how many ticks the boost lasts, the average speed of the strider during a full boost cycle is roughly 7.34 m/s ‌ [ JE only ] / 6.42 m/s‌ [ BE only ] .
Striders also follow players holding a warped fungus or a warped fungus on a stick.
Unlike underwater boats , players riding striders are not dismounted if the strider submerges in lava, and striders rise back up to the surface if this happens. However, players risk getting burned by the lava while submerged. In Bedrock Edition , players can start riding a strider that is fully submerged in lava.
A strider ridden into flowing lava slowly rises to the top. Fall damage does not affect striders that have dropped onto flowing lava, unlike the bug [5] for lava source blocks. When ridden over land, striders automatically walk up any one block high slope. They also cross any 1-wide block gap or air space that is only one block higher - diagonally up - when ridden directly upward and not completely sideways to the slope.
To safely dismount from a strider, a player who does not have Fire Resistance may face a solid block within reach before dismounting to dismount onto that block, [6] instead of at the strider's location (which is usually in lava [7] ).‌ [ JE only ] [8]
A strider can still be equipped with a saddle while another mob is riding it.
If striders are given warped fungus , they breed to create baby striders, granting the player 1–7 experience orbs. The parent striders have a cooldown of about 5 minutes before they can breed again. All babies obtained through breeding take 20 minutes to grow up. The growth of baby striders can be accelerated using warped fungus; each use takes 10% off of the remaining time to grow up.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Striders have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Strider" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A tadpole is a bucketable aquatic baby passive mob hatched from frogspawn . They mature into one of the three frog variants depending on the biome in which they mature.
Tadpoles hatch from frogspawn in groups of 2-5.
As with other baby animals, tadpoles do not drop any items or experience on death.
Tadpoles swim aimlessly in water. On land, they flop around like fish and seek out nearest water. They die in less than 20 seconds after being out of water.
Unlike frogs , tadpoles are hunted by axolotls .
Tadpoles follow a player that is holding a slimeball .
A player can pick up a tadpole with a bucket of water . A tadpole's health, age, and custom name are preserved when it's picked up in a bucket.
A tadpole grows up into one of the variants of a frog depending on the tadpole's location, as shown on the table below. Tadpoles take one Minecraft day to grow up (20 minutes). Its growth may be accelerated by feeding it slimeballs. Each use reduces the remaining growth duration by 10%.
Alternatively, a tadpole can be prevented from aging when a player uses a golden dandelion , allowing it to remain as a tadpole indefinitely, or until another golden dandelion is used on it to cause its aging to resume.
Unlike all other mobs with baby variants, the tadpole is treated by the game as a completely different mob from the frog.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Tadpoles have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Tadpole" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A breeze is a hostile mob spawned by certain trial spawners found in trial chambers . It moves via jumping large distances when attacking, attacks by firing wind charges , and deflects all projectiles that hit it except wind charges. Breezes are the only source of breeze rods , which are dropped upon death.
Breezes spawn from trial spawners that generate surrounded by chiseled tuff in trial chambers . These trial spawners only generate in combat chambers, and never in the corridors. Only one breeze spawner can generate in each combat chamber, and it is usually in the center of the room.
Breezes can spawn only in places with line of sight to the trial spawner that spawns them.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
10 XP experience orbs are dropped if killed by a player or tamed wolf .
A breeze leaps around between firing wind charges at its target. Before jumping, it compresses itself like a spring and can jump up to 15 blocks horizontally and 5 blocks vertically. If the breeze is in lava , it can jump only one block into the air. Breezes are immune to all fall damage .
Breezes automatically deflect all projectiles that hit them except wind charges . Unlike shields , deflected projectiles maintain the same velocity, and can potentially harm the attacker or other entities . Breezes are unable to deflect the blast radius of splash potions or firework rockets , which affect them like any other mob if they are in range of the blast.
Breezes are partially unaffected by the Invisibility effect. The eyebrows and surrounding wind remain visible.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Breezes do not retaliate if attacked by mobs that can spawn from trial spawners ( zombies , husks , skeletons , bogged , strays , spiders , cave spiders , and slimes [ note 1 ] ). These mobs also do not retaliate if hit by a breeze's wind charge.
Breezes actively pursue and attack iron golems .
Breezes can rotate themselves while in a boat. They are the only mobs that can do this.
Breezes float upwards in water and lava exceptionally faster than all other mobs.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Breezes produce particles on the ground. The particles that are produced will depend on the block that they are standing on. For example, a breeze standing on a sandstone block will produce sandstone particles. The particle amount increases if the breeze is in an aggressive state towards another mob, such as an iron golem or player .
Breezes attempt to shoot a wind charge at a player or enemy within a distance of 16 blocks, with a cooldown of 32 game ticks (1.6 seconds) between attempts. In Bedrock Edition , the cooldown is 30 game ticks. When a breeze's wind charge attack directly hits an entity , the entity takes damage , and a burst of wind appears. If a wind charge hits a block , only a burst of wind appears. This wind burst deals knockback but does not deal any damage by itself; instead, it often deals damage by making the entity fall a high distance. The wind burst can also interact with blocks, toggling block states of non-iron doors and trapdoors , buttons , levers , and fence gates , as well as extinguishing lit candles . Such block interactions are potential threats in trial chambers , but can be controlled by the mobGriefing game rule . Bells can also be rung if hit by the wind burst, which is not affected by the mobGriefing game rule.
Wind charges can be deflected if hit with another projectile or a melee attack, similar to ghast fireballs .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Breezes have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Breeze" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A bogged is a mushroom -covered skeleton variant that spawns in swamps and mangrove swamps . Bogged behave similarly to skeletons, but have less health , fire their bows more slowly, take damage from powder snow , cannot convert to strays , and shoot tipped arrows of Poison .
Bogged can spawn in swamps and mangrove swamps , replacing about 30% of skeletons , as well as in trial chambers via trial spawners .
Bogged have a 1 ⁄ 3 chance to be selected as the "ranged" mob for trial spawners in trial chambers .
Spiders and cave spiders spawned in swamps and mangrove swamps have a 1% chance to spawn as a spider jockey , with an 80% chance of the rider being a bogged.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A bogged drops 2 mushrooms when sheared . Each individual mushroom has an equal chance of dropping as either a brown or red mushroom . Afterward, it cannot be sheared again, and the mushrooms growing from its head are permanently removed from the bogged.
Bogged behave the same as normal skeletons and shoot tipped arrows that inflict Poison for 4 seconds (dealing 3 HP damage ) on any target that they hit. When shooting their bow , bogged are just as fast as skeletons or strays , but bogged have a longer cooldown between attacks. The cooldown is 3.5 seconds on Easy and Normal difficulties , or 2.5 seconds on Hard. This is 1.5 seconds slower than the skeleton's attack cooldown . A bogged holding a tipped arrow or spectral arrow in its off-hand always shoots that type of arrow instead, and the arrow held is not consumed.
Unlike regular skeletons, bogged in powder snow take freezing damage and do not convert into strays . [1]
Being an undead mob, they are:
As they are also under the "skeletons" entity type tag , if a bogged kills a creeper , the creeper drops a music disc , randomly selected from 13 , cat , blocks , chirp , far , mall , mellohi , stal , strad , ward , 11 , and wait .
The eyes of bogged are emissive with Vibrant Visuals , similar to strays and parched .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Bogged have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Bogged" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A creaking is a hostile mob spawned by active creaking hearts at night . It moves to attack players with melee headbutts, but cannot move at all while any players in Survival or Adventure mode can see it. It is protected from all damage by the creaking heart that spawned it; breaking the creaking heart instantly kills the creaking. Hitting a protected creaking causes resin clumps to grow on pale oak logs near its linked creaking heart.
Creakings spawn when an activated creaking heart is triggered at nighttime. To activate the heart, it must be placed between two pale oak blocks ( pale oak logs , pale oak wood , stripped pale oak logs , or stripped pale oak wood ) with the same orientation as the heart and along the same axis (for example, all three oriented along the Y axis, stacked on top of each other). When these conditions are met and the creaking heart is within the Overworld , a creaking spawns within 16 blocks horizontally and 8 blocks vertically of the creaking heart. The spawned creaking is linked to this creaking heart. The creaking heart does not deactivate even if its surrounding logs are broken or moved via pistons when the creaking is out.
Unlike most monsters , a creaking can spawn on some blocks that prevent other mobs from spawning. Items that can be placed but do not have a collision box ( buttons , glow lichen , levers , rails , redstone dust , pressure plates , torches and its variants) and full blocks that are transparent ( glass , ice , scaffolding ) that normally prevent mob spawns do not prevent creakings from spawning. However, blocks with a hitbox that is not a full block, such as carpets , do prevent creakings from spawning.
If a creaking linked to a creaking heart is killed with a command during night, or moves more than 32 blocks away from its creaking heart, the creaking heart attempts to spawn a new creaking.
The creaking can also be spawned using its spawn egg or commands . Creakings spawned by these methods do not vanish during the day, are not linked to any creaking heart, can take damage normally, and can go through portals without dying.
Creakings do not drop any items or experience on death.
Newly spawned creakings begin in an unalerted state. While in this state, their eyes are dimly lit and they walk around aimlessly.
Idle creakings are not immediately hostile to the player, but become hostile once they enter the player’s field of vision.
When a creaking within approximately 12 blocks enters a player's field of vision, it becomes alerted. This is signified by an “activation” sound and its eyes glowing a brighter orange. While alerted, the creaking attempts to move toward and attack the player, moving only when outside of the player's field of vision (such as behind the player or hidden behind blocks). An alerted creaking moves quickly, faster than an attacking vindicator , able to close distances in a matter of seconds.
When within a player's field of vision, the creaking becomes completely immobile and can no longer attack, nor can it be pushed or knocked back by player attacks. If all nearby players leave the creaking's detection range (or enter Creative or Spectator mode), the creaking returns to its unalerted state.
Creakings inflict 2.5 HP × 1.25 melee damage in Easy difficulty, 3 HP in Normal difficulty, and 4 HP in Hard difficulty.
If a Survival or Adventure mode [1] player's facing direction (both pitch and yaw) is within 60° of the creaking without blocks obstructing, the creaking becomes immobile. Changing the field of view (FOV) or entering third person view does not affect this detection. Glass , stained glass , tinted glass , iron bars , copper bars , and powder snow do not count toward the obstruction.
If a player is wearing a carved pumpkin , any creakings within their first-person FOV can still move. Wearing a carved pumpkin does not prevent an unalerted creaking from becoming alerted.
A creaking spawned by a creaking heart is linked to it and becomes completely invulnerable to all sources of damage (except for the void and / kill ). If necessary, it safely navigates on or through hazardous blocks such as magma blocks , powder snow , and lava . When the creaking is hit by a player-caused source, it sways and produces a trail of orange and gray particles that move in the direction of its connected creaking heart, and resin clumps grow on pale oak logs near the creaking heart during night-time. Hitting a named creaking during the day does not place resin clumps near its heart.
Each creaking heart has a 32-block Euclidean radius surrounding it, where its linked creaking resides in. The creaking never intentionally moves beyond this radius from its creaking heart, even when pursuing a player. If it is pushed out of this radius, such as with pistons or knockback, it dies.
Creakings cannot enter minecarts ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or boats .
While an immobilized creaking cannot be moved or pushed directly by players, it can still be moved via other methods. This includes water , lava , explosions , pistons, falling blocks, wind charges and attacks from some mobs. Iron golems , hoglins , zoglins , ravagers and wardens are able to fling the creaking into the air, and shulker bullets can give creakings the Levitation effect.
Creakings can naturally swim and float on the surface of water or lava, but sink when they are immobilized from being observed.
Creakings spawned from creaking hearts are not subject to the Infested , Oozing , Wind Charged or Weaving status effects. However, creakings spawned using a spawn egg or commands are affected by these status effects as expected.
Pillagers , evokers , vindicators , and illusioners ‌ [ JE only ] flee from creakings when within 8 blocks. Vindicators with the name tag "Johnny" alternate between fleeing from creakings and attempting to attack them. Ravagers do not flee from creakings.
With Vibrant Visuals , the eyes of creakings are emissive similar to eyeblossoms . Combined with the dense fog in the pale garden and nighttime, the emissive eyes are often the only part visible from a distance.
Because a creaking sinks in water (or lava) while being observed, but float while not being observed, a pressure plate or similar means can be used to produce a redstone signal while a creaking is being looked at, due to it sinking down and activating it. An unobserved creaking bobs up and down in liquid, which can cause it to activate a pressure plate even if not being looked at. Giving a creaking enough space to bob prevents this.
Additionally, a redstone comparator can produce a signal by reading a creaking heart linked to a currently-spawned creaking. The produced signal strength is based on the Euclidean distance between the creaking and its heart, which is calculated as follows:
output = 15 − ⌊ distance 32 × 15 ⌋
In other words, the closer a creaking is to its heart, the stronger the signal.
Naturally-spawned creakings despawn during daytime; if they have been named with a name tag they can persist throughout the day, but will still despawn eventually (this behaviour is an open bug: it looks like either creakings should be unnameable, or named creakings should be fully persistent).
They also despawn if they are outside the 32-block radius around their linked creaking heart , or if they remain within the same block as a player for longer than 5 seconds, immediately respawning near the heart in both cases.
Being invulnerable, naturally-spawned creakings cannot be killed by normal means. To kill a creaking, the player must destroy the creaking heart block it is linked to. Once the linked creaking heart is destroyed, the creaking twitches briefly before dying. This counts as the player who mined the block killing the creaking with regard to advancements and statistics .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Creakings have entity data associated with them that contains various properties.
Java Edition [verify] :
Bedrock Edition :
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to non- creaking heart creakings:
Issues relating to "Creaking" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A diamond is a mineral that can be obtained from diamond ore along with various loot chests , vaults , ominous vaults , and suspicious sand . It is required to craft diamond tools , armor , and enchanting tables and is also used to duplicate smithing templates .
Diamond ore can be mined using an iron pickaxe or better. An ore drops a single diamond. If mined by any other tool, it drops nothing. If the pickaxe is enchanted with Fortune , it has a chance of dropping an extra diamond per level of Fortune, allowing for a maximum of 4 diamonds with Fortune III. If the ore is mined using a pickaxe enchanted with Silk Touch , it drops an ore block rather than a diamond.
The ore is found at level 15 or lower, most commonly between -50 and -64, appearing more frequently as the Y-level decreases, but with a possibility of generation being prevented by bedrock at -59 and below.
A vault may eject a diamond when activated by a player, giving diamonds limited renewability if multiple players activate the vault.
Diamonds are mainly used to craft diamond armor and equipment, which can be upgraded to netherite armor and equipment.
Diamonds are the repair items for the diamond tier and armor material , and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil or grindstone :
Diamonds can be used to select powers from a beacon . The player must select one of the available powers then insert a diamond into the item slot.
A diamond can be substituted for an iron ingot , a gold ingot , an emerald or a netherite ingot .
The following color palettes are shown on the designs on trimmed armor:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Diamond" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A netherite ingot is an item obtained from crafting four netherite scraps and four gold ingots together, as well as loot from bastion remnant loot chests. Unlike other items, it is immune to being destroyed by fire and lava . They are primarily used to upgrade diamond gear.
Netherite ingots are obtained by crafting four netherite scraps and four gold ingots . It is a shapeless recipe , therefore the placement of the netherite scraps and gold ingots does not matter when crafting it.
Netherite Ingots generate as loot in Treasure bastion remnants, in the Treasure chests (located at the bottom of the treasure room in the stash of Blocks of gold )
Netherite ingots are crafting materials used to make netherite tools, weapons, and armor.
Netherite ingots can be used on a smithing table to upgrade diamond items to netherite items, as well as trim any armor piece. Data such as durability, enchantments, and custom names are preserved. A set of all netherite tools and armor costs 10 netherite ingots.
Trim color palette The following color palettes are shown on the designs on trimmed armor:
Netherite ingots are the repair items for the netherite tier and armor material , and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil :
A netherite ingot could be used to select powers from a beacon instead of using an emerald , gold ingot , iron ingot , or a diamond . The player must select one of the available powers, and then insert an ingot in the item slot. The gold option is more efficient than the netherite option because it consumes 3 fewer gold and no netherite scrap .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Netherite Ingot" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Stone is a block found underground in the Overworld or on the surface of mountains .
Stone makes up the majority of the solid blocks generated in the Overworld above Y=0. From Y=8 downwards, stone gradually transitions into deepslate , until it is completely replaced by deepslate at and below Y=0.
When chunks generate, stone can be found under 1-5 layers of grass blocks , dirt , gravel , clay , coarse dirt , podzol , mycelium , sand , sandstone , red sand , red sandstone , or terracotta , depending on the biome .
When the world is generating new chunks, some stone is replaced with ore features of other blocks. They may also be revealed on the side of small hills.
Stone also generates in igloo basements, some Overworld ruined portals , and in trail ruins .
Stone also makes up most of the blocks on the void start platform in Superflat worlds created with the Void preset.
Stone also generates inside trial chambers with cobwebs on top next to trial spawners . They also indicate that the spawner is a spider or cave spider spawner.
Stone also generates in abandoned camps in dappled forests and meadows .​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Stone can also be made by lava flowing on top of water blocks (both flowing and source). The water is replaced by stone.
Stone can be mined using a pickaxe , in which case it drops cobblestone . When mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing. If a stone is mined with a Silk Touch enchanted pickaxe, it drops itself.
Stone can be smelted from cobblestone.
Silverfish can enter and hide in stone, creating an infested block .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Stone" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Cobblestone is a common block obtained from mining stone . It is mainly used for crafting or as a building block.
The suitable tool to break cobblestone is pickaxe . Cobblestone needs to be broken using a pickaxe, otherwise the breaking time will increase and the block drops nothing.
Cobblestone drops itself when it's destroyed.
Cobblestone occurs naturally in monster rooms , jungle pyramids , pillager outposts , ocean ruins , strongholds , villages , woodland mansions , trail ruins and in trial chambers surrounding baby zombies spawners alongside mossy cobblestone .
A single block of cobblestone always generates at the coordinates of (8, -61, 8) at the center of the void start platform , in Superflat worlds created with the Void biome preset.
When water and flowing lava come into contact, the flowing lava is replaced by cobblestone. However, if the lava flows on top of the water from above, stone is created instead. Non-flowing lava (a lava source block) turns into obsidian upon contact with water, thus the requirement of flowing lava.
Cobblestone is dropped by stone when broken without Silk Touch , and also by infested cobblestone when broken with Silk Touch.
Cobblestone can be used as a basic building block, as it has relatively high blast resistance and is common.
Silverfish can enter and hide in cobblestone, creating an infested block .
Cobblestone is one of the repair items for the stone tier and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Cobblestone" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Dirt is a block found abundantly in most biomes under a layer of grass blocks at the top of the Overworld as well as in patches underground.
Dirt can be broken with any tool , but a shovel is the quickest. Dirt drops itself when it's destroyed.
Dirt comprises the majority of the upper terrain layers in most Overworld biomes, bridging the gap between stone and grass blocks in various thicknesses.
There are approximately 1,850 dirt blocks per chunk in plains , forest , snowy plains , jungle , and windswept hills biomes. In villages , dirt generates naturally as part of several different structures. In woodland mansions , dirt generates in several types of rooms. Four blocks of dirt generates as part of each ancient city near the center. Dirt can also generate in trail ruins and at the base of trees in trial chambers entrances.
Dirt can generate in the Overworld in the form of ore blobs . Dirt attempts to generate 7 times per chunk in blobs of size 0–160 at Y=0–160, in all biomes. It can replace stone , granite , andesite , diorite , polished granite‌ [ BE only ] , polished andesite‌ [ BE only ] , polished diorite‌ [ BE only ] , tuff ‌ [ JE only ] , and deepslate ‌ [ JE only ] .
An enderman that picks up and holds a dirt block drops it upon death.
Farmland , dirt paths , grass blocks, mycelium , and podzol drop dirt if broken without Silk Touch . Farmland and dirt paths‌ [ JE only ] drop dirt even if broken with Silk Touch.
Farmland turns into dirt if either a mob jumps on it, a solid block is placed over it, or nothing is planted on it and it is not within four blocks of water .
A dirt path immediately turns into dirt if a solid block is placed over it.
Coarse dirt can be tilled with a hoe to become dirt.
Tilling rooted dirt with a hoe turns it into normal dirt and yields a hanging roots item.
Grass blocks and mycelium can die under various circumstances (Most often when a solid, opaque block is placed on top of them). When they die, they turn into dirt.
By tilling coarse dirt, the player can convert gravel into dirt. Two blocks each of gravel and dirt become four blocks of coarse dirt, which can then be placed and tilled. Since gravel is renewable through bartering with piglins , this makes a renewable source of dirt.
Another way to obtain renewable dirt makes use of moss blocks . Azalea converts the moss block below it into rooted dirt when grown into a tree . In Bedrock Edition , most saplings will convert the moss directly below it into dirt, sometimes a minute after it's grown into a tree. In Java Edition , large spruce trees convert up to about 100 moss blocks into podzol when grown. Since moss can be converted from stone using bone meal , and stone can be renewably generated with water and lava , dirt can be renewably created as long as there is access to water, lava and moss blocks.
A third way to obtain renewable dirt is by buying podzol or rooted dirt from wandering traders . However, only 18 blocks of podzol or 10 blocks of rooted dirt can be purchased from each trader, so this method cannot be performed on a large scale.
Dirt's primary use is for farming, but due to its abundance, it can also be used as a highly available building block or as temporary scaffolding.
Dirt has the ability to grow saplings , sugar cane , mushrooms , sweet berries , and bamboo , which can be planted directly in dirt under appropriate conditions.
Using a hoe on dirt turns it into farmland , enabling wheat seeds , pumpkin seeds , melon seeds , potatoes , carrots , beetroot seeds , pitcher pods , and torchflower seeds to be planted on it.
Using a shovel on dirt turns it into a dirt path .
When a dirt block is adjacent to a grass block and is exposed to a light level of at least 4, it is eventually converted into a grass block at random intervals.
Mycelium spreads in a similar fashion, but requires a light level of at least 9.
Using a water bottle , splash water bottle or lingering water bottle will convert the dirt into mud .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dirt" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A grass block is a natural block that generates abundantly across the surface of the Overworld .
A grass block can be obtained by mining it using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch . Otherwise, it drops dirt .
The snowy grass variant cannot be obtained as an item through regular gameplay, even with the use of Silk Touch . In Java Edition , commands can be used to give players a grass block that is set to the snowy state when placed (e.g. / give <player> minecraft:grass_block[minecraft:block_state={snowy:"true"}] ).
Grass blocks generate naturally in many biomes in the Overworld , and as part of villages and ancient cities . Grass blocks generate as disks between the mud in mangrove swamps .
Endermen can pick up grass blocks, and drop the blocks they are holding if killed, making it the only way to obtain grass blocks without the use of Silk Touch .
Grass can spread to nearby dirt blocks, but not coarse dirt or rooted dirt . Grass spreading without player intervention depends heavily on the time of day . For a dirt block to accept grass from a nearby grass block, the following requirements must be met:
When grass is random ticked , it spreads by checking 4 blocks within range and converts any dirt blocks selected into grass.
Though water and lava are both light-filtering blocks (meaning they decrease skylight by 1 level but do not affect block light), other light-filtering blocks such as ice and slime blocks do not block grass from spreading to the dirt block. Grass blocks can grow under all other transparent blocks like glass , fences , or torches . Grass jumps directly from one block to a neighbor and is not affected by gaps or other blocks being "in the way." Grass blocks spread at random intervals and have an equal chance of spreading to any suitable dirt blocks that are in range. Because grass can spread as much as 3 levels downward, it tends to spread down slopes much faster than it spreads up them.
The coloration of grass blocks is dependent on the biome they are in. A grass block always uses the color set to its location, regardless of how it was placed or of its source. This affects the side and top of the block.
In Bedrock Edition , biome colors also appear on maps . [1]
In Java Edition , an item of grass block uses biome color with temperature 0.5, downfall 1.0, and as a result is colored #7cbd6b . In Bedrock Edition , this color is coded in the item's texture.
These values are generated by the biome dyeing algorithm, which depends on the biome's temperature and downfall. See biome colors for more information.
Using bone meal on grass blocks causes short grass , tall grass , ferns ,‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] and flowers to grow.
Passive mobs tend to wander toward grass blocks. They also wander toward light .
When a sheep eats a grass block, the block becomes dirt , and a sheared sheep regrows its wool . Baby sheep graze grass much more often than adults and mature 1 minute faster when grazing.
Tilling a grass block with a hoe converts it to a farmland block.
Dirt paths can be created by using any type of shovel on the side or top of a grass block with air above it. The shovel loses 1 durability for each dirt path block created.
Grass dies and changes to dirt a random time (when a random tick lands on the block) after it has been covered by any opaque blocks. Transparent blocks can kill grass in a similar manner if they cause the light level above the grass block to be four or below (like water does) and the surrounding area is not otherwise sufficiently illuminated.
In Java Edition , animals occasionally spawn on grass blocks that have light level 9 or brighter in the space directly above. This is quite rare and requires that there be few other animals nearby or in any loaded chunks. Most animals are instead created along with the terrain.
In Bedrock Edition , most animals require surface grass blocks (grass blocks with no solid block anywhere above them at the same x, z coordinate) to spawn. Animals regularly spawn in most Overworld biomes on surface grass blocks that have light level 7 or brighter in the space directly above.
Grass blocks turn into a snowy grass block if snow , powder snow , or a snow block is placed on top of the block. Removing the snow layer turns the block into a normal grass block.
In Java Edition , the top face of snowy grass blocks is not affected by biome tinting and defaults to gray, which is not normally seen by players because of the snow layer on top. In Bedrock Edition , the top face of snowy grass blocks is affected by biome tinting and can be seen in-game when inside powder snow placed on grass blocks.
In Bedrock Edition , placing grass blocks into a composter has a 30% chance of raising the compost level by 1. [2]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Grass Block" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Sand is a gravity-affected block found abundantly in deserts and beaches , and less commonly in or near surface water.
The suitable tool to break sand is a shovel .
Sand drops itself when it's destroyed.
Sand generates naturally in many biomes of the Overworld , in disk -like formations replacing dirt in shallow water, usually rivers , lakes, and oceans in most grassy biomes except swamps .
It generates in abundance in deserts and beaches , generally in four-block-deep layers, supported by sandstone below. Sand also generates as the ocean floor of lukewarm oceans and warm oceans, in a single layer not supported by sandstone.
Sand also generates as part of warm ocean ruins and some cold ocean ruins , some desert village houses, desert wells , desert pyramids , and has a chance to generate in trial chamber entrances.
Sand can spawn floating in the air . The floating cluster of sand falls when one of the sand blocks receives an update (e.g. when a block is placed near it or when a block near it is broken). While floating, it emits the falling_dust ‌ [ Java Edition only ] or the falling_dust_sand_particle ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] particle .
An enderman holding a sand block drops the block upon death.
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 sand when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Wandering traders may sell 8 sand for 1 emerald . This is the only renewable method of obtaining sand. Because new wandering traders require at least 20 minutes to spawn and have a limited number of trades per spawn, it is more practical to obtain sand by other means.
Suspicious sand becomes regular sand when brushed .
If the supporting block below a block of sand is removed, it falls until it lands on the next available block. More specifically, the sand block turns into a " falling block " entity , which is affected by gravity; when the falling block lands on a block with a solid top surface, it becomes a block again. More information about the falling block entity is available in the main article listed above.
If falling sand lands and covers the head of a mob or the player , the mob or player buried in it continuously receives suffocation damage. If falling sand lands in the space occupied by a non-solid block (such as torch , rail , or redstone dust ) or a block less than a full block tall (such as slab or soul sand [1] ), the sand drops and turns into an item . If it falls onto a cobweb , it falls slowly until it has gone through completely; if it touches the ground while still inside the cobweb, the sand becomes an item. Sand that falls onto a lifting bubble column floats on top of the water until the bubble column is blocked or removed.
Though TNT does not break any blocks if it explodes underwater, if sand, concrete powder (in one-block-deep water only), or gravel falls and covers the TNT before it explodes, blocks are broken as normal.
In Bedrock Edition , if falling sand is stacked in cobweb is pushed with a piston , entities standing behind it teleports to the number of falling sand blocks stacked. [verify]
Sand is required for farming cactus and can also be used for farming bamboo , sugar cane , and kelp .
A turtle egg can hatch only if it is placed on sand, red sand, or suspicious sand.
Sand rarely emits ambient noises if there is sand or red sand 8 blocks away in at least 3 of the 4 horizontal directions. In order to emit sounds, the block directly above sand must be air .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sand" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Gravel is a gravity-affected block found in the Overworld and the Nether . It is a source of flint , which has a chance to drop when gravel is broken.
The suitable tool to break gravel is shovel .
When destroyed using a tool without Silk Touch , gravel has a 10% chance to drop flint if this tool isn't enchanted with Fortune ; It has a 14.2857……% ( 1 ⁄ 7 ) to drop flint if the tool is enchanted with Fortune I, 25% for Fortune II, and 100% for Fortune III. If the flint is not dropped, gravel drops itself instead. [1] [2] Gravel drops itself when destroyed using a tool with Silk Touch.
Gravel is generated in disks replacing dirt in shallow water, which is possible in any grassy biome except swamps , but most commonly in rivers , flatland biomes, and undeep oceans. One layer of gravel generates in deeper water bodies in almost any biome, most commonly in oceans (regular, cold, and frozen‌ [ JE only ] ). In windswept gravelly hills , layers of gravel cover most of the surface, and they generate in the form of strips in stony shores .
Gravel can generate in the Overworld in the form of ore features . Gravel attempts to generate 14 times per chunk in ore features of size 0-160, at all levels and in all biomes. It can replace stone , granite , andesite , diorite , polished granite‌ [ BE only ] , polished andesite‌ [ BE only ] , polished diorite‌ [ BE only ] , tuff ‌ [ JE only ] , and deepslate ‌ [ JE only ] .
Gravel can also generate as part of cold ocean ruins , some warm ocean ruins, trail ruins , and in villages .
In the Nether , gravel generates naturally in layers along the shores of the lava sea , in all biomes except crimson and warped forests . The layers are one block deep in Nether wastes , and 3-5 blocks deep in soul sand valley and basalt deltas .
Ore features of gravel in the Nether attempt to replace netherrack 2 times per chunk in blobs of size 0-160, from levels 5 to 41‌ [ JE only ] or 36‌ [ BE only ] , in all Nether biomes except basalt deltas .
An enderman holding gravel always drops the block upon death.
Piglins may barter 8-16 gravel with a chance of ~8.53% ( 40 ⁄ 469 ) when given a gold ingot .
If the supporting block below a block of gravel is removed, it falls until it lands on the next available block. More specifically, the gravel block turns into a "falling block" entity , which is affected by gravity; when the falling block lands on a block with a solid top surface, it becomes a block again. More information about the falling block entity is available in the main article listed above.
When gravel falls on a player or mob, it can result in suffocation inside gravel until the destruction of the block, or moving out of it, or dying. If falling gravel lands in a space occupied by a non-solid block (such as torches , rails , or redstone dust ) or non-full block (such as slabs or soul sand [3] ), it breaks, then drops itself and never drops flint. [4] [5]
Gravel can be placed on a non-solid block without falling.
Bamboo can be placed and grown on gravel.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Gravel" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A log or stem is a naturally occurring block found in trees or huge fungi , primarily used as a building block and to create planks , a versatile crafting ingredient. There are currently nine types of logs: oak , spruce , birch , jungle , acacia , dark oak , mangrove , cherry , and pale oak ; and two types of stems: crimson , and warped . The upcoming third drop of 2026 introduces poplar as the tenth log type.
Logs and stems can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster. Logs and stems drop themselves when broken with any tool.
All types of logs generate naturally as part of trees , although fallen trees can only contain oak, spruce, birch, jungle, or poplar.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ] Azalea trees are generated with oak logs. Additionally, one jungle log generates for each jungle bush . Stems generate naturally as part of huge fungi .
In addition to trees:
Oak logs generate as part of:
Spruce logs generate as part of:
Jungle logs generate as part of shipwrecks .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Acacia logs generate as part of savanna villages.
Dark oak logs generate as part of:
Mangrove logs generate as part of trial chambers .
Birch logs generate as part of abandoned camps in birch forests, flower forests, and forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Cherry logs generate as part of abandoned camps in cherry groves.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Pale oak logs generate as part of abandoned camps in pale gardens.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Poplar logs generate as part of abandoned camps in dappled forests.​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
Wandering traders can sell 8 logs for one emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 8 available logs when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Trees can be grown using saplings or azalea , and huge fungi can be grown using small Nether fungi .
The following table presents the amount of logs or stems needed to produce an even multiple of a given item with no waste left over, and the quantity produced:
Stems cannot be smelted into charcoal.
Logs, but not stems, can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Using an axe on a log or stem strips it, turning it into a stripped log or a stripped stem , which act the same as regular logs or stems.
Cocoa beans can be placed on the side of jungle logs to grow a new cocoa pod.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The data values for minecraft:log2 were as follows:
The block state variants of log2 were as follows:
Issues relating to "Oak Log", "Spruce Log", "Birch Log", "Jungle Log", "Acacia Log", "Dark Oak Log", "Mangrove Log", "Cherry Log", "Pale Oak Log", "Crimson Stem", or "Warped Stem" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Obsidian is a block found naturally in all dimensions , and created when water flows over a lava source in the Overworld , or as part of structures in the Nether and the End . It has high hardness and blast resistance , making it immune to normal explosions . Obsidian can be used to craft beacons , enchanting tables , and ender chests , and build the frame of a Nether portal . Obsidian is only obtainable with a diamond or netherite pickaxe.
The suitable tool to break obsidian is the pickaxe . Obsidian needs to be broken using a diamond pickaxe or better, otherwise the breaking time will increase and the block drops nothing.
8 obsidian blocks are dropped by an ender chest when broken without a tool enchanted with Silk Touch .
Obsidian is formed when flowing water touches a lava source block, and it can be found naturally where water from a spring or aquifer has flowed over a nearby lava pool . This provides a renewable way of obtaining obsidian, as lava can be farmed via cauldrons under pointed dripstone .
Obsidian is created when a Nether portal is generated in the Nether or the Overworld . This portal can then be mined, providing another way of obtaining obsidian renewably. In Java Edition , if a Nether portal is generated midair, 4 extra obsidian is generated at the bottom of the portal.
When an entity enters the End via an End portal , it always spawns on a platform consisting of 25 obsidian. This platform can then be mined, and regenerates whenever an entity enters the End, providing another way of obtaining obsidian renewably. Obsidian pillars also regenerate when the ender dragon respawns.
Obsidian generates naturally in all dimensions :
Piglins may barter a block of obsidian when given a gold ingot with a chance of ~8.53% ( 40 ⁄ 469 ).
Obsidian is useful for building explosion -resistant structures as it has a blast resistance of 1,200, the highest of all blocks obtainable in Survival mode (tied with crying obsidian , anvils , and netherite blocks ). Obsidian also cannot be destroyed by the ender dragon . These qualities make obsidian an extremely effective defensive block , and it is commonly used in many bases in multiplayer servers as protection from griefers.
Obsidian is, however, not immune to the wither . Although black wither skulls have merely the explosive power of a ghast fireball, blue wither skulls ignore blast resistance, which means they can destroy obsidian. The wither's body can also destroy obsidian, either through block-breaking behavior upon taking damage, or its dash attack‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . The wither is the only mob in the game that can break obsidian.
Obsidian is one of the two blocks an End crystal can be placed on; the other is bedrock .
Obsidian is used to create a Nether portal frame, which is then ignited using fire . The frame must be a vertical rectangle any size from 4×5 to 23×23. The corners of the frame are not required for an operational portal.
Obsidian cannot be pushed by pistons . It also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Obsidian" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Crying obsidian is a luminous variant of obsidian that can be used to craft respawn anchors . Purple particles drip from its faces. Like obsidian, It has high hardness and blast resistance , making it immune to normal explosions . It can be obtained by mining it with a diamond or netherite pickaxe, and it cannot be crafted .
There is no way to convert normal obsidian into crying obsidian. It can be obtained only via the methods listed below.
The suitable tool to break crying obsidian is pickaxe . Crying obsidian needs to be broken using a diamond pickaxe or better, otherwise the breaking time will increase and the block drops nothing.
Crying obsidian drops itself when it's destroyed.
Crying obsidian generates as part of some ruined portals . Each obsidian has a 15% chance to generate as crying obsidian.
Piglins have a ~8.53% chance ( 40 ⁄ 469 ) to barter 1–3 crying obsidian when given a gold ingot . This is both the most reliable way to obtain crying obsidian, and also the only renewable source of it.
Much like obsidian, crying obsidian is a resilient building block. It has a blast resistance of 1,200 and cannot be destroyed by the ender dragon . However, crying obsidian cannot be used to create a nether portal frame, [1] and the End crystal is unable to be placed on it. [2]
When placed, crying obsidian occasionally produces purple dripping particles, which are purely decorative.
Particles emitted from crying obsidian can pass through certain non-solid blocks , such as glow lichen and sculk veins .
Crying obsidian gives off a light level of 10, which does not melt snow or ice. Its blast resistance distinguishes it from other light-emitting blocks.
Crying obsidian cannot be pushed by pistons , and cannot be pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Crying Obsidian" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Bedrock is an indestructible block found in all three dimensions .
Bedrock can be obtained only from the Creative inventory , using pick block in Creative mode, or commands .
Bedrock can't be destroyed by breaking.
Bedrock drops nothing when destroyed.
Bedrock comprises the five bottommost layers of the Overworld and the Nether in a rough pattern, although the top four layers are predominantly flat bedrock with only rare gaps, rendering the lowest, completely flat fifth layer (at Y=-64) mostly inaccessible. The distribution of bedrock is dependent on the world seed . ‌ [ JE only ]
In the Nether, bedrock additionally comprises the top five layers in a rough pattern. At the top of the Nether (Y=127), the layer is composed solely of bedrock, preventing the player from ascending above Y=127 without switching their gamemode to Creative or Spectator , or exploiting glitches. The patterns of bedrock are consistent in the Nether in Java and Bedrock editions.
In the End , a single block of bedrock generates on top of each End spike , each topped with an End crystal . The bedrock remains after the destruction of the crystal and is lit on fire indefinitely. Bedrock additionally composes part of the exit portal at the center of the central island . Unlike in other dimensions, there is no bedrock floor at the bottom of the End, meaning it is possible to fall into the void without exploiting glitches.
An unlimited number of End gateways generate randomly across the outer End islands, each consisting of 12 blocks of bedrock and an End gateway block .
If the bedrock that makes up the exit portal is removed by any means, it regenerates when the ender dragon is defeated or re-summoned.
An End gateway is generated on the central End island upon the death of each ender dragon, which is mostly made of bedrock. A total of 20 of these gateways generate in a circle centered on the exit portal in set positions. A corresponding End gateway is generated in the inner edge of the outer islands after an End gateway on the central island is activated for the first time.
Bedrock generates at the bottom of the Overworld and the Nether to prevent entities from falling into the void in these dimensions.
The bedrock ceiling in the Nether prevents players from accessing the Nether roof , which is meant to be an empty out-of-bounds area.
Bedrock generates as part of End gateways, end spikes tops and End exit portals to prevent those parts of the structures from being broken.
Mobs do not spawn on bedrock. Endermen are unable to place the block they are holding onto bedrock.
Beacons treat bedrock as a transparent block, meaning their beams can pass through it, allowing beacons to be used in the Nether.
In the End, any fire on bedrock never extinguishes naturally, similar to netherrack , but does not spread.
Since bedrock is indestructible in Survival, it can be used against withers . Certain configurations of bedrock (such as that found under the exit portal) can be used to securely trap withers by spawning them below the bedrock.‌ [ Java Edition only ] The wither can then be easily killed, utilized to break blocks automatically, or used to farm wither roses .
Bedrock is one of the only two blocks on which End crystals can be placed, the other being obsidian . Placing four End crystals on bedrock around the exit portals triggers respawning the ender dragon .
Placing an End crystal on bedrock in the End sets it on fire.
Bedrock is unable to be pushed or pulled by either of the piston variants (regular or sticky).
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
In Bedrock Edition , bedrock uses the following block states:
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Bedrock" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Glass is a transparent solid block that can be dyed into stained glass , or crafted into tinted glass . It is also a versatile crafting ingredient used to craft harnesses , glass panes , beacons , daylight detectors and End crystals .
Glass drops itself only if it is broken with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch . Otherwise, it drops nothing.
Glass does not have an assigned tool; it is mined at the same speed regardless of what tool is used. [1]
A secret room containing glass can be found inside woodland mansions . Glass is also generated in ancient cities .
In Java Edition , glass blocks adjacent to other glass blocks are invisible when viewed through glass that is identical in color.
Mobs cannot spawn on glass blocks.
Glass blocks cannot be seen through by mobs, as they treat them as completely opaque . Mobs may look at players through glass, but this is purely visual.
Redstone dust and components can be placed on glass, but cannot power glass. Glass can't cut vertical redstone. Vertical redstone can be placed on glass. In Java Edition , it transmits redstone signals up, not down. Otherwise, glass in redstone circuits is functionally the same as a top slab .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Glass" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Tinted glass is a block that blocks light while being visually transparent.
Tinted glass drops as an item when broken with any tool or by hand, unlike other glass . [1]
Tinted glass behaves like an opaque block, blocking light and beacon beams completely, despite being visually transparent. However, it isn't a solid block, and as with regular glass, mobs do not suffocate inside it. Unlike other types of glass, it cannot be turned into glass panes . Mobs do not spawn on top, similar to regular glass.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Tinted Glass" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Ice is a transparent block formed from frozen water , which it can melt into if broken or exposed to bright light . Its top face is slippery for most entities and causes ridden boats to move at high speeds.
Ice can be easily destroyed without tools , but the use of a pickaxe speeds up the process. However, the block drops only when using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch . If mined without Silk Touch, the block drops nothing and instead is replaced with water if there is a block under the ice block.
Ice is generated by the freeze top layer in blocks with a temperature below 0.15 – the biome's snowfall height . Here, it replaces the top water block if exposed to the surface. This is most common in frozen oceans , frozen rivers , snowy beaches , and less commonly in lakes in any snowy biome or even exposed aquifers in mountains.
Ice generates in small blobs on the surface in frozen peaks . It can also be found in igloos ‌ [ Java Edition only ] [1] [2] as a window and in the ice box of ancient cities .
Water source blocks in a snowy biome eventually freeze into ice if exposed to the sky from directly above, the block light level inside the water block is less than 10, and there is at least one horizontally adjacent non-water block. This includes non-solid blocks, even air, and it includes diagonally adjacent blocks; however, waterlogged blocks do not count. This can happen at any time of day and in any weather condition.
Water also freezes into ice in cold biomes with a base temperature of ≤ 0.05 ​ [ more information needed ] [ citation needed ] , as long as the altitude is high enough for snowfall . Ice does not form in Cold Ocean , Deep Cold Ocean , and Deep Frozen Ocean biomes.
Ice formation occurs as part of chunk ticking , so it requires a player to be nearby, similar to crop growth and grass spreading. The speed of ice formation is affected by the game rule randomTickSpeed .​ [ more information needed ]
When an ice bomb is thrown into water, it transforms the water in a 3×3×3 cube centered around the projectile into ice. This affects source water and flowing water.
Despite being created by a 3×3 recipe, packed ice is not a storage block, because it cannot be crafted back into ice. The same applies to the next tier of compression, blue ice .
Ice is slightly slippery, causing entities (excluding minecarts [3] ) to slide, including items . This allows for increased speed of items in water currents, by placing ice blocks under the water current. Items already travel at high speeds in water currents because they float, so ice block water streams are less necessary for item transportation.
A player who sprints and jumps repeatedly on ice travels faster than on any other block type. The player can travel even faster if they sprint and spam jump in a 2-block-high corridor with ice on the floor, allowing the player to accelerate to extremely high speeds, although this costs a lot of hunger .
In Java Edition , when a non-full block is placed on top of ice, the block has the same "slipperiness" as the ice below it. [4]
Like other entities, boats travel extremely quickly on ice and can reach a speed of 40 m/s, much faster than the 8 m/s speed on water . [5] More beneficially, unlike water, ice can be placed in the Nether , allowing players to construct boat highways made of ice or blue ice, to make use of the 1:8 distance travel ratio and travel at an equivalent speed of up to 320 m/s (720 mph or 1152 kph) between locations in the Overworld . Furthermore, using blue ice will make the boat move 1.8 times faster than normal ice.
Ice can be used to create water either by its melting or being broken. If there is a movement-blocking block or any fluid directly underneath the ice block, the ice becomes a water source block when broken.
Ice also melts into water if the block light level immediately next to it on any side is higher than 11, even if there is no block below it. Sky light level is ignored, therefore ice does not melt from sunlight . In Minecraft Education and Bedrock Edition , ice also melts when near a heat block , though heat blocks do not produce light.
If ice melts or is broken in the Nether , no water is produced. However, unlike from using a water bucket , no smoke particles are produced either.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Ice" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Packed ice [a] is a variant of ice that functions almost identically, but does not melt and is opaque instead of transparent. Like other types of ice, it can only be obtained using a Silk Touch tool.
Packed ice can be obtained using any tool enchanted with Silk Touch , though a pickaxe is the fastest. Without Silk Touch, breaking it drops nothing. Unlike normal ice , packed ice never turns into water when broken.
Packed ice is found in the rare ice spikes biome. It also forms icebergs found in frozen oceans . Packed ice also generates in frozen peaks and in ice patches .
Packed ice generates as windows in igloos .‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Packed ice generates as piles (and in some houses or meeting points) in villages in snowy plains biome.
Packed ice also generates in ancient cities and in trial chambers surrounding stray spawners.
Wandering traders can occasionally sell a block of packed ice for a single emerald .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 1 packed ice when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Packed ice is slippery, causing most entities to slide, including items . This also allows for increased speed of items in water currents by placing the packed ice under the water current. Mobs do not travel faster in water currents on packed ice.
In Java Edition , when a non-full block of half-block or less in height is placed on top of packed ice, the block inherits the same 'slipperiness' as the ice below it for most entities, not including boats due to a bug. [1] Additionally, any non-full block inherits the 'slipperiness' for items.
Boats can travel on packed ice with a top speed of 40 m/s. Ice tracks built from blue ice , packed ice, or a combination are useful for long-range travel in all three dimensions.
Mobs can spawn on packed ice. This can allow for compact mob farms that rely on the tendency of pushed mobs to slide off the ice in some way.
Packed ice is a completely solid block, and allows placement of any objects on top.
Unlike normal ice , packed ice does not melt if placed near light sources.
Packed ice is not a storage block, as it cannot be crafted back into ice .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Packed Ice" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Blue ice is a solid block similar to packed ice and ice , but much more slippery. It is the fastest ice type for boat riding and can be used to generate basalt in conjunction with soul soil and lava .
Blue ice can be obtained using any tool enchanted with Silk Touch , although a pickaxe is the fastest. Breaking the block without Silk Touch drops nothing.
Blue ice naturally generates on the bottom of icebergs and as large arching structures in frozen ocean biomes . It also generates as piles in some snowy plains village houses, and in ancient cities . Rarely, an iceberg generates entirely made of blue ice.
It takes 81 regular ice made into packed ice to create a single blue ice block.
Wandering traders occasionally sell blue ice for 6 emeralds .
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 1 blue ice when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Blue ice is slippery, causing most entities to slide, including items . It is even more slippery (0.989) than ice or packed ice (0.98). This allows for increased speed of items in water currents by placing the blue ice under the water current. Mobs do not travel faster in water currents on blue ice.
Boats can travel even faster on blue ice than on either normal ice or packed ice, being able to reach a top speed of 72.73 m/s (as opposed to 40 m/s on ice and packed ice). Ice tracks built from blue ice, packed ice, or a combination are useful for long-range travel in all three dimensions .
Blue ice is a completely solid block and allows the placement of any objects on top.
Unlike normal ice, blue ice does not melt when placed near light sources.
Blue ice can be used to create basalt . When lava flows into a space above soul soil and next to blue ice, basalt is formed. This can be used in a basalt generator .
Blue ice is not a storage block, as it cannot be crafted back into packed ice.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Blue Ice" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A snow block is a full-sized block of snow .
To obtain a snow block or snowballs , the block must be broken with a shovel ; otherwise, the breaking time is greater, and the block drops nothing.
A snow block drops four snowballs when broken by a tool without Silk Touch . A snow block drops itself when broken by a tool with Silk Touch.
Snow blocks generate on the ground in the ice spikes , grove , snowy slopes , frozen peaks and jagged peaks biomes, they form the walls of igloos and some snowy plains village houses and can also generate on top of some icebergs .
Snow blocks also generates in some abandoned camps . ​ [upcoming]
A snow block can also be obtained by breaking 8 snow layers with a Silk Touch shovel. [1]
Unlike snow , snow blocks do not melt when a heat block ‌ [ BE & edu only ] or a light-emitting block is nearby, nor will they melt in dry biomes.
Snow blocks can be used to make snow golems by putting 2 snow blocks on top of another and a carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern on the top as the head. Note that the carved pumpkin has to be placed last for this to work. This can be done sideways and upside-down, as well.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Snow Block" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Clay is a block that can be found abundantly in lush caves , in patches in shallow surface water or converted from mud using pointed dripstone . It can be smelted into terracotta or broken into clay balls which are smeltable into bricks .
Clay blocks can be mined with any item, but shovels are quickest. Destroying a clay block yields 4 clay balls . If broken with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch , it drops itself instead. Destroying a clay block with a tool enchanted with Fortune does not increase the amount of clay dropped.
Clay generates in large quantities on the floors of ponds in lush caves .
Clay can also generate in lush caves in the form of blobs . Clay attempts to generate 46 times per chunk in blobs of size 0-160, at any height. It can replace stone , granite , andesite , diorite , polished granite‌ [ BE only ] , polished andesite‌ [ BE only ] , polished diorite‌ [ BE only ] , tuff ‌ [ JE only ] , and deepslate ‌ [ JE only ] .
Clay is found underwater in shallow, crystal-shaped disks , replacing dirt that generates in shallow rivers , lakes, and oceans in most grassy biomes. Few blocks of the disk can also generate above water, or under other water sources than the sea level.
Clay generates in mason houses in plains , savanna , and desert villages , and under fisher cottages in taiga villages.
Clay generates in abandoned camps .​ [ upcoming: Third Drop 2026 ]
An enderman holding a clay block drops the block upon death.
In Java Edition , when the player has the Hero of the Village status effect, a mason villager might throw that player a clay block as a gift.
If mud is placed above a block with a pointed dripstone hanging underneath, the mud eventually turns into clay, although the dripstone does not deposit any water into a cauldron . This conversion does not happen in the Nether . [1]
Big dripleaves , small dripleaves , mangrove propagules , azaleas and flowering azaleas are the only plants that can be placed on clay. Unlike most other blocks, clay supports small dripleaves even outside of water .
When an azalea or flowering azalea placed on a block of clay is grown into an azalea tree , the clay block turns into rooted dirt .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Clay" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Terracotta is a block that is found abundantly in badlands biomes, or can be obtained by smelting clay . It can be dyed to create stained terracotta .
Terracotta can be mined using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Terracotta can be found naturally and abundantly in badlands biomes.
Terracotta can be found in desert villages, as a part of houses, lamps and meeting points.
Terracotta has the same blast resistance as most other stone blocks, which is significantly higher than the block of clay before being smelted. A block of terracotta when one block away from a creeper or TNT explosion protects any blocks behind it, although the terracotta itself is destroyed.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Terracotta" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Glazed terracotta is a vibrant solid block that comes in the sixteen regular dye colors, obtained by smelting stained terracotta . Glazed terracotta does not stick to slime blocks or honey blocks , and it cannot be pulled by sticky pistons , but it can be pushed by pistons .
Glazed terracotta requires a pickaxe to be mined. When mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Purple glazed terracotta generates in some cold ocean ruins .
Yellow glazed terracotta generates in mason houses in savanna villages .
Orange glazed terracotta generates in savanna village armorer houses.
White glazed terracotta generates in some desert village buildings.
Lime glazed terracotta generates in one of the desert village temples.
Light blue glazed terracotta generates in toolsmith houses in desert villages.
Black, cyan, light blue, light gray, orange and yellow glazed terracotta can generate in trail ruins .
Red glazed terracotta generate in altar-like structures with ominous vaults within trial chambers .
Glazed terracotta can be obtained by smelting any stained terracotta . Unstained terracotta cannot be smelted.
Glazed terracotta does not stick to slime blocks or honey blocks , but unlike immovable blocks , it can be pushed by pistons and sticky pistons . It cannot be pulled by sticky pistons.
When placed, glazed terracotta's texture rotates relative to the direction the player is facing while placing the block. If several glazed terracotta blocks of the same color are placed in the "correct" orientation in a 2×2 or greater area, the textures align to create a singular image, as demonstrated in the image to the right.
The magenta glazed terracotta pattern includes an arrow (⬆) design that can be used to point to things or direct players. A guide is shown below, in order to correctly place the arrow direction (based on testing).
Glazed terracotta blocks are designed to form a larger, cohesive pattern when placed in the correct 2×2 configuration. Most textures have reflection symmetry along a diagonal line that goes from corner to corner, though the colors of individual pixels can differ slightly.
Although the design of each individual glazed terracotta block is up for interpretation, there are some intentional details in certain blocks:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Glazed Terracotta" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Concrete is a block created when concrete powder touches water . It comes in the sixteen dye colors.
Concrete requires a pickaxe to be mined. When mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Red and white concrete can be found in trial chambers throughout many various murals in an atrium.
Concrete is formed when concrete powder comes into contact with a block of water (source block, flowing or waterlogged ‌‌ [ Java Edition only ] ). If next to a waterlogged block, it must be adjacent to the sides where water can flow out from, such as the open sides of stairs , but not the back side of stairs or any sides of waterlogged leaves .
Concrete is renewable as all of the crafting ingredients of concrete powder are renewable. However, without glitches, sand is renewably obtained only through the wandering trader , which spawns infrequently and allows a limited number of trades per spawn, making it impractical to obtain sand (and by extension, concrete) through renewable means.
The bright and solid colors of concrete make it useful for decoration. It has more pronounced colors than stained terracotta , and unlike wool, is not flammable.
As a building material, its hardness is slightly higher than stone, but its blast resistance is significantly lower. [1]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Concrete" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Concrete powder is a gravity-affected block that is converted to concrete when touching water . It comes in the sixteen dye colors.
Concrete powder can be mined with any tool or by hand, but using a shovel is the quickest method.
The crafting recipe is shapeless; the order of ingredients does not matter.
Concrete powder is renewable as all of its crafting ingredients are themselves renewable. However, without glitches, sand is renewably obtained only through the wandering trader , which spawns infrequently and allows a limited number of trades per spawn. Therefore, concrete powder is more easily obtained by simply harvesting naturally-occurring sand.
Concrete powder falls when there is a non-solid block beneath it.
If a concrete powder block comes into contact with water , it solidifies into a block of concrete . Specifically, the block has to be placed into, placed next to, or fall into flowing water, a water source block, or a waterlogged block‌ [ Java Edition only ] . If placed next to a waterlogged block, it must be adjacent to the sides where water can flow out from, such as the open sides of stairs , but not the back side of stairs or any sides of waterlogged leaves . It does not solidify in midair falling past water. If it lands next to water, it solidifies only after a block update. Rain or splash water bottles also have no effect on concrete powder. Concrete powder in item form also does not become concrete. Concrete powder placed directly at water makes the placement sound of concrete.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Concrete Powder" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sponge is a block that can be placed to remove water in an area around itself. This turns it into a wet sponge , which can be smelted or placed in the Nether to dry it to be reused. Sponges can only be found in ocean monuments .
Either type of sponge can be mined by hand, or with any tool, dropping itself as an item; however, hoes break sponges the fastest compared to other tools.
Ocean monuments can have "sponge rooms". Each room contains an average of 30 wet sponges. See Ocean Monument/Structure for details.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A wet sponge placed in the Nether dries out instantly with a puff of steam and turns into a normal sponge.
In Bedrock Edition , a wet sponge placed in any dry biome in the Overworld dries out after a few minutes and turns into a normal sponge. If a normal sponge sucks up water in a dry biome, it immediately dries out with a puff of steam.
A wet sponge can be dried in a furnace , making the sponge reusable.
A sponge can be used to turn water into air by "absorbing" the water. A sponge instantly absorbs nearby water when it is placed next to water or when water comes into contact with it. Sponges immediately turn wet upon absorption and do not absorb any more water afterward. Wet sponges drip small water particles. Sponges in item form do not absorb water or become wet.
A sponge absorbs both flowing and source blocks of water up to 6 blocks away (taken as a taxicab distance ) in all six directions around itself. Instead of a cube or a sphere, this effectively encloses the volume of an octahedron with vertices placed 4 units away from the center in each direction due to the game's extensive use of taxicab distance. A sponge does not absorb more than 118 blocks of water however, and water closest to the sponge is absorbed first. The absorption propagates only between adjacent water blocks and does not "jump over" non-water blocks, including air.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sponge" or "Wet Sponge" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sea lantern is an underwater light source that appears in ocean monuments and ocean ruins . It has an animated pulsing texture.
No tool can accelerate the breaking process of sea lantern.
Sea lantern drops 2~3 prismarine crystals when it's destroyed using a tool without Silk Touch . In Java Edition , the Fortune enchantment makes the sea lantern drop extra 0~level prismarine crystals at the equal chances, but it is capped at 5. In Bedrock Edition , the number of drops is not affected by Fortune. [1] Sea lantern drops itself when it's destroyed using a tool with Silk Touch.
Sea lanterns generate throughout ocean monuments , as well as in some ocean ruins .
Sea lanterns emit a light level of 15, the brightest possible light level in the game.
Sea lanterns can be used to activate a conduit by building a structure around it. By doing this, the conduit emits the Conduit Power effect in a certain radius, depending on how many blocks are used to power it. Prismarine , dark prismarine , and prismarine bricks can also be used for this purpose.
The Sea lantern blocks all sunlight, players and mobs suffocate inside it, and it blocks a beacon 's beam, preventing the beacon's activation. However, like transparent blocks, it does not prevent the opening of chests , monsters (including slimes ) cannot spawn on it,‌ [ Java Edition only ] and it does not transfer a redstone signal. This behavior also occurs in glowstone .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sea Lantern" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Glowstone is a light-emitting block found hanging from ceilings and overhangs in the Nether . It can be used as a crafting material, broken into glowstone dust , and is required to fuel respawn anchors .
If glowstone is broken using a tool with Silk Touch , the block drops itself. When a glowstone block is broken using any other tool, it drops 2–4 glowstone dust . If a tool with Fortune is used, it has a higher chance of dropping a large amount of glowstone dust—but never more than 4.
Glowstone only occurs naturally in the Nether , where it generates in crystalline blobs on the underside of ceilings or overhangs. They can be found in every Nether biome, although they are significantly rarer in soul sand valleys , [1] because the ceiling of this biome is made of soul sand or soul soil below which glowstone blobs cannot generate. They can still occasionally generate in caves and canyons in this biome, [2] because the ceiling is made of netherrack .
Glowstone can also generate as a part of hoglin stable bastion remnants .
Journeyman Clerics always sell one glowstone for 4 emeralds , and wandering traders occasionally sell one glowstone for 2 emeralds.
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 1 glowstone when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Glowstone blocks emit a light level of 15, the brightest possible light level in the game. They emit the same amount of light as sea lanterns , jack o'lanterns and shroomlights .
When placing redstone dust on a glowstone block, being a transparent block, signals can pass from one block to another diagonally. Redstone wire, even though it may appear to connect up the side of a glowstone block and to the wire portion on top, does not send a redstone signal down the glowstone block. This makes glowstone effective for vertical diodes, logic gate designs, and space-efficient instant vertical redstone.
Note that upside-down slabs can be used for the same purpose, and are easier to obtain.
Glowstone, like other pushable blocks, becomes a block of moving piston when moved by a piston ; this momentarily stops it from giving off light. [3]
Glowstone is used to charge respawn anchors .
If a dispenser containing glowstone is facing a respawn anchor, it can automatically charge the respawn anchor when powered.
Glowstone blocks all sunlight, players and mobs suffocate inside it, mobs are able to pathfind to it, and it blocks a beacon beam, preventing the beacon's activation. However, like transparent blocks, it does not prevent the opening of chests, monsters (including slimes ) cannot spawn on it,‌ [ Java Edition only ] and it does not transfer a redstone signal. This behavior also occurs in sea lanterns .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Glowstone" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Prismarine is a type of stone that appears underwater in cold ocean ruins and ocean monuments . It periodically changes color between blue and green.
Prismarine drops itself only when mined with a pickaxe. If mined by any other tool , it drops nothing.
Prismarine, in large amounts, naturally generates as the main blocks making up ocean monuments .
Normal prismarine can also be found in cold ocean ruins .
Prismarine can be used for decoration or as a building block with high blast resistance.
The normal prismarine is uniquely useful for decoration as it has an animated texture. The cracks in prismarine slowly cycle in color through light blue, green, purple, and dark blue. The full animation for the prismarine texture changes color 22 times in an irregular sequence before the whole pattern repeats; this takes 5 minutes and 30 seconds.
Prismarine can be used to activate a conduit by building a structure around it. By doing this, the conduit emits the " Conduit Power " effect in a certain radius, depending on how many blocks are used to power it. Sea lanterns , prismarine bricks and dark prismarine can also be used for this purpose.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Prismarine" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
I picked Prismarine because 1) it sounds good, 2) it references water with "marine", 3) it references its "shimmering effect" I hinted at with "prism", and 4) it doesn't really mean anything in the real world.
Netherrack is a frail stone block found abundantly in the Nether . Fire lit on top of netherrack burns indefinitely and cannot be extinguished by rain .
The suitable tool to break netherrack is pickaxe . Netherrack needs to be broken using a pickaxe, otherwise the breaking time will be higher and the block will drop nothing.
Netherrack drops itself when it's destroyed.
Netherrack makes up most of the Nether 's terrain, and also generates as part of ruined portals in the Overworld and the Nether.
Netherrack generates as part of bridge and treasure room bastion remnants .
Nylium drops a netherrack block when destroyed using a pickaxe that is not enchanted with Silk Touch .
Crimson or warped nylium transforms into netherrack if a solid, opaque block is directly above it, or when it is covered by snow . [1]
In Bedrock Edition , netherrack generates as part of Nether portals spawned floating, making netherrack renewable .
Netherrack can be used as a cheap building block. Because of its abundance and softness, it can be used to construct temporary structures that can be used for scaffolding, blockage, or other purposes.
When netherrack's top is lit on fire , the fire burns indefinitely and isn't put out by rain . This fire can spread to flammable blocks adjacent to the netherrack.
Using bone meal on netherrack placed next to warped nylium or crimson nylium transforms the netherrack into more warped or crimson nylium.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Netherrack" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Soul sand is a block found primarily in the Nether that slows down entities walking on it unless they are wearing Soul Speed boots. It can also be used to grow Nether wart , create soul fire , and make upward bubble columns .
Soul sand can be mined with any tool or by hand, but shovels are the quickest.
Soul sand generates most abundantly in soul sand valleys , where it and soul soil make up the surface terrain. It is also found below Y=34 in the Nether wastes along the shores of lava seas , generally in four-block-deep layers.
Soul sand can generate in the Nether in the form of ore blobs . Soul sand attempts to generate 12 times per chunk in blobs of size 0 to 23 at altitudes from 0 to 31‌ [ JE only ] or 32‌ [ BE only ] in soul sand valleys . It can replace only netherrack .
Soul sand is found naturally in Nether wart rooms of Nether fortresses . It also generates in hoglin stables and housing unit bastion remnants .
Soul sand is also found in ancient cities , the only location with soul sand in the Overworld .
Piglins have approximately an 8.53% ( 40 ⁄ 469 ) chance to barter 2–8 soul sand when given a gold ingot .
Movement on or just above soul sand is slowed down for any mob or player that is not wearing boots enchanted with Soul Speed by approximately 41.91% (i.e. a player's speed is 2.508 m/s with no Speed or Slowness effects), and standing on soul sand causes entities to sink 2 pixels (or 0.125 blocks) into the block. A cover with solid blocks of any non-zero physical thickness prevents sinking, and any solid cover thicker than half a block also eliminates the slowing effect.
The effect applies to sneaking, walking, sprinting, and crawling (but not gliding), and to both regular and sprint-swimming. It also applies to riding mounts. Travel by boat is also slowed, although this requires water no more than 2/8 a block in depth for the boat to sit low enough to be affected. Furthermore, it does not matter whether the player or mob moves actively or is being moved, like by flowing water.
Most blocks that can be placed on full blocks can be placed on soul sand, with the exceptions of both types of Nether fungi , crimson roots , warped roots , and Nether sprouts . [1] In addition, a falling block that lands on soul sand turns into an item , [2] which prevents gravel from replacing lava if soul sand is underneath.
A hopper underneath a soul sand block can collect items that are dropped on it.
Soul sand cannot be used in place of regular sand as a falling block because it is not affected by gravity.
Striders are slowed down by soul sand underneath a layer of lava.
Soul sand has a height of 14 ⁄ 16 of a block.
Soul sand is used for growing Nether wart , a primary base ingredient for many types of potions. Nether warts can be placed on soul sand and grow through four growth stages over time. Placing Nether wart on soul sand grants the "A Seedy Place" advancement‌ [ Java Edition only ] . Nether wart can grow in any dimension and does not have any light level requirements. Nether wart can also be placed only in soul sand, not soul soil .
Four blocks of soul sand (or soul soil ) are used to construct the wither . The four blocks are arranged in a "T"-like formation (similar to the summoning of an iron golem ) and 3 wither skeleton skulls are placed in a row on top of the "T" to summon the wither.
Placing soul sand under source water blocks creates a lifting bubble column , which causes items, entities, players, and mobs inside the column to rise to the surface. The bubble column extends upward through any number of empty water source blocks (not waterlogged blocks).
A player can restore breath by entering a soul sand bubble column.
Fire lit on soul sand becomes soul fire , which burns indefinitely.
Because soul sand is not as high as a full block , a player is set on fire if standing next to lava while on soul sand. [3] Standing near water while on soul sand extinguishes the player.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Soul Sand" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Soul soil is a block found abundantly in soul sand valleys . It does not slow down entities , but still activates Soul Speed . It can also be used to create soul fire , and generate basalt when paired with blue ice and lava .
The suitable tool to break soul soil is shovel .
Soul soil drops itself when it's destroyed.
Soul soil generates naturally in the soul sand valley biome.
Soul campfires drop soul soil when broken without Silk Touch . Because soul campfires can be crafted with soul sand , which is a renewable resource, soul soil is thus renewable as well. [1]
Unlike soul sand, soul soil does not slow mobs down, does not create bubble columns in water, and is a full block in vertical size (meaning mobs, players, or items do not sink inside of it).
While wearing boots with the Soul Speed enchantment, players walk more quickly on soul soil.
Fire lit on soul soil becomes soul fire .
4 blocks of soul soil (or soul sand ) are used in the construction of a wither . (See Wither § Spawning )
Lava on top of soul soil and directly adjacent to blue ice turns into basalt . (See Tutorial:Basalt farming )
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Soul Soil" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A magma block is a light -emitting block found underwater in the Overworld , and more abundantly in the Nether . It deals burning damage while stood on, which can be prevented by sneaking . Underwater magma blocks produce bubble columns that pull entities downward and provide air .
Magma blocks can be mined using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, they drop nothing.
In the Overworld, magma blocks generate at the bottom of water aquifers in underwater magma in clusters of 1–8 blocks, and in sulfur springs in clusters of 1–3 blocks.
Magma blocks also generate as a part of ocean ruins , ruined portals that are not in cold biomes, and the eruption room found in trial chambers .
Magma blocks generate in the Nether in the form of ore features . In Java Edition , it attempts to generate 4 times per chunk in sizes of 0–160, from altitudes Y=27 to Y=36 in all biomes. It can only replace netherrack . In Bedrock Edition , it attempts to generate 9 times per chunk in sizes of 0–106, from altitudes Y=23 to Y=36 in all biomes. It can replace netherrack and blackstone .
Magma blocks generate as part of deltas in basalt deltas biomes, replacing some of the lava.
Magma blocks also generate as a part of hoglin stable and treasure room bastion remnants , as well as all ruined portals in this dimension.
Magma blocks damage most living entities standing on top of them, even if underwater, dealing 1 HP of fire damage every tick , which in practice is reduced to once every half-second with damage immunity . Walking into the side of a magma block doesn't cause damage. Damage from magma blocks does not reduce durability in netherite armor. Because magma blocks deal fire damage, it can be reduced by armor , the Resistance effect, and Protection / Fire Protection enchantments, and can be completely negated by the Fire Resistance effect. Unlike other sources of fire damage, sneaking and the Frost Walker enchantment can also grant immunity to damage from magma blocks.
Any mobs immune to fire damage cannot take damage from magma blocks. However, a few mobs like shulkers and sulfur cubes with blocks inside cannot take magma block damage despite not having natural immunity to fire.
Magma blocks do not set mobs or players on fire and thus do not cook the animals that they kill, nor do they destroy items .
Blocks that are the height of a trapdoor or lower (such as snow layers , carpets , repeaters , or comparators ) do not prevent a magma block from damaging mobs and players above it. [1] [2] However, a sunken boat on top of the magma block prevents damage.
There are a few specific death messages associated with magma blocks. If a player or named pet is killed simply from standing on the block, the death message displayed in the chat is: "[player] discovered the floor was lava" . If a player or named pet was attacked and knocked back to their death onto magma blocks, the message is: "[player] walked into danger zone due to [player/mob]" .
Magma blocks emit a light level of 3. They do not melt ice or snow .
Magma blocks emit smoke particles under rainfall, much like lava .
Making walls out of magma blocks prevents spiders from climbing them.‌ [ BE only ]
Mobs try to avoid walking over magma blocks but still walk over them if no other path is found. Most mobs do not spawn on magma blocks (exceptions are magma cubes , zombified piglins , ghasts , and squid ).
When a magma block's top is set on fire , the fire burns indefinitely, similar to netherrack .
When a water source is directly above a magma block, a whirlpool bubble column is created, going down from the highest source block. Anything encountering the bubble column is pulled down, including items, boats, players, and mobs.
A player can restore breath underwater by entering a magma block's bubble column.
When placed above a magma block and below a water source with a height of 1 to 4 blocks, potent sulfur may occasionally erupt. A full cycle occurs every 300 to 1200 game ticks (15 to 60 seconds), while the eruption phase lasts between 20 and 100 game ticks (1 to 5 seconds).
When a block of potent sulfur is placed, two random values are assigned to it based on the position of the block in the world: a dormant value (between 15 and 30) and an eruption value (between 1 and 2). The intervals between the dormant state and the eruption state depend on the height of the water column above the potent sulfur and these two values:
Geysers going through blocks
When a singular block is placed above a geyser, but not directly above its water source, some of the geyser particles pass through it and lose the ability to launch entities.
Geysers generate naturally on the surface as part of sulfur springs due to them featuring magma blocks. The sulfur pools within sulfur caves do not feature magma blocks underneath their potent sulfur, and thus geysers cannot be found naturally in sulfur caves.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Magma Block" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Basalt is a block found in the basalt deltas in the Nether along with soul sand valleys and bastion remnants .
Basalt drops as an item if mined by any pickaxe . If mined by any other tool, it drops nothing.
Basalt generates naturally as basalt pillars , which are found in the soul sand valley biome. They also generate in the basalt deltas biome as regular terrain and as part of basalt columns . In Java Edition , they also generate in blobs , which attempt to replace netherrack 75 times per chunk in blobs of radius 3–7 from levels 0 to 127 in basalt deltas biomes.
Basalt can also be found naturally as part of bastion remnants .
Basalt also generates when lava flows into a space that is on top of soul soil and adjacent to blue ice . The flowing lava is then replaced with basalt.
Basalt's only current use is as building material. Like logs and quartz pillars , basalt blocks point perpendicular to whatever block face they are placed on.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Basalt" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
End stone is a block that appears in the End , and apart from generated structures , makes up all of the solid ground that exists in that dimension.
End stone can be obtained using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
End stone is found only in the End , where it makes up all the floating islands that generate in the dimension.
The 16 End stone blocks under the edge of the exit portal are replaced when the ender dragon is respawned, and again when it is killed. Because End crystals , which are used to respawn the dragon, are renewable , this makes End stone renewable as well.
In Bedrock Edition , End gateways generate a small floating island of End stone when an entity travels through, for the entity to land on if there are no valid locations.
If an exit portal exists at a different position from the world origin (for example, an old exit portal from before 1.9), it is completely converted into End stone if the ender dragon is re-summoned.
End stone has a blast resistance of 9, which is 3 more than that of ordinary stone . This is the highest blast resistance of any block movable by pistons besides anvils ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] , ancient debris , and netherite blocks .
It cannot be picked up by endermen nor destroyed by the ender dragon .
It is the only block on which chorus flowers can be planted.
End stone can be replaced by sculk via sculk catalysts .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "End Stone" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Purpur blocks are decorative blocks that can be crafted with popped chorus fruit and are naturally generated in End cities and End ships .
The suitable tool to break purpur block is pickaxe . Using any other tool increases the breaking time and the block drops nothing.
Purpur blocks can be found naturally as part of End cities and End ships .
Purpur blocks are primarily decorative blocks , similar to other brick -type blocks. They can also be used to craft different variants of the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Purpur Block" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Sculk is a block found abundantly in the deep dark or converted from other blocks by a sculk catalyst . Like most of the rest of the sculk family , it drops experience when broken by a tool .
The suitable tool to break sculk is any type of hoe .
Sculk drops 1 experience when it's destroyed using a tool without Silk Touch . Sculk drops itself when it's destroyed using a tool with Silk Touch.
Sculk naturally generates in patch formations in the deep dark biome or any sculk patches .
Sculk blocks generate when a mob dies within 8 blocks of a sculk catalyst , replacing blocks in the area with the sculk_replaceable tag , which includes the surface blocks of most biomes in all three dimensions:
Sculk blocks are primarily used for decoration. They have an animated texture that consists of glowing spots, but they do not illuminate the surroundings. It has a similar texture of an end portal viewed from above.
Sculk, when connected to sculk catalysts, is used to grow a patch of sculk. See sculk catalyst for more details.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sculk" or "Sculk Block" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Images are sorted by their approximate creation date.
A sculk vein is a block found in the deep dark or generated by sculk catalysts . It can generate or be placed on any side of a solid block.
Sculk veins can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. A sculk vein drops itself only if it is broken with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch . Otherwise, it drops nothing.
Sculk veins are generated within the deep dark biome.
Sculk veins generate when a mob dies within 8 blocks of a sculk catalyst .
Sculk veins can be placed on any and multiple sides of a block, similar to glow lichen .
Sculk veins cannot be destroyed by flowing water or lava . [1]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sculk Vein" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sculk catalyst is a sculk block that "blooms" when a mob or player dies nearby, which may convert nearby blocks to sculk blocks (except for more sculk catalysts).
A sculk catalyst can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. It drops itself only if mined with any tool enchanted with Silk Touch . It drops 5 experience if mined without Silk Touch.
Sculk catalysts are generated within the deep dark biome.
A warden drops a single sculk catalyst upon death, unaffected by Looting . This is the only renewable way to obtain sculk catalysts.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Sculk catalysts convert experience into sculk veins , sculk sensors , and sculk shriekers , and use experience to convert many natural blocks into sculk .
When a living entity (a mob or player, including ender dragons [1] [2] , withers , and wardens ) dies near a sculk catalyst by any means, it blooms. This sculk bloom turns the mob into sculk charges based off its natural experience drops. Sculk charges grow into new sculk blocks, sensors and shriekers. Sculk blocks are always produced, with up to 1 sculk block per experience point. A sculk charge also has a 9% chance to grow a sculk sensor, and a 1% chance to grow a sculk shrieker.
A bloom occurs for the death of any living entity, and can even consume multiple entities at once. A sculk bloom cannot occur if the entity is not directly above a solid block or if the entity is below the sculk catalyst. A sculk farm can be made using pointed dripstone as long as the sculk catalyst is on the same level as the pointed dripstone .
During a sculk bloom, the catalyst gives off soul particles , and creates a patch of sculk blocks with sculk veins around them. Sculk blooms can replace blocks in the sculk_replaceable tag , including the surface materials of most of the biomes in all the Overworld , the Nether , and the End .
A sculk bloom occurs for the death of any living entity within a Euclidean distance of 8 blocks in Java Edition or 10 blocks in Bedrock Edition from a sculk catalyst.
If the entity dies near multiple sculk catalysts, only the nearest sculk catalyst blooms.
When a living entity (a player or mob ), is consumed by a sculk bloom, it won't drop experience , because the sculk bloom event converts the entity's experience into sculk charges . One experience point is worth one sculk charge. These charges are used to convert the block beneath the entity into a sculk block. If the block is already a sculk block, or if there are extra sculk charges, the sculk block absorbs the sculk charges. Up to 1000 charges can be present in one block.
The sculk charge in a block is lost when the block is destroyed or broken.
Sculk growth is an event where a sculk bloom starts on a non-sculk block. The sculk growth first tries to convert the charged block into a sculk block. The following blocks can be converted:
In Java Edition , these blocks are marked under the #sculk_replaceable tag.
Sculk growth can grow all of the sculk family blocks excluding more sculk catalysts. If the charged block can't be converted, sculk veins grow on the block instead. If sculk veins can't grow, the sculk charge is removed and nothing happens. Each sculk block costs 1 experience to grow. Charge can also be used to create sensors or shriekers, or can be lost to decay.
When a sculk block is grown, it also tries to grow up to 20 sculk veins on every face of every adjacent block. A sculk vein costs 1 sculk charge when it grows on a block that cannot be converted into sculk.
Sculk growth can't happen on a block that is completely surrounded by blocks unless some of those blocks are sculk veins.
Sculk veins are never placed on the sides of a sculk block and are removed when the block they are attached to is converted to a sculk block.
Every other game tick , sculk blocks and veins discharge excess sculk charges. This discharge can cause the sculk charge to spread across a patch of sculk blocks and grow the patch larger.
Every other game tick, when sculk blocks or veins discharge, they transfer all of their sculk charges to a random adjacent block. The adjacent block must be a sculk block, a sculk vein, or one of the blocks that is sculk_replaceable . If there are no adjacent blocks to discharge to, the sculk charge simply stays where it is and eventually decays.
Each time a sculk block is charged, it discharges again. This causes sculk charges to move like electricity in a daisy chain. Sculk charges from different sculk blocks and veins tend to cluster together if there are enough charges, similar to how water collects in a valley or river. Sculk charges keep moving like this until they run out due to converting blocks, constructing shriekers and sensors, or decaying.
If a sculk charge keeps discharging in the same area without creating new sculk family blocks, it decays.
Every time a sculk block or vein discharges, it has a 9% chance to grow a sculk sensor, and a 1% chance to grow a sculk shrieker.
Sculk sensors and sculk shriekers cannot receive sculk charges and are only produced by them.
Sculk sensors and shriekers cannot grow if there are 2 or more sculk sensors and shriekers within a 9×3×9 box, with the bottom center of the box centered on the sculk bloom's origin (or within -4,0,-4 and 4,2,4 in relative coordinates).
Sculk shriekers generated by sculk growth won't summon wardens, and they shriek more frequently due to their can_summon tag being set to false .
Even though growing new sculk requires experience, sculk blooms still occur for mobs that can not drop experience on death. This is the intended behavior, and a sculk catalyst even blooms when an armor stand is destroyed [3] because the game has armor stands labeled as being living entities.
When a player with no experience dies in range of a sculk catalyst, it still blooms and no sculk grows. If keep inventory is on, the player retains experience after dying. This prevents the sculk bloom from consuming the experience and growing sculk. [4]
Sculk catalysts emit a light level of 6.
Sculk catalysts cannot be moved by pistons or sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A sculk catalyst has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sculk Catalyst" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sculk shrieker is a sculk block that will "shriek" if any player touches its top (even indirectly ) or activates a nearby sculk sensor . Only players can trigger it.
Naturally-generated sculk shriekers also inflict Darkness and may summon a warden if triggered, but shriekers placed by players or sculk catalysts are completely inert and harmless.
A sculk shrieker can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. It drops itself only if mined with any tool enchanted with Silk Touch . If mined with a non-Silk Touch tool, it drops 5 experience instead. When a sculk shrieker is broken, it loses the ability to summon wardens, even if mined with Silk Touch.
Sculk shriekers can be found infrequently within the deep dark biome, and they are much more common within ancient cities . All naturally generated shriekers can summon wardens.
A sculk catalyst has a 1% chance of generating a sculk shrieker on top of a sculk block. These shriekers do not summon wardens.
Sculk shriekers "shriek" after being activated. A sculk shrieker activates when any player stands on the black part in the center of the block, even when sneaking . Sculk shriekers are also activated by any sculk sensor triggered within an 8-block spherical radius of itself, but only if the vibration was caused by a player. However, a sculk sensor cannot activate the sculk shrieker if the line between the two contains a wool block. The shrieker shrieks for 90 game ticks (4.5 seconds).
Sculk shriekers that naturally generate in the deep dark biome are capable of inflicting the Darkness effect upon players and summoning wardens. In Bedrock Edition , when a warden is summoned from a sculk shrieker, the spawn event minecraft:spawn_emerging is applied to it. This spawn event is what allows the warden to play the emerging animation with the minecraft:behavior.emerge component. If a sculk shrieker is placed by a player or generated via a sculk catalyst , the tag can_summon is set to false , and therefore a warden cannot be summoned and Darkness cannot be inflicted by that sculk shrieker [1] . The top texture of shriekers with the tag set to false are different from the ones with the tag set to true. The “souls” on the “dummy” shriekers will spin slowly, more dim and spin counter-clockwise, as opposed to the “souls” on the real ones spinning faster, glow more brightly and spin clockwise [confirm] .Each time a naturally generated sculk shrieker is activated, it adds 1 to a "warning" level to alert a warden . The warning level is specific to each player , not each sculk shrieker, meaning that the same player can activate a different sculk shrieker for each of the four times, and a warden still spawns on the fourth activation, even though any particular shrieker had been activated once. If a player does not activate any sculk shrieker, the warning level decreases by 1 every 10 minutes (12000 ticks). In multiplayer, all other players in a 16-block spherical radius are also "blamed" for a sculk shrieker's activation, and all blamed players will have their warning level set to one more than the highest warning level among blamed players, and all of their warning level timers will be reset. After the shrieking ends, all players in Survival or Adventure mode within 40 blocks are given the Darkness effect for 12 seconds. After a warden is summoned, a player's warning level does not reset back to 0, meaning multiple wardens can be summoned.
Naturally generated sculk shriekers have a 10-second cooldown per player . This means that if a player triggers one shrieker, they are completely unable to trigger any other shrieker within 10 seconds. The cooldown period includes the 4.5-second shrieking, which means 5.5 seconds after the previous shrieking ends, the player can activate sculk shriekers again.
When a player's warning level reaches level 4, the sculk shrieker attempts to spawn a warden after its shrieking ends. If the shrieker is broken before it ends shrieking, a warden spawns immediately. Up to 20 attempts are made to spawn a warden within an 11×13×11 box centered on the shrieker. If there isn't another warden within 24 blocks, a warden emerges from the ground. The warden always spawns at the highest available block. If all 20 spawning attempts fail, a loud roaring sound is played. Spawning a warden does not decrease the player's warning level, so a warden can be immediately summoned again after the 10-second cooldown. However, the warning level will not increase above 4.
In Peaceful difficulty or in Java Edition , if the game rule doWardenSpawning is set to false , naturally generated sculk shriekers behave as if they are placed by a player: they do shriek, but there is no shrieking cooldown, the player's warning level does not increase, no Darkness effect is inflicted, and no warden spawns.
If the player that triggered the sculk shrieker is outside the shrieker's range when the shrieking ends, the sculk shrieker does not apply the Darkness effect to any player. The player's warning level still increases by 1.
It is possible to make a warden spawn from a distance, by shooting a projectile into the direction of known sensors that are near shriekers.
The warnings have unique subtitles at different levels of warning:
Since sculk shriekers only activate in response to vibrations sent from nearby sensors caused by a player, it has the potential be used for systems that require player-only vibration filters. Activated sculk shriekers can also be detected by an observer , making it useful for sending a pulse to redstone components. This works even if the shrieker and sensor are both waterlogged .
No sculk sensor responds to the sound of a shrieker, so they cannot be used to re-emit only player vibrations a long distance, but blocks of amethyst can re-emit all vibrations and then a sculk shrieker at the destination can filter for whether this vibration was originally player-caused. [ needs testing ]
Some vibrations do not trigger a sculk shrieker even though they may seem player-caused: one is the vibration of passing by while riding a minecart. Even passing through a tripwire while in a minecart does not trigger the shrieker.
Sculk shriekers cannot be moved by pistons or sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A sculk shrieker has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Sculk Shrieker" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A block of amethyst , known internally as an amethyst block , is a block found in amethyst geodes or crafted from amethyst shards . It can be placed next to a sculk sensor to "relay" received vibrations to other sculk sensors.
A block of amethyst can be obtained by mining it with any pickaxe . When mined using any other tool , it drops nothing.
Blocks of amethyst generate naturally on the inner wall of amethyst geodes , with calcite and smooth basalt making up the next two outer layers.
A block of amethyst makes a quiet overlay sound when generally interacted with, and makes louder sounds when hit by projectiles.
When a block of amethyst is placed adjacent to a sculk sensor or a calibrated sculk sensor , if that sculk sensor receives a vibration , the block of amethyst re-emits its frequency as a separate vibration at its location. This vibration can then be detected by another sculk sensor, allowing a chain of sculk sensors and amethyst blocks to be created, transmitting a signal wirelessly.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Block of Amethyst" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Budding amethyst is a fragile block found in amethyst geodes that grows amethyst clusters over time. It drops nothing if it breaks, and cannot be moved from where it is found.
Budding amethyst can only be obtained via the Creative inventory or with commands . It is unobtainable in Survival ; using a tool enchanted with Silk Touch does not drop anything.
The suitable tool to break budding amethyst is a pickaxe . Budding amethyst needs to be broken using a pickaxe, otherwise the breaking time will increase.
Budding amethyst drops nothing when it is destroyed.
Budding amethyst generates naturally as part of amethyst geodes , replacing 8.3% of the blocks of amethyst in the innermost layer of the geode.
An amethyst bud placed on a budding amethyst (rather than any other block) grows over time, regardless whether it was placed by the player or spawned by the budding amethyst itself. That bud goes through three growth stages – small, medium, and large – before reaching its 4th and final growth stage as an amethyst cluster, which drops amethyst shards when mined.
In Java Edition , the below logic can be applied:
As such, the math can be applied as:
(68.27 seconds average for random ticks) × (20% chance of growth for any given single side) × (6 sides) × (4 growth stages) = 68.27×5×6×4 = 8192 seconds average, also 2 hours 16 minutes 32 seconds, also 6.827 in-game days.
In Bedrock Edition a new amethyst bud can also form in flowing water , removing the water block in the process.
Uniquely among other blocks a budding amethyst makes a quiet overlay sound when generally interacted with as well as its block breaking sound when hit with a projectile.
Budding amethyst is destroyed when pushed by a piston . It cannot be pulled by a sticky piston , or slime and honey blocks.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Budding Amethyst" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A block of copper , internally known as a copper block , is a block that oxidizes over time, gaining a verdigris appearance over four stages. They can be prevented from oxidizing by being waxed with honeycombs . Non-oxidized blocks of copper are storage blocks equivalent to nine copper ingots .
Blocks of copper can be mined only with a stone pickaxe or better; otherwise, it drops nothing.
Unwaxed blocks of copper can spawn naturally in a specific area in the trial chambers. Waxed blocks of copper and waxed oxidized copper can also generate naturally in trial chambers .
Blocks of copper can be turned into the respective waxed copper blocks by using a honeycomb item on them. Waxed copper blocks do not oxidize and are identical to the non-waxed version.
Using an axe on a waxed block of copper turns it into the respective non-waxed block of copper. In addition, using an axe on an exposed, weathered, or oxidized block of copper reverts it one stage to a regular, exposed, or weathered copper block respectively.
Scraping with an axe is not possible when holding a shield in the offhand, so that combat is not affected when the player is near waxed or oxidized copper blocks. [1]
Non-waxed blocks of copper are completely deoxidized when struck by lightning, and other non-waxed blocks of copper nearby are deoxidized randomly.
Blocks of copper can be used to store copper ingots in a compact fashion. Exposed, weathered, and oxidized variants cannot be crafted back into copper ingots, but the unoxidized waxed block variant can. Unlike the cut variant, blocks of copper cannot be crafted directly into slabs or stairs without a stonecutter. Stonecutting blocks of copper gives four times more products than typical for stone, and allows slabs and stairs to be obtained. [2]
A block of copper and carved pumpkins or jack o'lanterns are used to build copper golems . The carved pumpkin or jack o'lantern must be placed last, and the golem spawns immediately after placing it.
Non-waxed blocks of copper have four stages of oxidation (including the initial normal state). Lightning bolts and axes can remove the oxidation from blocks of copper. They can be waxed with a honeycomb to prevent the oxidation from progressing.
As the block begins to oxidize (exposed copper), it gets discolored and green spots begin to appear. As the oxidation continues (weathered copper), the block is a green color with brown spots. In the last stage (oxidized copper), the block is teal with several green spots.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Block of Copper" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Deepslate is a stone type found deep underground in the Overworld that functions similarly to regular stone , but takes significantly longer to mine.
Deepslate can only be obtained by mining it using a pickaxe with the Silk Touch enchantment, otherwise it drops cobbled deepslate . If broken with any other tool, it drops nothing. The breaking time for deepslate is twice the time for stone .
Deepslate makes up the majority of the solid blocks generated below Y=0 in the Overworld . Stone is gradually replaced from Y=8 to Y=0 until it is completely replaced by deepslate.
Deepslate generates in great quantities in ancient cities .
On ancient_city/city_center/city_center_2 , a furnace can generate with 24 deepslate inside of it.
Deepslate can be smelted from cobbled deepslate .
If a world generated before Caves & Cliffs : Part II is loaded after the update, the bedrock layer between Y=0 and Y=4 is replaced with deepslate.
Deepslate can be placed in three orientations, similarly to logs . Silverfish can enter and hide in deepslate, creating an infested block .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Deepslate" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Tuff is an ornamental rock , occurring in underground ore blobs below Y=0 and as part of sulfur springs .
Tuff drops as an item if mined by any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Tuff can generate in the Overworld in the form of ore blobs . Tuff attempts to generate 2 times per chunk in blobs of size 0-864, from elevations -64 to 0, in all biomes . Tuff can replace stone , andesite , diorite , granite , and deepslate . Any ore that generates in tuff becomes its deepslate variety.
Additionally, tuff can generate in large ore veins that consist of iron ore and blocks of raw iron below Y=0. It also generates as part of sulfur springs , allowing for deepslate ore variants to be found on the surface if they generate replacing tuff blocks.
Tuff can be crafted into several decorative variants.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Tuff" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Calcite is a block exclusively found in geodes and stony peaks .
Calcite drops as an item if mined by any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Calcite generates naturally as part of the structure of amethyst geodes , between the smooth basalt and block of amethyst layers. It also generates in the stony peaks in strips .
Calcite is used for decoration. It has lower blast resistance and hardness than most other stone-related blocks.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Calcite" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Real life calcite is the most stable form of calcium carbonate and a common mineral.
Smooth basalt is an ornamental rock smelted from basalt or found as part of amethyst geodes and ancient cities .
Smooth basalt drops as an item if mined by any pickaxe . If mined by any other tool, it drops nothing.
Smooth basalt generates naturally as a part of the outer layer of amethyst geodes .
Smooth basalt also generates in ancient cities .
Smooth basalt is a decorative block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Smooth Basalt" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Mud is a block found abundantly in mangrove swamps or created by using a water bottle on any type of dirt block. It can be used for crafting or converted into clay using pointed dripstone .
Mud can be broken by hand and by any tool , but using a shovel speeds up the process.
Mud generates in the mangrove swamp biome. Mud can also generate in trail ruins and in some entrance rooms of trial chambers .
An enderman holding a mud block drops the block upon death.
Using a water bottle on dirt , coarse dirt , or rooted dirt transforms it into mud. This process can be automated using a dispenser .
To turn dirt into mud, the water bottle cannot be used on the bottom face of the block. [1] However, a dispenser can still be used even if it is used on the bottom face.
Mud is not a full block, and as such, it has some unique properties; entities standing on mud sink slightly into it, similar to soul sand . Unlike soul sand, however, mud does not slow the movement speed of mobs or players that walk on it. Falling blocks such as sand also drop as an item when landing on it, and a hopper that is under a mud block can collect items dropped on top of it.
Items on top of mud move alongside it when it is pushed by a piston .
If mud is placed directly above a block that has pointed dripstone underneath, it eventually turns into clay .​ [ more information needed ] This conversion does not happen in the Nether . [2]
Growing an azalea tree converts mud and muddy mangrove roots into rooted dirt , which can be hoed into dirt .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Mud" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Mud bricks are a block obtained by crafting 4 packed mud .
Mud bricks can be obtained by mining it with any pickaxe . When mined using any other tool, it drops nothing.
Mud bricks can be found in trail ruins .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Mud Bricks" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A froglight is a light-emitting block that is obtained when a frog eats a tiny magma cube . It comes in three variants based on the variant of frog that eats the magma cube.
Froglights drop as an item when broken with any tool or by hand. Breaking speed is always the same; no specific tool can break a froglight faster. [1]
A tiny magma cube drops a froglight when it is eaten by a frog . There are three colors of froglight that drop depending on what type of frog eats the magma cube:
Froglights have a smooth texture and can be used as light sources. They emit light level 15, the highest level possible for a light-emitting block. Froglights also melt snow layers within 3 blocks and ice within 4 blocks ( taxicab distance ).
Froglights can be placed in three different orientations, similar to logs , deepslate , and basalt .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Froglight" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An observer is a block that emits a quick redstone pulse from its back whenever its "face" detects that the block , fluid , or air directly in front of it has changed.
An observer requires a pickaxe to be mined. When mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
An observer is placed similarly to a piston . It observes the block that it is placed against. The texture of the detecting side is that of an observing face. As observers can detect the state of other observers, placing two adjacent observers, each watching the other, can make a fast and compact redstone clock.
In Java Edition , an observer detects shape updates coming from the block it's facing. This can involve changes in block states (like crops growing, for example), or the breaking or placing of a block. This makes observers differ from block update detectors in terms of what they can detect.
In Bedrock Edition , an observer acts as a block update detector and detects anything that causes a block update.
The causes and propagation of block updates are different between Java Edition and Bedrock Edition . As a result, each can detect some kinds of changes that the other cannot. See the table below for a comparison.
When it detects something, the observer emits a redstone pulse of strong power at signal strength 15 for 2 game ticks . The pulse can power redstone dust , a redstone comparator , a redstone repeater , or any mechanism component located at its opposite end.
In Java Edition , the pulse is emitted with a delay of 2 game ticks. In Bedrock Edition , it should be delayed by 2 game ticks as well, but it's sometimes delayed by 4 or 6 game ticks due to MCPE-15793 .
Observers also emit a pulse after getting moved by pistons : this enables them to be used in flying machines . In Java Edition , moving an observer while it's not active causes it output a pulse after its usual delay; however, moving an observer that is currently emitting a redstone signal causes it to turn off instead. In Bedrock Edition , an observer that was moved by a piston always outputs immediately.
Observers block light and allow mob spawning on top, do not cut off redstone wire, and cannot conduct redstone power. In Java Edition , they also allow opening chests below and prevent redstone wire placed on it from transmitting a signal downward.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Observer" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A piston is a block capable of pushing most entities and blocks when given a redstone signal.
Some blocks cannot be moved, break when pushed or have other interactions with pistons. A piston can move up to twelve blocks at once.
A piston can be broken using any tool with equal efficiency, and always drops itself. It is faster to break them with a pickaxe . The pickaxe is also the preferred tool for breaking the head when extended. [1]
Pistons are always placed facing toward the player. When powered, the piston's wooden surface (the "head") tries to start extending after a start delay . The extension takes 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds) to finish. When it extends, it pushes at most 12 blocks. The piston makes a sound that can be heard within a 31×31×31 cube centered on the activating piston. Any entities in the path of an extending piston (or any block it might be moving) are pushed along, when possible. If the entities cannot be moved, the block is pushed inside them, suffocating mobs when pushed into their eye height (assuming said block is solid).
When a piston loses power, its head retracts. Like the extension, the retraction starts after a start delay and takes 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds) to finish.
In Java Edition , a piston that is de-powered during the extension process aborts its extension and starts to retract (assuming it can detect the signal change). Any block which was being pushed by that piston continues to move as if the piston was still pushing it.
A piston that pushes a slime block bounces any entity that it displaces in the direction the piston is facing. Entities on top of a moving honey block , or any other moving block,‌ [ BE only ] will also move with it. In addition, when a slime block or a honey block is moved by a piston, any movable block adjacent (not diagonally) to it also moves. See § Sticky blocks for more details.
In Bedrock Edition , blocks that require a support (such as levers) can be placed on the back or sides of a piston without being destroyed when that piston extends. In Java Edition , on the other hand, the majority of blocks that require a support are only safe to place on the back of pistons.
In Bedrock Edition , comparators can read the fullness of containers through pistons, despite them not being conductive .
Pistons can be activated from any side, excluding from the head.
In Bedrock Edition , redstone dust gets automatically redirected toward pistons if placed next to them (except for the head's side).
A piston won't extend or retract immediately when it is activated: this phenomenon is known as "start delay".
In Java Edition , the start delay can be 0 (activation in the same tick) or 1 game tick (0.05 seconds) (activation in the next tick) depending on the game process in which the piston is powered:
In Bedrock Edition , the start delay is fixed at 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds), meaning that the piston starts to extend or retract 2 game ticks after it is activated. Pistons can only activate on the input/consumer redstone tick ( C-tick ).
Pistons can be powered from one block above compared to most redstone components: this property is called quasi-connectivity (QC). With quasi-connectivity, a piston facing up can also be powered from the head's direction, which is otherwise impossible. Due to quasi-connectivity, a piston facing up that has a block of redstone on top of itself can extend but not retract: this happens because after the piston extends, it keeps receiving power from the redstone block.
Quasi-connectivity can be used to make a BUD switch , taking advantage of the fact that a piston powered through QC doesn't always get immediately updated .
When a piston that has a redstone torch attached to it is powered, the redstone torch turns off, and when said piston is depowered, the redstone torch turns back on: this property is called soft inversion . [2] [3] Since soft inversion works even if the piston is being powered indirectly through a block, it can be used to toggle the state of a redstone torch from farther away compared to other powering methods. It's still possible to take advantage of soft inversion even if the piston cannot extend or retract.
Slime and honey blocks are sticky: when either block is moved by a piston, adjacent (non-diagonal) blocks stick to and move with it. [ note 1 ] For example, a slime block sitting on the ground attempts to move the ground block underneath itself, which in turn has to push additional ground blocks in the direction of motion just as if they were being pushed directly by a piston. The same occurs when a sticky block is moved by another adjacent sticky block of the same kind. For example, a 2×2×2 cube of honey blocks may be pushed as a single unit by a piston acting on any of the blocks in the cube. Any block that cannot be moved or can be broken by a piston does not stick to sticky blocks. However, if an adjacent block could be moved but is prevented from being moved by the presence of an immovable block, the sticky block is prevented from moving as well, and the piston does not extend.
Slime and honey blocks do not stick to each other. This allows redstone contraptions to use alternating slime and honey blocks side by side without interfering with each other.
Slime and honey blocks' stickiness is unilateral. They can't be pulled by a non- sticky piston , and they are not moved if an adjacent (non-sticky) block is moved by a piston. The maximum of 12 blocks moved by a piston still applies. For example, a 2×2×3 structure of slime blocks may be pushed by a piston as long as no other movable block is adjacent to it. A piston cannot move itself via a "hook" constructed of sticky blocks, but flying machines can be created with multiple pistons.
Glazed terracotta and the heavy core ‌ [ BE only ] do not stick to adjacent slime or honey blocks, even though they can be pushed by pistons.
Pistons emit vibrations detectable by sculk sensors . A calibrated sculk sensor tuned to signal strength 10 detects piston retraction; strength 11 detects extension; strength 12 detects a block broken by a piston.
Pistons cannot push:
If the requirements for a block to be pushed are not met, the piston will not extend.
Pistons cannot move blocks that require a support block, as they break and drop as an item (when applicable). There are however some exceptions, listed down below.
Pistons have 2 technical blocks that cannot be obtained. These include the piston head and moving piston blocks.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition (piston):
Bedrock Edition (arm):
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The piston block uses following block states:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
In Bedrock Edition , a piston has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Issues relating to "Piston" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sticky piston is a variant of the piston that can additionally pull most blocks when it retracts.
A sticky piston can be broken using any tool with equal efficiency, and always drops itself. In Java Edition , it is faster to break them with a pickaxe . The pickaxe is also the preferred tool for breaking the head when extended. [1]
Three sticky pistons generate as part of each jungle pyramid . Five sticky pistons also generate in each ancient city .
A sticky piston behaves the same way as a normal piston , except when pulling. A sticky piston pulls when it is unpowered .
In Bedrock Edition , the start delay is fixed at 1 redstone tick which is 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds), meaning that the sticky piston starts to extend or retract 1 redstone tick (2 game ticks) after it is activated. Sticky pistons can only activate on the input/consumer redstone tick ( C-tick ).
A sticky piston also pulls the block attached to its head and any blocks attached to the head via slime - or honey blocks , but not any of the other blocks it may have pushed.
A sticky piston cannot pull a falling block .
A sticky piston finishes extending early and starts retracting if it loses power before the extension process is over (assuming it can detect the signal change). If the sticky piston was pushing one or more blocks during the extension, the first block ends up in its final position immediately and all the other blocks continue moving as if they were still being pushed.
This behavior is intended [2] and is referred to as "block dropping" [3] or sometimes "block spitting".
Block dropping only works for blocks that were being pushed by the sticky piston before its extension was canceled—if it wasn't pushing any, the sticky piston attempts to pull blocks as usual once it starts retracting.
With block dropping it's possible to push (but not pull) a waterlogged block without causing the water to disappear. [4]
Sticky pistons have the same limitations for pushing as normal pistons. These limitations also apply for pulling: when a sticky piston is unpowered but cannot pull a block, it retracts without doing so.
The table below lists which blocks can or cannot be pulled.
Sticky pistons have 2 technical blocks that cannot be obtained. These include the piston head and moving piston blocks.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition (piston):
Bedrock Edition (arm):
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The sticky_piston block uses following block states:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
In Bedrock Edition , a sticky piston has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Issues relating to "Sticky Piston" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A redstone repeater is a block that produces a full-strength redstone signal from its front while its back is powered, with four toggleable delay settings. It can also be locked into its current power state by directly powering its side with another repeater or a redstone comparator .
A redstone repeater can be broken instantly using any tool , or without a tool, and drops itself as an item. To remove a redstone repeater, mine it.
A redstone repeater is removed and drops as an item if:
A single redstone repeater is generated naturally in each jungle pyramid .
8-13 redstone repeaters can also generate in ancient cities .
A redstone repeater can be used in four different ways: to "repeat" redstone signals back to full strength, delay signals, prevent signals moving backward, or to "lock" signals in one state.
A repeater can be placed only on top of full blocks (dirt, stone, etc.), on top of upside-down slabs , upside-down stairs , furnaces, and glass. In Bedrock Edition , a repeater can also be placed on fences and stone walls. They can also be placed on some transparent blocks. See Opacity/Placement for more information. To place a repeater, use the Place Block control .
A redstone repeater has a front and back – the arrow on the top points to the repeater's front. A repeater also has two small redstone torches on its top – the color of the torches indicates whether its output is on (dark red when off, bright red when on) and the distance between them indicates the delay the repeater adds to the signal transmission.
A repeater is 0.125 ( 1 ⁄ 8 ) blocks high.
A repeater transmits signals only from its back to its front, but its behavior can be modified from the side (see signal locking , below).
A redstone repeater can be powered by any of the following components at its back:
A redstone repeater can power any of the following components at its front:
A redstone repeater can activate any mechanism component it is facing.
A conductive block powered by a redstone repeater is called "strongly-powered" (as opposed to a conductive block "weakly-powered" by redstone dust). A strongly-powered conductive block can power adjacent redstone dust, as well as other redstone components.
A redstone repeater can "repeat" a redstone signal, boosting it back up to power level 15.
Redstone signals have a maximum power level of 15 and that level drops by 1 for every block of redstone dust the signal travels through. If a signal must travel through more than 15 blocks of redstone dust, a redstone repeater can be used to boost the signal back up to full strength. An extra two blocks of distance can be achieved by placing conductive blocks before and after the repeater.
While redstone repeaters can allow signals to travel great distances, each always adds some delay to the transmission since the minimum amount of delay is 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds).
When initially placed, a redstone repeater has a delay of 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds).
A repeater's delay can be modified by using the Use Item control. Each use increases the repeater's delay by two ticks, to a maximum of eight, then reverting back to two ticks. Longer delays can be made with multiple repeaters – for example, a repeater set to '8' and another to '2' provides a half-second delay (8 × 0.05s + 2 × 0.05s = 0.5s).
A repeater set to a delay of four to eight ticks increases the length of any shorter on-pulse to match the length of the repeater's delay, and suppresses any shorter off-pulse. For example, a repeater set to a 4-tick delay changes a 0-tick ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , 1-tick, 2-tick, or 3-tick on-pulse into a 4-tick on-pulse, and does not allow through any off-pulse shorter than 4 ticks (except for the caveats below). In Java Edition , a repeater set to a delay of two ticks can also extend the length of any 0-tick or 1-tick pulse.
Although a repeater cannot be set to have a delay of zero, in Java Edition , instant repeater circuits are possible (circuits that repeat a signal with no delay).
In Java Edition , when and whether a repeater turns on or off in response to changes in the input signal is affected by scheduled ticks . Upon receiving a block update , an unpowered repeater receiving a signal will schedule a tick to turn on. Immediately before turning on, and subsequently whenever it is updated, the repeater will check whether it is still receiving a signal, and if not, it will schedule a tick to turn off. Once the tick runs, the repeater will only turn off if it is still not receiving a signal, and will otherwise stay on at least until the next scheduled tick, if any. However, only one tick can be scheduled at a time, and any attempt to schedule a tick while one already exists is completely ignored. As a consequence, even a very short off-pulse can cause a repeater to turn off, if it happens to occur at the same time as a previously scheduled tick to turn off. A locked repeater completely ignores all block updates and scheduled ticks.
A redstone repeater acts as a diode – it allows redstone signals through in one direction (unlike redstone dust or conductive blocks that can transmit redstone signals in any direction).
A diode can be used to protect a redstone circuit from redstone signals feeding back into the circuit from its output, or can be used to isolate one part of a circuit from another.
A redstone repeater can be "locked" by another powered redstone repeater facing its side. When locked, the repeater does not change its output (whether powered or unpowered), no matter what the input does. When the side repeater turns back off, the repeater returns to its normal behavior.
A repeater can also be locked by a powered redstone comparator facing its side. This offers additional possibilities for locking signals because a comparator's output can be affected from 3 sides as well as by containers.
If a repeater is locked again too quickly after unlocking (e.g. the lock is controlled by a fast clock circuit), or the lock and the input are changed only on the same tick (e.g. because they're fed by the same clock and both repeaters have the same delay), the repeater does not switch states.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Repeater*" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A redstone comparator is a block that can produce a redstone signal from its front by reading chests , lecterns , copper bulbs , and similar blocks. It can also repeat a signal without changing its strength.
It can also be set to either stop outputting a signal while its side input is receiving a stronger one (front torch off), or output a weaker signal based on its side input's signal strength (front torch on).
A redstone comparator can be broken instantly with any tool , or by hand, and drops itself as an item.
A redstone comparator is removed and dropped as an item if:
If lava flows into a redstone comparator's space, the redstone comparator is destroyed without dropping as an item.
2–9 Redstone comparators generate in ancient cities .
A redstone comparator can be placed on the top of any opaque block with a solid full-height top surface (including top-mode slabs and upside-down stairs ). In Bedrock Edition , a comparator can also be placed on walls and fences . For more information about placement on transparent blocks, see Opacity/Placement .
The redstone comparator has a front and a back — the arrow on the top of the comparator points to the front. When placed, the comparator faces away from the player. The comparator has two miniature redstone torches at the back and one at the front. The back torches turn on when the comparator's output is greater than zero (the arrow on top also turns red). The front torch has two states that can be toggled by using the comparator:
The redstone comparator can take a signal strength input from its rear as well as from both sides. Side inputs are accepted only from redstone dust , block of redstone ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , redstone repeaters , other comparators, and observers in specific scenarios. The redstone comparator's front is its output.
It takes 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds) for signals to move through a redstone comparator, either from the rear or from the sides. This applies to changing signal strengths as well as simply to turning on and off.
Redstone comparators check their power state before their scheduled ticks update. This results in redstone comparators not usually responding to 1-tick fluctuations of power or signal strength — for example, a 1-clock input is treated as always off from the side, and always on from the rear. This happens because the signal changes back to its original state before the redstone comparator checks its input states. However, certain setups such as powering any input with two separate observer pulses at the same time causes a redstone comparator to respond to 2-game-tick pulses.
The redstone comparator has four functions: maintain signal strength, compare signal strength, subtract signal strength, and measure certain block states (primarily the fullness of containers).
A redstone comparator with no powered sides outputs the same signal strength as its rear input, with a 1 redstone tick (= 2 game ticks) delay.
A redstone comparator in comparison mode (front torch down and unpowered) compares its rear input to its two side inputs. If either side input is greater than the rear input, the comparator output turns off. If neither side input is greater than the rear input, the comparator outputs the same signal strength as its rear input.
The formula for calculating the output signal strength is as follows:
output = rear × [ left ≤ rear AND right ≤ rear ]
A redstone comparator in subtraction mode (front torch up and powered) subtracts the signal strength of the greater side input from the signal strength of the rear input.
output = max( rear − max( left , right ), 0)
For example: if the signal strength is 6 at the left input, 7 at the right input and 4 at the rear, the output signal has a strength of max(4 − max(6, 7), 0) = max(4−7, 0) = max(−3, 0) = 0 .
If the signal strength is 9 at the rear, 2 at the right input and 5 at the left input, the output signal has a strength of max(9 − max(2, 5), 0) = max(9−5, 0) = 4 .
A redstone comparator treats certain blocks behind it as power sources and outputs a signal strength proportional to the block's state. The comparator may be separated from the measured block by a comparator-conducting block. These blocks include all conductive blocks, but see below.
The comparator disregards the power level of the intervening block in this configuration.
In Java Edition , if the intervening block is powered to signal strength 15, then the comparator outputs 15 no matter the fullness of the container. [1] This never occurs in Bedrock Edition .
In Bedrock Edition the list of comparator-conducting blocks also includes some non-conductive blocks. This may be useful in contraptions as they do not conduct redstone signals from elsewhere like a regular conductive block would. [2] These blocks are:
A redstone comparator can output a signal indicating how full a container is. (0 for empty, 15 for full, etc.) The table on the right is described more in detail, later in this section.
Note: s means stack.
Containers that can be measured by a comparator include:
Generally speaking, the comparator output signal strength represents the average fullness of the slots, based on how many of that item form a full stack (64, 16, or 1 for non-stackable items). A partially filled bundle counts as a full stack.
The Minimum items for container signal strength table (right) shows the minimum full-stack-equivalent (FSE) to produce different signal strengths from common containers. A full-stack-equivalent quantifies how many normal 64-stackable items are needed to output a corresponding signal strength. The 's' is a constant 64, with the additional amount needed following after.
One may also consider the terms: cumulative-weight or weighted-sum instead of full-stack-equivalent .
Items that stack to a max of 16 ( snowballs , signs , ender pearls , etc.), contribute +4 to the full-stack-equivalent for each unity (count of 1 item). Similarly, items that stack to 1 ( minecart , boat , etc.) contribute +64, and items that stack to 64 contribute +1.
Example 1: 3 ender pearls contribute a 3×4 = 12 full-stack-equivalent .
Example 2: 16 ender pearls and 60 redstone dust contributes a 16×4 + 60×1 = 124 full-stack-equivalent .
Example 3: 1 minecart and 60 redstone dust contributes a 1×64 + 60×1 = 124 full-stack-equivalent .
Example 4: To produce a signal strength of 10 from a hopper, one requires a full-stack-equivalent of at least 3s + 14 = 206 but strictly less than 3s + 37 = 229. This can be done with 3 minecarts, and 14 dirt.
When a comparator measures a large chest or large trapped chest, it measures the entire large chest (54 slots), not just the half directly behind the comparator. in Java Edition , a chest or trapped chest that cannot be opened (either because it has a conductive block or a sitting cat above it) always produces an output of 0 no matter how many items are in the container — shulker boxes can always be measured, even if they cannot open.
signal strength = floor (1 + (( sum of all slots' fullnesses ) ÷ ( number of slots in container )) × 14)
fullness of a slot = ( number of items in slot ) ÷ ( max stack size for this type of item )
1 + ((300 items ÷ 64 items per slot) ÷ 9 slots) × 14 = 8.292, floored is 8
max(9, (3×64÷14) × (9−1)) = 109.714, rounded up is 110
Some non-container blocks can also be measured by a redstone comparator:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A redstone comparator has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Comparator*" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A hopper is a low-capacity storage block that can be used to collect item entities directly above it, as well as to transfer items into and out of other containers. A hopper can be locked with redstone power to stop it from moving items into or out of itself.
A hopper drops itself and its contents if mined with a pickaxe . Using any other item to mine a hopper drops only its contents.
A hopper can be crafted from a chest and 5 iron ingots.
Hoppers generate above barrels in the trial chambers .
A hopper can be used as a container, as a crafting ingredient, and as a redstone component.
A hopper has an "output" tube at its bottom that can face down or sideways and provides a visual indication of which block the hopper is set up to drop its items into, if that block has an inventory. To place a hopper, use the Place Block control while aiming at the surface to which its output should face (Hoppers do not orient themselves automatically). To place a hopper directly on the face of an already interactable block, the player can sneak while placing the hopper. Attempting to place a hopper aimed on the bottom face of a block instead faces downward. With some blocks, such as the furnace and brewing stand , the hopper has multiple uses. A hopper does not change direction after placement, and it is not attached to the container it faces; the container can be removed or replaced, and the hopper remains unchanged.
In Java Edition , hoppers cannot be moved by pistons . Despite not having a full top surface, a few redstone components that require a support can be placed on top of hoppers (but not on their sides).
A hopper can be used as a container and has 5 slots of inventory space.
To open the hopper GUI, use it. To move items between the hopper inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the hopper GUI is open, drag or shift-click the items. To exit the hopper GUI, use the Esc key, B button or circle button, depending on the device.
By default, the GUI of a hopper is labeled "Item Hopper". A hopper's GUI label can be changed by naming the hopper in an anvil before placing it, or, in Java Edition , by using the data command (for example, to label a hopper at (0,64,0) "Steve's Hopper", use /data merge block 0 64 0 {CustomName:'"Steve's Hopper"'} ).
In Java Edition , a hopper's GUI can be "locked" (or subsequently unlocked) by setting the hopper's lock tag with the data command. If a hopper's lock tag is not blank, the hopper cannot be accessed except by players holding an item that matches the item predicate in the lock tag. For example, to lock a hopper at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "Steve's Key" can access the hopper, use /data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"Steve's Key"}}} .
While a hopper is neither powered by a redstone signal nor in cooldown , it operates with three functions:
A hopper first attempts to push any items inside it. Afterward, it checks if the block above it is a type of container. If so, it attempts to pull from it. Otherwise, the hopper attempts to collect item entities. Notably, hoppers can push to and pull from other hoppers, forming hopper pipes or hopper chains , which allow transporting items across several blocks and are further discussed below.
When a hopper receives a redstone signal, all three of its functions stop: in this situation the hopper is locked/disabled . Once the hopper loses power, its activity resumes as it goes back to being unlocked/enabled . [1] Depowering a locked hopper does not affect its cooldown time. Therefore, unlocking a hopper that was not already in cooldown results in it starting to pull, push, or collect items as soon as it gets ticked.
In Bedrock Edition , the hoppers can only be locked on the input/consume redstone tick (C-tick).
While a locked hopper does not push or pull/collect items, it may still receive items from droppers , crafters and other hoppers, and may have its items pulled out by another hopper beneath it. Hence, the item flow in a horizontal hopper pipe may be stopped by locking just one of the hoppers, but stopping a vertical hopper pipe requires locking two adjacent hoppers at the same time, such that both the pushing of the top one and the pulling of the bottom one are stopped.
A hopper does not output any redstone signals by itself, but its fullness can be read using a redstone comparator , which needs to be placed next to it and facing away from it. An empty hopper outputs a signal strength of 0 and a completely full hopper outputs a signal strength of 15. Notably, a single stackable item (16 or 64) outputs a signal strength of 1 and a single non-stackable item outputs a signal strength of 3. A table with all signal strengths can be found in the comparator article.
In Java Edition , if the hopper being read is part of a horizontal hopper pipe, the comparator can individually read each item passing through the chain, because items are pushed through the hoppers one by one at a speed that is manageable by the comparator. If there is an uninterrupted stream of items, the comparator does not switch off in between items. On the other hand, in a vertical hopper pipe, some of the hoppers may never produce a reading above 0, even with a continuous stream of items, because pushes and pulls both occur in the same game tick: The hoppers' items get pulled out a single game tick after they're pushed in and this isn't measurable by a comparator, because comparators need measurements lasting at least 2 game ticks (0.1 seconds, barring lag) to produce a reading.
A hopper collects items dropped inside itself or on top of it if the space above the hopper is occupied by a non-storage block. Items dropped inside the hopper are picked up regardless of the block above.
In Java Edition , items are only collected if the block above is not a full block or is in the block tag #does_not_block_hoppers ( bee nests and beehives by default).
In Bedrock Edition , items are also collected from full blocks, a situation that might come from items rising up through solid blocks or being summoned .
Items are gathered from the entire 1 block space above the hopper, meaning that items sitting on partial blocks such as soul sand directly above a hopper can be collected. [2]
Collected items are placed in the leftmost empty slot of a hopper's inventory. If there are multiple dropped items above the hopper, the hopper collects them in the order they entered the chunk containing the hopper. This can be observed by pushing items onto a locked hopper from an adjacent chunk: regardless of which item lands first, the hopper will always collect the one that entered the chunk the earliest.
Hoppers usually check for dropped items every game tick and they can collect items even before they are picked up by a player or destroyed by lava . After collecting an item (or stack of items), a hopper enters a cooldown period that lasts 8 game ticks (0.4 seconds, barring lag).
Hoppers collect groups of items all at once rather than collecting them as single items one at a time. As a result, hoppers can collect item entities much faster than they can pull items from a container. Pulling from a moving minecart with chest or minecart with hopper is even slower, since the minecart is not always above the hopper.
A hopper with a storage container above it (such as a furnace , chest , dropper , composter , or another hopper) attempts to pull from the container instead of checking for floating items above it, and hence can not collect dropped items. A hopper always tries to push or pull items using the leftmost available slot. When a hopper is removing items from a chest, the items disappear from left to right. Similarly, when filling up a chest, the chest fills up from left to right. Hoppers prioritize pulling from the first slot of a container over pulling into the first hopper slot. If a hopper has stone in its first slot and nothing in its second while the container it is pulling from has chicken in its first slot but stone in the second, the hopper pulls the chicken from the first slot of the container into its empty second slot. However, if the hopper is unable to pull the chicken, such as if all slots are filled with stone, the hopper pulls the stone from the second slot of the container instead. Similarly, hoppers prioritize pushing from their first slot over pushing into the first slot of a container. If a hopper has stone in its first slot and chicken in its second while the container it is pushing to has chicken in its first slot but stone in the second, the hopper pushes stone from its first slot into the second slot of the container.
In Java Edition , the checks done by a hopper while pulling generally require less processing than the checks done by a hopper attempting collection. Therefore, a chain of hoppers topped with composters, storage containers, or full blocks (keep in mind that full blocks do not prevent hoppers from checking if there are minecarts with chests or minecarts with hoppers above them) rather than air/non-full blocks has better performance and lower potential for processing lag. [3] The performance improvement achieved is correlated with the number of storage slots the container has - for example a dropper will have better performance than a barrel. The single best block for performance is the composter. [3] In Bedrock Edition , a chain of hoppers with air or non-container blocks on top has better performance than a chain of hoppers topped by container blocks. [4] This may be because, even though hoppers with containers on top do not check for items, they do check for hopper-minecarts and chest-minecarts to pull from, and that involves scanning the chunk entity list. [5]
Push then pull
Item pushes and pulls are processed in the same game tick, but pushes are processed before pulls. In the schematic, the empty hopper first pulls an item from chest A as it cannot push anything into chest B. After the cooldown, the hopper first pushes its item into chest B before pulling another item from chest A, both pushing and pulling in the same tick, and the process repeats. The hopper stops pulling when A is empty, and stops pushing when B becomes full.
After pulling and/or pushing items, a hopper enters an 8 game tick (0.4 seconds, barring lag) cooldown period (a transfer rate of 2.5 items per second, barring lag).
In Bedrock Edition , when an item is pushed into an empty hopper (a player manually placing the item in the hopper does not count), it starts an 8-game-tick cooldown period. In Java Edition , when an item is pushed into an empty hopper, the cooldown of that hopper lasts 7 game ticks (0.35 seconds, barring lag) instead. Pushing an item into a hopper that isn't empty does not trigger its cooldown.
Normally, hoppers do not attempt to collect items when a solid block is placed on top of them. However, hoppers attempt to collect items when bee nests and beehives are placed on top of them. This allows hoppers to collect honeycomb when bee nests and beehives are sheared by the player or a dispenser. If a dropper or dispenser ejects an item into a bee nest or beehive above a hopper, the hopper usually collects the item. If a dispenser or dropper ejects an item into a different solid block above a hopper, the item phases through the solid block and is not collected by the hopper.
Some containers interact with hoppers in specific ways:
Despite being composed almost entirely of iron, hoppers do not use iron sounds. [6]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition : None
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A hopper has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Hopper" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A dispenser is a low-capacity storage block that can fire projectiles , use certain items and tools, as well as place certain blocks, fluids, or entities when given a redstone signal. Items that do not have unique dispenser functions are instead ejected into the world like a dropper .
Dispensers can be mined using a pickaxe , in which case it drops itself and its contents. If mined without a pickaxe, the dispenser drops only its contents.
Jungle temples
Trial chambers
A dispenser can be used as a container and as a redstone component that dispenses items when activated, with results varying based on the item dispensed. For example, the trap in a jungle pyramid incorporates arrows inside a dispenser, which shoots the arrows when activated.
To place a dispenser, use it while pointing at a surface adjacent to the space it should occupy. A dispenser can be placed so that its output faces any direction, always facing the direction of the player placing it.
In Java Edition , dispensers cannot be moved by pistons .
A dispenser has 9 slots of inventory space.
To open the dispenser GUI, use the Use Item control . To move items between the dispenser inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the dispenser GUI is open, drag or shift-click the items. To exit the dispenser GUI, use the Esc control.
By default, the GUI of a dispenser is labeled "Dispenser". A dispenser's GUI label can be changed by naming the dispenser in an anvil before placing it, or by using the / data command.‌ [ Java Edition only ] For example, to label a dispenser at (0,64,0) "My Dispenser", use / data merge block 0 64 0 {CustomName:'"My Dispenser"'}
A dispenser can be "locked" by setting the dispenser's lock tag. If a dispenser's lock tag is not blank, the dispenser cannot be accessed except by players holding an item that matches the item predicate in the lock tag. A dispenser's lock tag can be set or unset with the data command. For example, to lock a dispenser at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "My Key" can access the dispenser, use / data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"My Key"}}}
A dispenser can be used to dispense a randomly selected item out of the ones it contains.
A dispenser is a redstone mechanism and can be activated by:
Some of these methods can activate a dispenser (in the sense of triggering an action) without powering the dispenser (in the sense of whether the dispenser can power adjacent redstone dust, etc.).
In addition to the methods above, a dispenser can also be activated by quasi-connectivity .‌ [ Java Edition only ] A dispenser becomes activated if one of the methods above would activate a mechanism component in the block above the dispenser, even if there is no mechanism component there (even if the block above the dispenser is air or a non-conductive block), but only when the dispenser receives a block update (including a redstone update within two blocks of the dispenser).
A dispenser has a 4 game tick (0.2 seconds, barring lag) delay between activation and a response. During this time, additional inputs are ignored.
In Bedrock Edition , the dispenser can only activate on the input/consumer redstone tick ( C-tick ).
When activated, a dispenser waits for 4 game ticks (0.2 seconds, barring lag) and then ejects one item. The dispenser does not continue to eject items while activated; ejection occurs only on the initial activation (the rising edge of an input signal). To eject multiple items, repeatedly activate the dispenser with a clock circuit .
If multiple slots are occupied by items, a random occupied slot is chosen for ejection. The slot is chosen when an item is ejected, not when the dispenser is initially activated; thus it is possible to move items into or out of a dispenser between its activation and item dispensing.
The effects of being activated vary with the type of ejected item. Most items are thrown in the direction the dispenser is facing as if a player had used the Drop Item control . Other items behave differently when dispensed, as described in the table below. In general, a dispenser cannot place blocks into the world, aside for a few exceptions, such as shulker boxes, powder snow, and certain cases where the placed block would do something unusual. When a dispenser uses an item that has durability , such as flint and steel and shears , the item's durability decreases.
Unlike a dropper , a dispenser can't push items inside another container.
In Java Edition , zombies can only be equipped if they are capable of picking up items. [2]
Placement of wither skulls fails under water, even though withers can be manually built under water.
Shear any bogged , sheep , snow golem , mooshroom , or sulfur cube that is in the block in front of it. Harvests honeycombs from a full beehive or bee nest .
When a dispenser dispenses an item, it emits a clicking sound (unless the item is a projectile or a spawn egg ) and a smoke particle . If it is empty when activated, it emits a slightly higher-pitched click. The noise of a dispenser can be heard up to 16 blocks away.
A dispenser is a conductive block, so powering it directly can cause adjacent mechanism components (including other dispensers) to activate as well.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A dispenser has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dispenser" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Some other blocks can also be used to move items:
A dropper is a low-capacity storage block that can eject its contents into the world or into other containers when given a redstone signal.
A dropper can be mined with a pickaxe , in which case it drops itself and its contents. If mined without a pickaxe, the dropper drops only its contents.
A dropper can be used as a container or as a redstone component to move items.
A dropper can be placed so that its output faces in any direction, including up or down. When placed, the dropper's output faces toward the player. With default textures, the droppers output side looks like a face when positioned for horizontal output. Otherwise, the output side has a square hole.
In Java Edition , droppers cannot be moved by pistons .
A dropper has 9 slots of inventory space.
To open the dropper GUI, use the Use Item control . To move items between the dropper inventory and the player inventory or hotbar while the dropper GUI is open, drag or shift-click the items. To exit the dropper GUI, use the Esc control.
By default, the GUI of a dropper is labeled "Dropper". A dropper's GUI label can be changed by naming the dropper in an anvil before placing it. In Java Edition , droppers can also be renamed by using the / data command (for example, to label a dropper at (0,64,0) "Alice's Dropper", use / data merge block 0 64 0 {CustomName:'"Alice's Dropper"'} ).
In Java Edition , a dropper can be "locked" (or subsequently unlocked) by setting the dropper's lock tag with the / data command. If a dropper's lock tag is not blank, the dropper cannot be accessed except by players holding an item that matches the item predicate in the lock tag. For example, to lock a dropper at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "Alice's Key" can access the dropper, use / data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"Alice's Key"}}} .
A dropper can be used to eject items, or push items into another container.
Some containers interact with droppers in specific ways:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A dropper has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dropper" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
TNT is an explosive block that can be lit by a redstone signal, flint and steel , stray fire , flaming projectile or explosion.
When lit, TNT becomes primed TNT , a gravity-affected entity that produces a damaging, block-destroying explosion , usually after four seconds. Blocks destroyed by TNT always drop their usual items as if mined by a player .
TNT can be broken instantly with any tool or by hand. Primed TNT cannot be broken as it is an entity , but it can be removed with the / kill command .
Nine TNT blocks generate naturally in each desert pyramid .
Two TNT blocks flank a trapped chest in one secret woodland mansion room.
An enderman holding a block of TNT drops the block upon death.
TNT blocks can be activated by:
When activated, a TNT block is replaced with an entity called primed TNT that creates an explosion after an amount of time has passed. Primed TNT is affected by gravity, and can be pushed by flowing water , lava , pistons , and explosions . In Java Edition , spear attacks (both jab and charge attacks) can also horizontally push primed TNT, which is more effective with the Knockback enchantment.
The amount of time before primed TNT explodes depends on how the TNT was activated:
The TNT block has a display name of "TNT" in the inventory; however, it also has an in-game name of "tnt" when used in commands such as / setblock . The primed TNT entity has a display name of "primed TNT" in chat, but also has an in-game name of "tnt" when used in commands such as / summon .
Primed TNT has a data tag called fuse that acts as a countdown timer, and stores the number of game ticks until the primed TNT explodes. The timer decreases by 1 every game tick, and the Primed TNT explodes when it reaches 0. When summoned by activating a TNT block or commands, fuse is set to 80 by default, but can be modified using commands.
When TNT is activated, the primed TNT entity is placed offset from the bottom center of the TNT block position by [+0.5, +0.0, +0.5], and given an initial velocity of 0.2 blocks per tick upward, and 0.02 blocks per tick in a random direction. When the primed TNT explodes, the explosion is located at 0.06125 blocks above the entity's position (at 0.98 ⁄ 16 block height). Primed TNT creates explosions with a power of 4, which can break most blocks. Blocks destroyed by primed TNT always drop items as if mined by a player using a correct, unenchanted tool (or an empty hand if the correct tool would be shears ).
The explosion deals a maximum of 84.5 HP × 42.25 damage on Hard difficulty, 56 HP × 28 damage on Normal difficulty, 29 HP × 14.5 damage on Easy difficulty and high knockback to a player exposed to the explosion. TNT explosions do not damage players in Peaceful difficulty.
Primed TNT's texture blinks, alternating every 0.5 seconds between the TNT block's texture, and a copy of it that has been brightened to near-white. The effect is dynamic and the brightened texture can't be found in the assets.
A primed TNT is teleported to the respective dimensions when entering a Nether portal or End portal , maintaining its fuse, direction and speed. In Java Edition , after teleporting through a nether portal, the primed TNT cannot destroy Nether portal blocks .
TNT usually cannot be used to destroy blocks underwater; however, there are some circumstances in Java Edition where TNT can be made to destroy blocks underwater.
In Java Edition , if TNT is activated while a gravity-affected block (e.g. sand , or gravel ) is on top of it, the block falls through the primed TNT entity, and when the primed TNT explodes, it can break blocks.
If TNT is placed on top of a block whose height is less than a full block (e.g. soul sand , honey block , etc.) and activated, the primed TNT can destroy blocks. If TNT is activated while on top of a soul sand block, a bubble column forms, but the primed TNT does not float away. Primed TNT is affected by bubble columns if summoned farther up the column, or if pushed into the bubble column by a piston.
In Bedrock Edition , TNT is unable to destroy blocks underwater by any of the above methods: falling blocks partially displace primed TNT, and primed TNT is always pushed upward by a soul sand's bubble column. There is however a variation of TNT called underwater TNT (When Education Edition option is enabled) that can destroy blocks underwater.
A TNT block is considered a redstone mechanism component , and is activated when it receives a redstone signal.
TNT is a non-conductive (transparent) block and cannot be powered . When a TNT block receives a redstone signal, it does not activate any other adjacent TNT blocks via redstone, but any adjacent TNT blocks are activated by the explosion.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition : Primed TNT use the Friendly Mobs sound category for entity-dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
TNT has entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "TNT" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sculk sensor is a sculk block that detects vibrations caused by nearby actions and events and emits a redstone signal in response. Player -caused vibrations can also trigger nearby sculk shriekers . Sneaking prevents the creation of vibrations while moving, and wool can be used to block or prevent them. Placing an amethyst block next to a sculk sensor allows it to "relay" detected vibrations to other sculk sensors.
A sculk sensor can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. It drops itself only if mined with any tool enchanted with Silk Touch . If mined with a non-Silk Touch tool, it drops 5 experience instead.
Sculk sensors generate within the deep dark biome and ancient cities .
A sculk catalyst has a 9% chance of generating a sculk sensor on top of a sculk block.
Sculk sensors can be used to craft calibrated sculk sensors .
A sculk sensor has a light level of 1. When active, it changes to a lighter block state without a change to the light level.
Sculk sensors detect vibrations in an 8 block spherical radius around it. Vibrations are caused by various events, such as players and mobs walking, placing or breaking blocks (except wool or carpet ), gliding with elytra , items falling on the ground, shooting projectiles, a piston extending or a wet wolf shaking itself off. Vibrations have an associated frequency; different events create vibrations of different frequencies.
When a vibration is made within the range of a sculk sensor, a signal travels from the vibration source to the sensor at a speed of one block per game tick (20 blocks per second). When the signal arrives, the sensor is activated for 30 game ticks (1.5 seconds). The sensor cannot detect any other vibrations while activated or while a signal is traveling to it.
Sculk sensors have a cooldown period of 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds) after being placed or after deactivating. During this cooldown period, they cannot detect vibrations. This prevents a sensor from reactivating when a contraption it is powering (such as a piston) becomes unpowered.
Sculk sensors don't detect vibrations from other sculk sources or the warden in Java Edition .
Sneaking While sneaking , a player is not detected while performing most actions corresponding to vibration frequencies 1, 2, or 3, such as moving, hitting the ground without taking damage, interacting with items, and shooting projectiles (although the projectile itself creates a vibration when it hits the ground).
Wool occlusion Wool and carpets have a special interaction with sculk sensors. If a wool block is placed between a sensor and a vibration source, the sensor is not able to detect the placed wool nor vibrations behind it. Specifically, if the ray joining the cube centers of the sensor block and the vibration source passes through any wool blocks, the vibration is occluded. If the ray passes diagonally through the edge between two blocks, either one or the other block may occlude it but not both. Sculk sensors are not able to detect footsteps or dropped items on wool or carpet, placement or breaking of wool or carpet, or wool or carpets dropping as items .
Sculk shriekers Sculk sensors pass on the vibrations made by players to sculk shriekers within 8 blocks of the sensor. For example, an item dropped by a player triggers the shrieker, but an item dropped by a dispenser or from a broken block does not; a player flying around with elytra triggers the shrieker, but a bat flying around does not. Alarms can be blocked by wool placed in between the sensor and shrieker, similar to how wool can block vibrations from reaching the sensor itself.
Sculk sensors emit a redstone signal in every direction (including top and bottom) when they are activated. The redstone signal emitted from the bottom powers the block below the sensor strongly, whereas in all other directions it appears as though the sensor itself is the strongly powered block.
The strength of the redstone signal is inversely proportional to the distance the vibration signal traveled – the closer the vibration is to the sculk sensor, the stronger the redstone signal is, so it reaches the maximum redstone signal strength when the vibration is directly on top of the sensor. The distance is measured from the block at which the vibration occurred; moving within a block never results in a different strength.
redstone_strength = max(1, 15 - floor(15 / detection_range * distance))
Each vibration in the game falls under a certain frequency value. This value can be measured with a comparator . With the right contraption utilizing a calibrated sculk sensor or sculk sensor , the player could detect if a certain action has occurred or is occurring nearby.
When a sculk sensor detects a vibration, any adjacent block of amethyst re-emits a vibration of the same frequency that the sculk sensor detected, which can be detected by other sensors and calibrated sculk sensors .
The following occurrences, despite presumably causing physical motion, do not produce vibrations and therefore cannot be detected:
The following cases have been confirmed to be intentional:
Sculk sensors are immovable. Pistons cannot push them, and sticky pistons cannot push or pull them. Slime blocks and honey blocks do not stick to sculk sensors and have no effect whether the slime block or honey block is being pushed or pulled.
A sculk sensor is silent if waterlogged . It can still detect vibration, but does not produce sounds itself.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A sculk sensor has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sculk Sensor" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A calibrated sculk sensor is a craftable type of sculk sensor that functions similarly, but detects vibrations more quickly and from further away. Its amethyst -covered input side can be powered to make the sensor only detect vibrations from specific sources, depending on the signal strength used. Placing an amethyst block next to a sculk sensor allows it to "relay" detected vibrations to other sculk sensors.
A calibrated sculk sensor can be broken with any tool, but hoes are the quickest. It drops itself only if mined with any tool enchanted with Silk Touch . If mined with a non-Silk Touch tool, it drops 5 experience instead.
When a calibrated sculk sensor detects a vibration, it is activated and emits redstone signal in every direction (including top and bottom), except the side with the amethyst stripe. The redstone signal emitted from the bottom will strongly power the block below the sensor, whereas in all other directions (excluding the side with the amethyst stripe) it is as though the sensor itself is the strongly powered block.
The calibrated sculk sensor is different from the basic sculk sensor in multiple ways:
When a calibrated sculk sensor detects a vibration, it is activated for 10 game ticks, then has a 10 game tick cooldown before it can detect another vibration. This means that a calibrated sculk sensor can detect a vibration once every 1.05 seconds, as opposed to once every 2.05 seconds for a regular sculk sensor. (Plus 0.05 for every block of distance from the vibration past the first.)
A calibrated sculk sensor can activate a sculk shrieker and cause a warden to spawn.
When a redstone signal powers a calibrated sculk sensor on its crystalized side, the sensor is filtered to respond only to vibrations that match the strength of that signal. Every vibration in the game has a frequency associated with it, and every vibration frequency directly matches a specific redstone signal strength. For example, a vibration with a frequency of 5 matches the redstone signal with a strength of 5.
Some events can create multiple vibrations simultaneously. For example, eating most food items creates vibrations of frequency 3 (item interaction) and 8 (entity eats). Hitting the ground and taking fall damage creates vibrations of frequency 2 (hit ground) and 7 (entity damage). Using a redstone signal, the sensor can be filtered to detect either frequency. If no redstone signal is provided, the sensor detects the highest frequency.
Each vibration in the game falls under a certain frequency value. This value can be measured with a comparator . With the right contraption utilizing a calibrated sculk sensor or sculk sensor , the player could detect if a certain action has occurred or is occurring nearby.
Calibrated sculk sensors cannot be moved by pistons or sticky pistons .
When a calibrated sculk sensor detects a vibration, any adjacent block of amethyst re-emits a vibration of the same frequency that the calibrated sculk sensor detected, which can be detected by sculk sensors and other calibrated sculk sensors. If the calibrated sculk sensor is filtered, the block of amethyst re-emits only the vibrations matching the filtered redstone signal strength.
A calibrated sculk sensor is silent if waterlogged . It can still detect vibration, but does not produce sounds itself.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A calibrated sculk sensor has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Calibrated Sculk Sensor" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Redstone dust is a mineral used in crafting , brewing , trimming , and as a placeable wire.
Redstone wire is a non-solid block that can transmit a redstone power signal up to 15 blocks in distance; signal strengths below 15 have reduced distance. Redstone wire can power blocks it is placed on or pointing at.
Redstone dust is immediately destroyed when broken.
Redstone dust is removed and drops as an item if:
Redstone dust drops itself when destroyed.
Redstone ore mined using an iron pickaxe or higher drops 4 or 5 redstone dust (or more with Fortune , averaging at 6 redstone dust with Fortune III). If mined with Silk Touch , the block drops itself instead of redstone dust. When the ore itself is clicked on/touched, it emits a light level of 9 and glows.
15 lengths of redstone dust are naturally generated as part of the trap in each jungle pyramid . 5 lengths of redstone dust can be found in one type of a jail cell room in a woodland mansion . In ancient cities , multiple pieces of redstone dust can be found integrated into circuitry. 1 piece of redstone dust can be found in the "Encounter 4" room in trial chambers .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Redstone dust can be crafted from blocks of redstone .
In Java Edition , when the player has the Hero of the Village status effect, clerics might throw that player a redstone dust as a gift.
Redstone dust is used for brewing , crafting , and in redstone circuits by placing it on the ground to create redstone wire . It can also be used to power redstone components.
The following color palette is shown on the designs on trimmed armor :
When placed in the world, redstone dust becomes a block of redstone wire, which can transmit redstone signal .
Redstone dust can be placed on conductive blocks as well as glowstone , upside-down slabs , glass , upside-down stairs , and hoppers . It can also be placed on some non-conductive blocks; see Opacity/Placement for more information.
Redstone wire configures itself to point toward adjacent redstone power components and transmission component connection points. Redstone wire also configures itself to point toward adjacent redstone wire one block higher or lower – unless there is a conductive block above the lower redstone wire.
If there is only one such adjacent redstone component, redstone wire configures itself into a line pointing both at the neighbor and away from it. If there are two or more such adjacent components, redstone wire connects them in the form of , , , or as needed.
When there are no adjacent components, a single redstone wire configures itself into a plus sign, which can provide power in all four directions. By right-clicking, it can be changed into a dot, which does not provide power to any of the four directions.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Redstone wire does not automatically configure itself to point toward mechanism components ; the only exceptions are the back and side faces of pistons and sticky pistons in Bedrock Edition . If such a configuration is desired, the other neighbors of the redstone wire must be arranged to create it, i.e the redstone dust must be placed in a way that it would be pointed at the block’s location even if it were not there.
When redstone wire is reconfigured after placement, it does not update other redstone components around it of the change unless that reconfiguration also includes a change in power level or another component provides an update. This can create situations where a mechanism component remains activated when it shouldn't, or vice versa, until it receives an update from something else – a "feature" of redstone wire that can be used to make a block update detector .
Redstone wire can transmit power, which can be used to operate mechanism components ( doors , pistons , redstone lamps , etc.). Redstone wire can be "powered" by a number of methods:
The "power level" of redstone dust can vary from 0 to 15. Most power components power-up adjacent redstone dust to power level 15, but a few ( daylight sensors , trapped chests , and weighted pressure plates ) may create a lower power level. Redstone repeaters output power level 15 (when turned on), but redstone comparators may output a lower power level.
Power level drops by 1 for every block of redstone wire it crosses. Thus, redstone wire can transmit power for no more than 15 blocks. To go further, the power level must be re-strengthened – typically with a redstone repeater.
Powered redstone wire on top of, or pointing at, a conductive block provides weak power to the block. A weakly-powered block cannot power other adjacent redstone wire, but can still power redstone repeaters and comparators, and activate adjacent mechanism components. Non-conductive blocks cannot be powered.
When redstone wire is unpowered, it appears dark red. When powered, it becomes bright red at power level 15, fading to darker shades with decreasing power. Powered redstone wire also produces "dust" particles of the same color.
While redstone wire always provides power to the directions it points into, it can still point into directions in which it cannot give power. If redstone wire comes in the form of a cross, the player can right-click to toggle it between a cross and dot. A redstone dot does not power anything adjacent to it, but powers the block under it.
Redstone dust is destroyed when a piston tries to push it. It can't be pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Redstone", "Redstone dust", or "Redstone wire" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
All renders can be viewed in-game in the debug world .
A redstone torch is a non-solid block that produces a full-strength redstone signal on all sides adjacent to it, except for its attached block, and can power the block directly above it. It deactivates while the block it is attached to is powered.
In Java Edition , the inactive redstone torch cannot be obtained as an item without commands. In Bedrock Edition , it can be obtained via inventory editing. [1]
A redstone torch can be broken instantly using any tool , or without a tool, and drops itself as an item.
A redstone torch is removed and drops as an item if:
When lava flows into a redstone torch's space, it will be destroyed without dropping anything.
A single redstone torch is found inside each igloo . In ancient cities , multiple redstone torches can be found integrated into circuitry.
Redstone torches give off a light level of 7.
When the Render Dragon Features for Creators experiment is enabled in Minecraft Preview , the top part of redstone torches emits colored point lighting with #c32c1f . This causes the bottom part of the torch to render a small square shadow, and the surrounding texture to render diagonal lines of shadow in all directions.
Redstone torches can be used to craft activator rails , redstone comparators , and redstone repeaters .
Redstone torches can be used to power blocks and transmission components such as redstone dust , activate mechanism components such as pistons , or invert redstone signals like a NOT Gate .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition : Floor:
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Redstone Torch" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A daylight detector is a block that outputs a redstone signal based on its exposure to sky light .
Using the detector inverts it, causing it instead to output a constant strong signal that weakens from exposure to sky light.
Daylight detectors can be mined by hand or with any tool, but axes are the quickest. Inverted daylight detectors cannot be collected directly; they drop a regular daylight detector. In Bedrock Edition , the inverted detector may be obtained by using pick block in Creative mode [1] , or via inventory editing or add-ons.
A daylight detector can be used to produce redstone power in proportion to the daylight cycle .
A daylight detector is 0.375 blocks high (3/8ths of a block). Daylight detectors can be moved by pistons .‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] Water and lava flow around daylight detectors without affecting them.
In the Overworld , a daylight detector's outputted signal strength depends on the time of day, the weather, the detector's exposure to the sky, and the internal sky light level .
(8,660 Gtk/7:13)
(8,660 Gtk/7:13)
(8,660 Gtk/7:13)
(450 Gtk/22.5 sec)
(450 Gtk/22.5 sec)
(467 Gtk/23.35 sec)
(466 Gtk/23.3 sec)
(612 Gtk/30.6 sec)
(611 Gtk/30.55 sec)
J: (287 Gtk/14.35 sec) B: (288 Gtk/14.4 sec)
(287 Gtk/14.35 sec)
(432 Gtk/21.6 sec)
J: (433 Gtk/21.65 sec) B: (432 Gtk/21.6 sec)
(408 Gtk/20.4 sec)
(409 Gtk/20.45 sec)
J: (226 Gtk/11.3 sec) B: (225 Gtk/11.25 sec)
(225 Gtk/11.25 sec)
(272 Gtk/13.6 sec)
J: (271 Gtk/13.55 sec) B: (272 Gtk/13.6 sec)
(347 Gtk/17.35 sec)
(347 Gtk/17.35 sec)
(232 Gtk/11.6 sec)
(233 Gtk/11.65 sec)
(240 Gtk/12 sec)
(240 Gtk/12 sec)
(240 Gtk/12 sec)
J: (358 Gtk/17.9 sec) B: (357 Gtk/17.85 sec)
(237 Gtk/11.85 sec)
(237 Gtk/11.85 sec)
(245 Gtk/12.25 sec)
(245 Gtk/12.25 sec)
(381 Gtk/19.05 sec)
J:(380 Gtk/19 sec) B: (381 Gtk/19.05 sec)
(192 Gtk/9.6 sec)
(191 Gtk/9.55 sec)
(386 Gtk/19.3 sec)
(402 Gtk/20.1 sec)
(597 Gtk/29.85 sec)
(597 Gtk/29.85 sec)
(205 Gtk/10.25 sec)
(487 Gtk/24.35 sec)
(487 Gtk/24.35 sec)
(695 Gtk/34.75 sec)
(695 Gtk/34.75 sec)
(368/18.4 sec)
J: (369 Gtk/18.45 sec) B: (368 Gtk/18.4 sec)
J: (546 Gtk/27.3 sec) B: (547 Gtk/27.35 sec)
(547 Gtk/27.35 sec)
(872 Gtk/43.6 sec)
(873 Gtk/43.65 sec)
(397 Gtk/19.85 sec)
J: (397 Gtk/19.85 sec) B: (398 Gtk/19.9 sec)
J: (639 Gtk/31.95 sec) B: (638 Gtk/31.6 sec)
(639 Gtk/31.95 sec)
(1,333 Gtk/1:06.65 sec)
(1,332 Gtk/1:06.6 sec)
(437 Gtk/21.85 sec)
(437 Gtk/21.85 sec)
(805 Gtk/40.25 sec)
J: (805 Gtk/40.25 sec) B: (804 Gtk/40.2 sec)
(4115 Gtk/3:25)
(493 Gtk/24.65 sec)
(492 Gtk/24.6 sec)
(1,232 Gtk/1:01.6)
J: (1,232 Gtk/1:01.6) B: (1,232 Gtk/1:01.6)
(578 Gtk/28.9 sec)
(578 Gtk/28.9 sec)
J:(3,410 Gtk/2:50) B: (3,783 Gtk/3:9.15)
(730 Gtk/36.5 sec)
(730 Gtk/36.5 sec)
(1,118 Gtk/55.9 sec)
(1,119 Gtk/55.95 sec)
(3,410 Gtk/2:50)
A non-inverted daylight detector never produces a signal in the Nether and, in Bedrock Edition , the End . In Java Edition , daylight detectors always produces a maximum signal strength of 15 from exposure to the End dimension's sky, as the End's internal sky light level never changes.
Using a daylight detector inverts it. However, the output of the inverted detector is not a simple inversion of the daylight detector's output; it uses a much simpler algorithm that depends on the internal sky light level . Specifically, it outputs a signal strength of 15 minus the current internal sky light level, where values over 15 or below 0 are taken as 15 or 0 respectively. This means that, in the Overworld, an inverted daylight detector actually outputs a strength of 11 at midnight when the weather is clear, if it has line of sight with the sky. The effects of shade are applied before inverting, so shade increases the signal strength when it is not already full, and prevents it from reaching zero. Completely blocking an inverted daylight detector from exposure to the sky causes it to emit a signal strength of 15 at all times of day.
in Java Edition , inverted daylight detectors in the Nether always produce a signal strength of 15; in the End, they work similarly to in the Overworld. in Bedrock Edition , inverted daylight detectors in the Nether or End never produce a signal under any circumstance.
The cells on inverted daylight detectors are emissive if Vibrant Visuals is enabled.
Daylight detectors can be used as a fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A daylight detector has a block entity associated with it which stores only its entity ID and position (the minimum data for a block entity). Although the daylight detector's block entity stores no additional data, the block entity ensures that the daylight detector is updated every game tick.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Daylight Sensor" or "Daylight Detector" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A tripwire hook is a block used to create a tripwire circuit, which requires two hooks and a straight horizontal line of 1-40 string . Both hooks in a valid circuit emit a redstone signal and power their attached blocks while any of the string is being touched by an entity , or if any string is broken without using shears .
Tripwire hooks can be broken instantly using any tool, or without a tool.
A tripwire hook is also removed and drops itself as an item if:
A tripwire hook is destroyed without dropping itself as an item if lava flows into its space.
Four tripwire hooks are generated naturally in each jungle pyramid . Several tripwire hooks can generate inside trial chambers next to dispensers as traps.
Tripwire hooks can be obtained as a "junk" item from fishing .
Tripwire hooks can be used as crafting ingredients or as redstone circuit components.
A tripwire hook can be used to detect mobs, items, and other entities over a large area.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Tripwire" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A target is a block that produces a temporary redstone signal when hit by a projectile . Unlike most other conductive blocks, it also redirects adjacent redstone dust toward it.
Targets can be mined using any tool or by hand, but using a hoe is the fastest way to break it.
In ancient cities , a single target can be found integrated into circuitry within a secret room at the city center.
Targets emit a redstone signal when hit by projectiles . The closer a projectile is to the center of the block , the stronger the redstone signal that is produced.
The following projectiles can activate a target block:
When struck by most projectiles, the target emits redstone power for 8 game ticks (0.4 seconds). Arrows and tridents instead cause the target to emit power for 20 game ticks (1 second), similar to stone buttons . A target can be hit with any of the projectiles mentioned above.
The strength of the signal depends on how close the projectile is to the center of the block, from 1 to 15.
In Java Edition , the target changes its power state when hit, meaning that an observer can detect if the target has been hit and has produced a redstone signal. [2]
Being a power source, a target redirects adjacent redstone wires to point to itself. As targets are also conductive , this property can be used to compact redstone circuits.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Target" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A crafter is a low-capacity storage block that can use its contents to craft items when given a redstone signal, ejecting the results into the world or into a container it is facing. Its inventory slots can be individually locked so hoppers and similar blocks cannot fill them, while not affecting crafting recipes .
Crafters can be mined with anything, but pickaxes are the quickest.
In Java Edition , crafters cannot be moved by pistons .
A crafter has nine slots of inventory space, arranged in a 3-by-3 grid like a crafting table . Its GUI can be accessed by using it.
A slot can be enabled or disabled, which can be toggled by clicking on it when empty. Disabled slots cannot have items put in them.
Hoppers , droppers and other crafters interact with crafters by inserting items into its inventory. Hoppers can remove ingredients as well. When an item is added:
Hoppers and droppers can interact with all sides of the crafter, and added items follow the rules described above.
When a crafter receives a redstone signal, it waits for 4 game ticks (0.2 seconds) before ejecting one crafted item using the ingredients from the nine inventory slots. The crafted items are subsequently ejected from the front of the crafter. If the front of a crafter is facing a container (including another crafter), the crafted items are transferred into the container. If the container it is facing is full, or the item cannot be inserted into the container, the crafter ejects the item instead. Crafters interact with containers similar to droppers . If a recipe has byproducts (e.g. empty bottles for honey blocks or empty buckets for cake) those are ejected after the crafted item.
For shaped recipes, the position of the items in the inventory matters. Because disabled slots prevent items from entering the slot, crafters can be used to craft any item in the game automatically without any input from the player, using a series of hoppers and/or droppers and the correct configuration of disabled slots for the recipe.
A hopper placed below a crafter collects the ingredients from the crafting grid, not the resulting item.
In Java Edition , unlike dispensers and droppers , crafters aren't affected by quasi-connectivity . [2]
Comparators can emit a redstone signal when reading from a crafter. The signal strength is equal to the number of crafting slots that are either disabled or occupied by an item. [3] The stack size of the item has no effect on the comparators output signal e.g. having 1 stick in a slot vs having 64 sticks in that same slot both output the same comparator signal. An empty crafter with no disabled slots does not output any signal through a comparator. A crafter with every slot being disabled or containing an item (of any stack size) outputs a signal strength of nine through a comparator.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A crafter has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Crafter" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A beacon is a block that can be placed in view of the sky , on top of a pyramid made of valuable mineral blocks, to activate it. Once active, it projects a beam upward and can be set to provide constant status effects to all players in a radius around it. A beacon's range and available effects depend on the size of its pyramid base, between one and four layers.
A beacon can be mined successfully by hand or with any tool . When destroyed by an explosion , the block always drops as an item .
When "activated", beacon blocks provide two unique functions:
Additionally, in Bedrock Edition beacons can also be waterlogged .
In order to activate a beacon, the beacon must meet the following requirements:
The type of block used is purely cosmetic, having no effect on the pyramid's power level or the range and strength of the status effect . A mixture of blocks of different types can also be used in any orientation, so long as they form a pyramid structure, like the ones listed below.
Status effect range can be improved by increasing the pyramid power level (see chart below). At level 4, the pyramid gives the option to increase the primary effect's strength to Level II in the beacon's GUI.
Pyramids are the structures required to activate beacons. There are four possible pyramid heights. More pyramid levels make more powers available in a wider affected vicinity. The type of mineral block used to build the pyramid is entirely cosmetic and has no functional effect. Several different block types can be mixed without affecting functionality. If the pyramid is damaged so that the beacon deactivates, the previously-set powers resume their effects upon reactivation when the pyramid is repaired. This applies to piston -altered pyramids as well.
Multiple beacons can make use of the same specific mineral blocks below them. Combined pyramids do not need to be symmetrical. The image to the right shows a 6-beacon (2 by 3) pyramid. It requires a total of 244 mineral blocks, with a base layer of 10 by 11.
A vertical beam appears from a beacon if the beacon is activated, extending from the beacon block, up to height 2048. Beacon beams cannot go through most blocks, but can go through bedrock (to allow beacons to be used in the Nether ), end portal frames , and variants of glass. [verify]
Horizontally, the beam is visible from any loaded chunk, which can be up to 512 blocks in Java Edition or 2048 blocks in Bedrock Edition .
The color of the beam may be changed by placing stained glass , stained glass panes , hardened stained glass ,‌ [ BE & edu only ] hardened stained glass panes ,‌ [ BE & edu only ] anywhere above the beacon block, with glass panes and full glass blocks having the same effect. Placing multiple colored glass blocks anywhere above the beam causes the colors to blend. The first or bottom most glass block sets the beam color, while each additional block sets the color by averaging the red, green, and blue components of the current beam color and the block's color. The color values are the same as those for the corresponding dye .
If c → is an RGB vector, [ note 1 ] the resulting beam color can be found as C → = 1 2 n ( c 0 → + ∑ i = 1 n 2 i − 1 c i → ) where c i → is the sequence of glass color RGB vectors ( c 0 → corresponds to the lowest block and c n → to the highest one).
Once the beacon is emitting a beam, it can then be fed one iron ingot , gold ingot , emerald , diamond , or netherite ingot to select the status effects given to players within range of the beacon. This is done through the beacon's GUI, displayed by pressing use while looking at the beacon block. It doesn't matter which of the items is fed into the beacon.
In the GUI, the player places the item to be fed in the empty slot and clicks an effect from the "Primary Power" section on the left. If the beacon is sitting on a 4-level pyramid, the "Secondary Power" section on the right also becomes active. The player can then choose either to turn on the Regeneration power in addition to the Primary Power or to raise the primary power to Level II. The user clicks the "Done" button (green checkmark), the item is consumed, and the power(s) become activated, with the outline of the effect on the HUD being blue. To change the beacon's powers, this process must be followed again, consuming another ingot or gem.
If the pyramid is broken, effects deactivate or weaken depending on the level of the pyramid that is no longer complete. Upon restoration of the pyramid, the originally selected power returns without the need to spend another item. If a smaller pyramid is upgraded, the effect range increases to that of the new pyramid without the need of reactivating it, however upgrading to level 4 does not modify the effect power (to increase the power, the player must use the beacon's GUI).
The five primary powers are:
The secondary powers only available with a 4-level pyramid are:
Every 4 seconds, the selected powers are applied with a duration of 9 seconds, plus 2 seconds per pyramid level, to all players in range. Thus, when powers are changed or a player travels outside the area of effect, the powers persist for 5–9 seconds, or 13–17 seconds with a full pyramid.
The effects of a beacon constitutes within a cuboid region, which reaches downward and out to each side at a range determined by the size of the pyramid base (see table below), and upward a distance of that range plus the current dimension's height limit (e.g. 319 in the Overworld).
The effect duration from the beacon is also determined by the size of the pyramid base (Pyramid size × 2 + 9).
The range of the beacon effect is limited by the simulation distance. As such, on simulation distance of 4 with a level 4 pyramid, the effect does not reach the chunks on the corners of the beacon range.
The distance from the player to the beacon block does not affect the intensity of the status effect.
Beacon pyramid effects in Java Edition :
Beacon pyramid effects in Bedrock Edition :
Beacon blocks can function as light sources, emitting a light level 15. Like other light sources, they melt snow and ice . A beacon produces this light even when it doesn't emit a beam.
Beacons cannot be pushed nor pulled by pistons or sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A beacon has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Beacon" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A conduit is a block that can be placed underwater and surrounded by prismarine to activate it. Once active, it empowers nearby players touching water or rain , prevents them from drowning , and attacks wet monsters .
A conduit drops as an item when broken with any tool or by hand, but a pickaxe is the fastest way to break it.
Like other rare blocks such as beacons and shulker boxes , it always drops when destroyed by an explosion .
When activated, conduits give the " Conduit Power " effect to all players in contact with rain or water , within a spherical range of 32-96 blocks. The effect has the same benefits as Water Breathing , Night Vision , and Haste , but does not stack with them. The effect is "ambient", which means that the effect in the HUD has a blue border, similar to effects from beacons . Fully-constructed conduits also damage any hostile mobs, like drowned , guardians , and elder guardians , within a range of 8 blocks of the conduit. Conduits can be activated in any biome and at any height or depth.
To activate, a conduit needs to be in the center of a 3×3×3 volume of water (26 source blocks, flowing water, and/or waterlogged blocks, with the conduit also waterlogged in the center), which must be enclosed within an activation frame. The frame can be built out of blocks in three 5×5 open squares centered on the conduit, one around each axis. Only prismarine , dark prismarine , prismarine bricks , and sea lantern blocks in the frame contribute to activation. A minimum of 16 blocks are required and produce an effective range of 32 blocks. Prismarine-type slabs (including double slabs), stairs , and walls cannot be used to activate the conduit. Any blocks (of any type) that are not part of the activation frame itself but are in the 5×5×5 outer shell likewise have no effect. Once activated, removing any blocks from the conduit (frame blocks) deactivates the conduit. [ note 1 ]
The effective radius of the conduit is 16 blocks for every seven blocks in the frame, though the effect does not activate until the minimum of 16 blocks is included in the build. Thus, it extends to 48 at 21 blocks, 64 at 28 blocks, 80 at 35 blocks, and 96 with a complete frame of 42 blocks. When the frame is complete, the center of the conduit displays an orange iris-like shape.
A complete frame also carries the additional advantage of damaging hostile mobs within 8 blocks of the conduit, dealing 4 HP magic damage every 2 seconds, if they are in contact with water or rain . [ note 2 ]
Monsters that are attacked by the conduit:
Conduits emit a light level of 15, the brightest light level in the game, whether activated or not, and even on land.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
A conduit has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Conduit" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A shulker box is a dyeable block that stores items, and, unlike all other storage blocks, keeps its contents in item form when broken.
All shulker boxes can be mined with any tool or by hand, but using a pickaxe is the most effective. All shulker boxes drop themselves when mined. Unlike other containers, the contents of any shulker box are stored within the dropped item, and not dropped separately. When instantly mined in Creative mode, all shulker boxes drop as an item if there are items stored within, unless / gamerule doTileDrops is set to "false".
When a shulker box is pushed by a piston , it breaks and drops as an item . It cannot be pulled.
All shulker boxes have 27 inventory slots, the same as a barrel , a single chest , or an ender chest .
All shulker boxes keep their items when broken, which can be retrieved when placed again, thus making them portable chests. This is different from other containers, which drop their contained items as item entities when broken. A shulker box drops itself as an item if pushed by pistons or destroyed by an explosion . If, however, the shulker box is in item form, explosions cause it to drop its contents. Unlike most blocks with an inventory, shulker boxes always drop themselves when destroyed by explosions. When a shulker box with items inside is being held‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] or is in a container's inventory, the items are listed on the tooltip as properties.
Any shulker box's items can be fed or removed by a hopper .
All shulker boxes can be stored in all containers except for other shulker boxes and bundles .
When placed by a player, a shulker box faces toward the player placing it. For example, if a shulker box is placed on a floor, a wall or a ceiling, it faces and opens upward, sideways or upside-down, respectively. Dispensers can also be used to place shulker boxes. If there is no block below the space where the shulker box is placed, the shulker box faces identically to the dispenser. Otherwise, the shulker box always faces upward, even if the block has no hitbox such as torches, signs and open fence gates.
Like a chest, all shulker boxes require a transparent area in the direction of its top surface to be opened. That area is exactly half of a full block, and clear of any obstructions, which may be any other hitbox, including blocks, boats and shulkers‌ [ Java Edition only ] , or a redstone conductive block‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . This way, any shulker box can be opened with an upside-down slab or an upper trapdoor on top of it. It is also unique in that when opened, its hitbox expands to 1.5 blocks high/wide, physically pushing entities where it is facing.
By default, the GUI of any shulker box is labeled "Shulker Box", which can be changed by naming it in an anvil or by changing the CustomName tag using the / data command.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
When any shulker box item is destroyed, the contents of the shulker box are dropped as items.
Although the blocks can't be placed in the void , opening a shulker box can make its hitbox expand to the void.
Piglins become hostile toward players who open or mine any shulker box. [1]
Dyed shulker boxes can be undyed using a cauldron . To do this, use a dyed shulker box on a cauldron that has water in it. This causes the cauldron's water level to decrease by 1, and the dyed shulker box loses its dye color.
The fullness of any shulker boxes, even if they cannot be opened, can be read by redstone comparators , unlike chests.
Observers can detect the opening and closing of any shulker boxes.
Shulker boxes are conductive when closed, but not if open. However, opening or closing a shulker box does not update its neighboring blocks, which can be used to create BUD state redstone wires‌ [ JE only ] .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
A shulker box has a block entity associated with it that identifies its contents.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Shulker Box" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An ender chest is a type of chest whose contents are exclusive to each player , and they can be placed and accessed from anywhere in any dimension.
The suitable tool to break an ender chest is a pickaxe .
Ender chest drops 8 obsidian blocks when it's destroyed using a tool without Silk Touch . Ender chest drops itself when it's destroyed using a tool with Silk Touch.
Ender chests naturally generate alongside a chest in certain End city treasure rooms.
Ender chests can be opened by pressing the use control. If a solid block is placed above an ender chest, it cannot be opened.
Ender chests can be used like normal chests , except all ender chests in the world are interconnected, including in different dimensions. The ender chest's inventory is also separate for each player; consequently, items stored in an ender chest cannot be seen or taken by other players. Items stored inside of an ender chest remain even if the player dies. If an ender chest is destroyed, the items inside it are not dropped and can be retrieved again by accessing or placing another ender chest. Because of this player-specific property, ender chests are useful on multiplayer servers to secure valuable items.
Donkeys, mules, and llamas cannot be equipped with ender chests; they support only normal chests.
Ender chests contain 27 slots for storage and can be placed next to other ender chests without joining; they cannot be combined into double chests. It is possible to greatly increase the space of an ender chest by pairing it with shulker boxes (i.e. filling the shulker boxes with desired items, then placing them inside the ender chest). Placing 27 shulker boxes in the ender chest increases the storage space to 729 slots.
Ender chests do not interact with hoppers , droppers , or comparators .
Despite being made of obsidian , an ender chest is not immune to destruction by the ender dragon . [1]
Ender chests emit a light level of 7.
Piglins become hostile toward players who open or break an ender chest. [2]
Ender chest cannot be pushed by the piston , and cannot be pulled by the sticky piston .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
An ender chest has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The contents of an ender chest are not stored in the block, but in the player-NBT under the tag EnderItems ‌ [ Java Edition only ] / EnderChestInventory ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . Thus ender chests can be viewed as "portals" to a player's 27 additional slots of secure and exclusive inventory, which are not lost on death.
Issues relating to "Ender Chest" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An anvil is a gravity-affected utility block used to rename items, combine enchantments and repair items without losing the enchantments. An anvil has limited durability, and as it is used or dropped too far, gradually becomes a chipped anvil , then a damaged anvil , then breaks and disappears, without dropping anything in return.
The suitable tool to break an anvil is a pickaxe . Anvil needs to be broken using a pickaxe, otherwise the breaking time will increase and the block drops nothing.
Anvil drops itself when it's destroyed.
A damaged anvil generates in the "Forge room" of the woodland mansion and in trail ruins .
A total of 31 iron ingots (including 27 for three blocks of iron ) are required to craft an anvil.
Anvils have two modes to repair items that have a durability rating:
If the items are unable to be combined, a red "X" appears over the arrow pointing to the slot of the resulting item. Also, if the target item is at full durability and the sacrifice does not have any enchantments, the anvil also refuses to combine the items, unless if renaming the item to a valid name.
In addition, the player can rename any item – not just items with durability – by using an anvil.
Repairing with materials works for the most part, but not with all items: in general, repairing works for items with their material in the default name. For example, an anvil can repair an iron pickaxe with materials (iron in this case) while an anvil cannot repair bows or shears except with other bows or shears. Special cases: chain armor can be repaired with iron ingots, turtle shells can be repaired with turtle scutes , maces can be repaired with breeze rods , and elytra can be repaired with phantom membranes . The repair does not need to be complete; one material repairs 1 ⁄ 4 of the item's maximum durability. Repair of an unenchanted item can cost more material than simply crafting a new item or combining damaged items. The exception is armor, which consumes less material at the cost of experience levels.
Repairing with a matching item works for any item with durability including bows, shears and so on. The items must be a matching tool and of a matching material. For example, a golden pickaxe cannot combine with a golden sword or iron pickaxe.
In both cases, the resulting durability is limited to the item's maximum, and there is no discount for "over-repair".
As a subset of repairing one item with another, the anvil can transfer enchantments from the sacrifice to the target. This can have a synergistic effect when both items share identical enchantments, or simply add to each other when they do not. Two Sharpness II swords can be combined to make a Sharpness III sword, for example, or a pickaxe with Efficiency can be combined with one that has Unbreaking. This can produce enchantments and combinations that are not possible with an enchanting table. But even so, some enchantments cannot be combined if they are similar, or contradicting, in terms of what they do. If the target is damaged, the player has to pay for the repair as well as the transfer.
Transferring high-level enchantments is more expensive, and renaming an item has an additional surcharge. The anvil has a limit of 39 levels; beyond that, repairs are refused. This limit is not present in Creative mode.
Every time armor or tools are repaired, the minimum experience cost doubles (e.g., 1 level, 2 levels, 4 levels, 8 levels, etc.).
Any item or stack of items can be renamed at a cost of one level plus any prior-work penalty. If the player is only renaming, the maximum total cost is 39 levels. The maximum length for renaming is 30 characters‌ [ BE only ] or 50 characters‌ [ JE only ] . Renamed items are italicized by default, but formatting codes beginning with § are available in Bedrock Edition .
Some items have special effects when renamed:
Any name changes to items are applied to the item stack component {components:{"minecraft:custom_name":"<name>"}} .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
If the item name field is left blank, or is only whitespace or non-breaking spaces (or a combination of both), the default name for that item is used instead. Also, if the item name is unchanged from its current name (which can occur when renaming an item for the first time and using any of the aforementioned blank parameters), a red "X" appears on top of the arrow in the GUI.
Named items do not stack with unnamed or differently-named items of the same type.
Enchanted books can be used to enchant tools, armor and weapons. Enchanted books themselves can be combined to create higher-tiered books. This makes an anvil an alternative to the enchanting table . Anvils can also apply any enchantment to any item in creative mode.‌ [ Java Edition only ] [2]
When there is no supporting block below an anvil, the anvil falls in the same way sand , gravel , concrete powder , and dragon eggs fall. A placed anvil cannot be pushed or pulled by pistons ,‌ [ Java Edition only ] but a falling anvil can be pushed (though cannot be pulled), as it is an entity . This is different in Bedrock Edition where anvils can be pushed and pulled by pistons. Anvils make a metallic clang sound when they land.
A falling anvil damages any player or mob that it falls on, with a mechanism distinct from suffocation damage caused by other falling blocks such as sand when landing. The damage amount depends on fall distance: 2 HP per block fallen after the first (e.g., an anvil that falls 4 blocks deals 6 HP damage). The damage is capped at 40 HP × 20 , no matter how far the anvil falls. Helmets take twice as much durability damage as other armor pieces and provide a 25% damage reduction to falling anvils. [3] When a player dies by an anvil falling on them, the death message "< player > was squashed by a falling anvil" appears. However, if a player is merely touched by a falling anvil entity, no damage is dealt unless the falling anvil becomes an anvil block in the same block where the player is located.
If an anvil falls onto a block with a solid top surface, but the same block it is in cannot be replaced ( torch , slab , etc.), it breaks and drops as an item .
Like other falling block entities, an anvil drops as an item after falling for more than 600 ticks (30 seconds).
An anvil can be used instead of a crafting table to zoom a map out, to clone a map, or to place a player position marker on a map.
Supplying 8 sheets of paper results in a zoomed-out version of the input map.
Only one copy can be made at a time.
The non-empty input map must be a locator map for the output to be a locator map. An empty locator map is the same as an empty map for this recipe.
Maps crafted with only paper do not show the location marker; to add it, a compass must be added to the map.
With each use, an anvil has a 12% chance to become damaged – degrading one stage at a time, first becoming chipped, then damaged, then eventually destroyed. On average, an anvil survives for 25 uses, although it can also break much earlier or later (the standard deviation is approximately 13.5 anvil uses).
An anvil can also be damaged and destroyed from falling. If it falls from a height greater than one block, the chance of degrading by one stage is 5% × the number of blocks fallen.
The damage state does not affect the anvil's function, but only anvils of the same damage state can stack in inventory.
When an anvil is destroyed, the player automatically leaves the anvil GUI and it disappears.
In creative mode , the anvil functions a little differently than other game modes :
Despite being composed entirely of iron, anvils do not use iron sounds. [4]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Anvil" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A smithing table is a utility block used to apply smithing templates to tools , weapons , and armor . It also serves as a toolsmith 's job site block .
Smithing tables can be broken by hand, but using an axe is faster.
Smithing tables drop themselves when destroyed.
Smithing tables can spawn naturally within toolsmith houses in villages . Smithing tables can also generate in trail ruins .
Regardless of the player 's position during placement, the different textures of the block are always facing in the same position (the textures with the hammers are facing west and east, while the dark grey side is always facing up).
A smithing table is primarily used for upgrading diamond gear to netherite gear and for trimming armor. The smithing interface is accessed by pressing use on a smithing table.
To work at a smithing table, the player must provide a smithing template in the left-most slot, a tool or piece of armor in the central slot, and an augmenting material in the right-most slot. Applying a smithing template costs no experience , and preserves item data such as durability consumption, enchantments , and custom names.
Upgrading to netherite requires a netherite upgrade smithing template, a diamond tool or a piece of diamond armor, and a netherite ingot .
Decorative trims can be applied to any piece of armor, including turtle shells , by using an armor trim smithing template and a trim material . After trimming, the armor will show a decorative pattern corresponding to the smithing template with the color determined by the used material. A preview of this pattern can be seen on an armor stand model, located on the right side of smithing table's GUI.
If a smithing table has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to toolsmith and claim the smithing table as their job site block .
Smithing tables can be used as fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Smithing Table" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A blast furnace is a block that smelts ores and metal items twice as quickly as a furnace , but cannot smelt anything else. It also serves as an armorer 's job site block .
A blast furnace can be picked up using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it does not drop itself.
Blast furnaces drop their contents when broken.
Blast furnaces can generate in any armorer house; these can be found in a village . Blast furnaces can also generate in trail ruins .
Blast furnaces can be pushed by pistons .‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
Blast furnaces are similar to furnaces, but can smelt only raw metal , ore blocks, ancient debris and tools / armor made of iron , gold , chainmail , or copper . Blast furnaces serve as the counterpart to smokers , which are used mainly to cook food faster. Smelting equipment yields one iron, gold or copper nugget from their respective materials. Once an item and a fuel are placed into the blast furnace, the block state changes to lit and the item is smelted twice as fast as a regular furnace. Fuel is also used at double the rate of regular furnaces, so the number of items smelted per fuel stays the same. The product can then be collected by using the output. Like normal furnaces , a hopper can be used to feed items into or collect items from a blast furnace.
If a blast furnace has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to armorer and claim the blast furnace as their job site block .
Blast furnaces emit a light level of 13 when active, similar to normal furnaces .
By default, the interface of a blast furnace is labeled "Blast Furnace", but this name can be customized by naming it in an anvil before placing it, or by changing the CustomName tag using the / data command.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
In Java Edition , a blast furnace can be "locked" by setting its lock tag using the / data command. If a blast furnace's lock tag is not blank, the blast furnace cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item with the same name as the lock tag's text. For example, to lock a blast furnace at (0,64,0) so that the blast furnace cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item named "Blast Furnace Key", use / data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"Blast Furnace Key"}}} .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A blast furnace has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Blast Furnace" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A smoker is a block that cooks food twice as quickly as a furnace , but cannot smelt anything else. It also serves as a butcher 's job site block .
A smoker can be mined and obtained using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it does not drop itself.
Smokers drop their contents when broken.
Smokers can generate in butcher houses in villages .
Smokers cannot be pushed by pistons .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Smokers are used to cook food items twice as fast as a regular furnace , taking only 5 seconds per item instead of 10. It is the counterpart to the blast furnace , which is used to quickly smelt ores, metal tools and armor. When an uncooked food item and a fuel item are placed into the smoker, the block state changes to lit and the item cooks. Fuel is used at double the rate of regular furnaces, so the number of items cooked per fuel stays the same. The product can then be taken out of the output slot in the smoker's interface, or be collected using a hopper .
Smokers cannot cook chorus fruit , as popped chorus fruit is not edible.
If a smoker has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to butcher and claim the smoker as their job site block .
Smokers emit a light level of 13 when active, just like normal furnaces.
By default, the interface of a smoker is labeled "Smoker", but this name can be customized by naming it in an anvil before placing it, or by changing the CustomName tag using the / data command‌ [ Java Edition only ] .
In Java Edition , a smoker can be "locked" by setting its lock tag using the / data command. If a smoker's lock tag is not blank, the smoker cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item with the same name as the lock tag's text. For example, to lock a smoker at (0,64,0) so that the smoker cannot be opened unless the player is holding an item named "Smoker Key", use / data merge block 0 64 0 {lock:{components:{"custom_name":"Smoker Key"}}} .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A smoker has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
For a more in-depth breakdown of changes to textures and models, including a set of renders for each state combination, see /Asset history
Issues relating to "Smoker" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A cartography table is a utility block used for cloning, zooming out, and locking maps . It also serves as a cartographer 's job site block .
A cartography table can be obtained using any tool or by hand, although using an axe is the fastest.
Cartography tables can generate naturally inside cartographer houses in villages . They can also generate in the trail ruins structure.
Regardless of the player's position during placement, the different textures of the block are always facing the same direction (the texture with the globe in the right corner always faces west, while the one with the compass and map faces up).
Cartography tables are used for zooming out, cloning, and locking maps (making them unable to be altered). In Bedrock Edition , they can also be used for adding pointers to maps, creating empty maps, and renaming maps.
Below is a list of brief descriptions of all available functions of the cartography table:
For more detailed information of each of these functions, see Map § Usage .
Zooming out a map always starts with an existing map, not a blank map. Zooming it out makes the map aligned to the grid that would include the area of the original map. To build a set of maps such as for a map wall, a player cannot create several level 0 (base) maps at one location then zoom them out before going out into the world to fill them in; the player must start with a base map created in each area to be covered by the zoomed out map. See more discussion of map alignment at Map .
In Bedrock Edition , the cartography table UI features a text field which can be used to rename a map or empty map. Unlike renaming items at an anvil , this does not cost any experience .
If a cartography table has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager may become a cartographer and claim it as their job site block .
A cartography table can be used as fuel in a furnace , smelting 1.5 items per block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Cartography Table" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A grindstone is a block used to remove all enchantments (except for curses ) from items , refunding some experience orbs . Additionally, it can repair tools , weapons , and armor . It also serves as a weaponsmith 's job site block .
Grindstones can be obtained using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Grindstones naturally generate at village weaponsmiths. Grindstones can also generate in trail ruins .
A grindstone can be oriented in different directions. In Java Edition , it doesn't need a supporting block. In Bedrock Edition , it breaks if unsupported and/or inside of water.
When used , an interface is displayed with two input slots and one output slot.
It resets the repair cost for items.
When one enchanted item is placed in either input slot, a disenchanted copy of the item appears in the output slot. The output item has the same durability for a piece of armor or a tool. If an enchanted book is placed in the input, a normal book appears in the output. Removing the item from the output slot deletes the input item and causes the grindstone to drop some experience . If the input item has a custom name, given by renaming it, the output item will adopt the name.
Placing two tools or pieces of armor (enchanted or not) of the same type in the input slots causes a non-enchanted item of the same type to appear in the output slot. The output item has the same durability as what the player would get from using the item repair crafting recipe if the 2 input items were unenchanted. This means the output durability is the sum of the durabilities of the two input items, plus 5% of the maximum durability of the output item (rounded down), capped so it does not exceed the maximum durability of the output item. Both input items are deleted in this process of disenchanting them and repairing them. If either input item was enchanted, then removing the output item drops some experience . The output item has the same armor trim (if any) and name (if any) as the input item in the top slot.
As with all non-enchanted items, the output item has no prior work penalty , even if it is cursed. Disenchanting an item in the grindstone cannot remove a curse , and cannot remove an item's custom name.
If the action is not applicable (e.g. only one non-enchanted item, or the two inputs are different items), the arrow displays a red cross like that of an anvil and no item appears in the output slot.
The amount of experience dropped by the grindstone is a uniformly distributed pseudorandom number between 50% and 100% (rounded up) of all the non-curse enchantments' minimum modified enchantment levels combined. For example, Sharpness V on average gives 35 XP, because that is 75% of 45. The following table shows the ranges of possible obtained XP from each enchantment and level.
If a grindstone has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to weaponsmith and claim the grindstone as their job site block .
Grindstones cannot be pushed by pistons or pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
For a more in-depth breakdown of changes to textures and models, including a set of renders for each state combination, see /Asset history
Issues relating to "Grindstone" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A loom is a block used to apply customizable and layerable designs to banners using dyes . Some designs require banner patterns to apply. It also serves as a shepherd 's job site block .
A loom can be mined using any tool or by hand, but axes are the quickest. It always drops as an item.
Looms can be found in village shepherd houses. Looms can also generate in trail ruins .
Using on a loom opens its interface. It has three slots for a banner , a dye , and an optional banner pattern item. When a banner is put in, a list of patterns appears in the center part. Ten patterns require the following banner patterns: Flower Charge, Creeper Charge, Skull Charge, Thing, Snout, Globe, Field Masoned, Bordure Indented, Flow, and Guster. Putting a banner pattern in its respective slot makes the loom show only that pattern.
Selecting a pattern or using a banner pattern on the list shows the preview of the banner after applying, if a dye is present. To finish, the player must take the banner in the slot beneath the preview. The original banner and the dye disappear from their respective slots, but the banner pattern is not consumed.
If a loom has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to shepherd and claim the loom as their job site block .
A loom can be used as fuel in a furnace to smelt 1.5 items.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Loom" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A stonecutter is a block used to easily craft many stone and copper blocks, and is cheaper than normal crafting for stairs and copper variants. It is also a job site block for mason villagers .
A stonecutter can be mined using any pickaxe . If mined without a pickaxe, it drops nothing.
Stonecutters can generate inside mason houses in villages .
The stonecutter can be used as an alternative to the crafting table to craft most stone -related blocks . All of its recipes require just one ingredient and produce one product (in varying quantities). It allows skipping steps to craft certain blocks; for example, a stone block can be directly turned into chiseled stone bricks , something that requires multiple steps when crafting . It can also be used to cut brick related blocks , such as resin bricks .
Unique to the stonecutter is the ability to cut stone into cobblestone and its slab, stairs, and wall variants, and deepslate into cobbled deepslate , polished deepslate , deepslate bricks , deepslate tiles , and their slab, stairs, and wall variants.
Stonecutting is also more efficient than crafting for certain recipes. Crafting stairs is more efficient with a stonecutter than a crafting table, as 6 full blocks are crafted into 4 stairs, while stonecutter yields 1 stair per full block. The recipe for cut copper is even more efficient: with stonecutting, 1 block of copper turns into 4 blocks of cut copper, allowing the amount of copper blocks to be quadrupled.
The GUI contains a block selection menu that is empty. The menu is populated with blocks that can be crafted from that particular material, only if a block is inserted into its input.
If a stonecutter has not been claimed by a villager , any nearby unemployed villager has a chance to change their profession to a mason and claim the stonecutter as their job site block .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Stonecutter" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Elytra are endgame equipment that can be found exclusively in End ships , which are located in the outer islands of the End . While worn in the chest armor slot, they allow for gliding by pressing jump while midair. Firework rockets can be used for propulsion while gliding.
Elytra are discovered in End cities in an item frame in the treasure room of the End ship . A shulker guards the elytra and the ship's two loot chests.
Elytra are equipped in the chestplate slot, either by placing the item directly in the slot, by pressing use item while held in hand , or by firing a point-blank dispenser at a target. They are gray in color by default but adopt the design of any cape the player is wearing. They maintain their in-world texture design even when they're broken or enchanted .
Smithing templates are not able to be applied to elytra as they are not classified as armor .
To fly, the player must press the jump key while in mid-air (i.e., while jumping or falling), causing the elytra to spread apart like a beetle's wings. In flight, the player controls movement direction by turning (moving the aim point) as normal. To adjust pitch, the player moves the aim point upward and downward. Losing altitude increases speed, and gaining altitude decreases speed. Firework rockets can be used to propel the player in the direction they are facing at a speed of 35.5 blocks per second. Additionally, speed is quickly lost from sharp changes in direction.
The player can take fall damage when landing at an angle deeper than approximately 50°.​ [ more information needed ] Players also take kinetic damage ( fly_into_wall damage type ) when colliding with a block at a high enough speed. When a player dies this way, they receive the death message " <player> experienced kinetic energy ". Note that colliding with a horizontal surface does not cause this type of damage, so the player takes no damage when flying into a ceiling. The amount of damage caused by a collision is determined by the formula:
damage = 10 × ( change in horizontal velocity ) − 3
A safe and simple cruise with the highest travel distance can be achieved by aiming directly at the horizon while at the glide's altitude limit. The player's speed is slow enough to allow them time to do other things during a long flight, like sort out their inventory.
A player stops gliding when colliding with a ladder , as well as with all types of vines in Bedrock Edition . Touching water also stops flight in Bedrock Edition . In Bedrock Edition , flight can be cancelled midair by pressing the jump key.
In Bedrock Edition , a player in Creative mode or with the "mayfly" ability can alternatively hold the jump key to fly up while gliding with elytra. Double-pressing the jump key enters regular Creative flight instead.
Elytra have a minimum speed of about 7.2 m/s (obtained by gliding with a strong upward pitch of 30°). A player in flight who drops to 0 speed quickly accelerates back up to at least this minimum. The player can increase speed by choosing to descend faster, but afterward, they typically do not regain nearly as much altitude. In the real world, drag increases with speed and slows an aircraft; Minecraft also mimics this.
Sharp turns are a fast way to lose speed. Quicker turns cause greater losses, while gentle movements have small effects. Making a hairpin turn can be used for making high-speed landings safe as well as for precise landings on small targets like rooftops. The player should aim to glide just above the target then immediately reverse direction right over the target, making adjustments as necessary.
With the right technique [1] , it is possible to achieve infinite flight until the elytra breaks. First, start from at least 50 blocks above the ground, though around 80 blocks up is ideal. Fly down with a pitch between 32–33° to build up speed until the player lose about 60-70 blocks of altitude. Then, immediately pitch up to about -50°, and slowly pitch down by +0.5° per tick (+10° per second) until reaching 32° again, and repeat. If done correctly, the player can gain 3 blocks of altitude per cycle, though it may be possible to gain up to 10 blocks of altitude per cycle on average. [2] ​ [ more information needed ]
The lowest rate of altitude loss without changing pitch is about 1.5 m/s, obtained by gliding at the with a slight upward pitch of about 12° to 15°.
The player can achieve the best possible glide ratio obtainable without changing pitch by aiming directly at the horizon (0°). This ratio is about 10.06 blocks traveled horizontally per 1 block of starting altitude, not including the time and altitude required to build up speed.
Slow Falling potions greatly decrease the player's vertical and horizontal velocity when flying with elytra. Although this greatly decreases speed, it does not reduce the rate of durability loss of elytra. The Feather Falling enchantment does not affect elytra speed and does not reduce damage from colliding with blocks with elytra.
It is possible to calculate the glide range by dividing the altitude by the tangent of the glide angle (altitude/tan(glide angle)). For example, a player who glides from an altitude of 64 blocks above ground with a glide angle of 15° can glide for 237 blocks (ignoring terrain), since floor(64 / tan(15)) is 237.
Trying for too high a pitch reduces the player's lift. At a pitch of 30° above the horizon, the player has the lowest possible airspeed of 7.2 m/s. Above that, the player might be considered to be in a stall. Increasing the pitch gets closer to a free-fall, and stalled flight at 60° is enough to cause fall damage. Stalling at 90° is a true free-fall.
Recovering from a stall is done by readjusting to any safe pitch as quickly as the player likes. This can be done by pivoting to look at the horizon.
Firework rockets can be used for propulsion during flight by placing it in either hand and using . Using a firework rocket while gliding makes the player move in the direction they're facing at 33.5 blocks per second, for a time dependent on the rocket's flight duration. If any entities are leashed to the player, they instantly detach from the player when they use a firework rocket.
If the rocket is equipped with firework stars , it explodes at the end of its flight, inflicting damage based on the number of stars.
It is possible to gain altitude during powered flight, making it possible to glide for extreme distances.
Durability decreases by one point each second when gliding. A pair of elytra has 432 durability, allowing 7 minutes and 12 seconds of gliding time without enchantments, providing more than 10,000 blocks of transport distance. It is possible to apply the Unbreaking enchantment using an anvil and an enchanted book , which affects the elytra, in the same way it does to tools . Unbreaking III increases elytra's flight time to about four seconds per durability point, a total of 28 minutes and 48 seconds.
When the durability reaches 1, elytra stop working until they are repaired, adopting a tattered texture in the inventory. The damage ends at durability 1, so they can never fully break.
The usage of firework rockets doesn't decrease the elytra's durability.
A pair of elytra can be repaired in an anvil by adding phantom membranes , with each membrane restoring 25% of the elytra's durability (108 points). Two pairs of elytra can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the elytra's enchantments .
Elytra cannot be enchanted on the enchanting table, but on an anvil it can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Elytra" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A totem of undying is an item that can prevent players or mobs from dying when they take fatal damage. It is dropped by evokers , which spawn in woodland mansions and raids .
Evokers always drop one totem of undying upon death, which is not affected by Looting .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
If a player or a mob is holding a totem of undying in the off-hand or main hand slot and receives otherwise fatal damage , the totem prevents their death . The totem of undying must be held in the user's hand for it to work — it does not work if it is in the hotbar , unless selected. Totems of undying prevent a game over in Hardcore mode in the same way they prevent a death in Easy , Normal , and Hard mode.
A totem can be used only once, and disappears when the effect is activated. It does not prevent death caused by void damage or the / kill command. In Java Edition , it also does not prevent death caused by an arrow of harming if the arrow kills the holder with just the arrow 's physical damage , as the arrow's Instant Damage effect is applied after the totem has activated, effectively killing the player a second time. [1]
When a totem of undying is activated, it restores 1 HP , removes all existing status effects and grants several positive status effects:
When activated, multiple green and yellow particles are displayed around the player that held the totem. A screen effect also plays, showing the totem hovering in front of the player 's screen, similar to the animation seen when a player receives the Raid Omen effect or the Hero of the Village effect in Bedrock Edition , or enters the same area as an elder guardian .
Any mob that can hold a totem of undying (in a hand or in the mouth) is revived if killed while it is holding the totem. The totem functions exactly as it does with players, although undead mobs are not affected by the Regeneration effect.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Totem of Undying" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A golden apple is a food item that bestows beneficial effects when consumed ( Absorption and Regeneration ) and is also used to cure a zombie villager under the Weakness effect into a normal villager .
On the base of ancient_city/city_center/city_center_2 , a single golden apple is contained in the chest . Eating it at that location unlocks the piston doors to the redstone labs beneath.
Golden apples cannot be enchanted into enchanted golden apples .
To eat a golden apple, press and hold use while it is selected in the hotbar. It restores 4 ( ) points of hunger and 9.6 hunger saturation .
Unlike most foods, golden apples can be eaten even if the hunger bar is full.
The golden apple provides:
In Bedrock Edition , eating multiple golden apples in a row causes the Absorption effect to stack, up to 16 HP × 8 points of absorption health. [1]
A golden apple and a splash potion of Weakness can be used to convert a zombie villager into a regular villager .
Golden apples can be used for improving the chances of taming a horse by 10%, for breeding , leading and healing horses, and for speeding up the growth of baby horses by 4 minutes. In Java Edition , due to a bug, skeleton horses (in their hostile state; being ridden by skeletons ) can also be fed golden apples. [2]
Piglins run toward any golden apple item on the ground and inspect it for 6 seconds in Java Edition or 8 seconds in Bedrock Edition [3] before putting it in their inventory. However, piglins do not eat golden apples (or any food ).
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Golden Apple" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A trident is a weapon that can be used to perform melee attacks , or be thrown as a projectile that is not slowed down by water . It cannot be crafted, and is only obtainable rarely from vaults or trident-wielding drowned .
6.25% of naturally-spawned drowned spawn with a trident of random durability as their natural weapon. When a drowned with a trident is killed by a player or a tamed wolf , it has a 8.5% chance in Java Edition or a 25% chance in Bedrock Edition of dropping the trident. This chance is increased by 1% with each level of Looting .
Zombies converted to drowned never spawn with tridents. In Java Edition drowned generated by reinforcements can spawn with a trident. A trident held by a drowned has a chance to be enchanted . The Loyalty , Impaling , and Channeling enchantments function the same, while Riptide has no effect for the drowned.
Tridents thrown onto the ground by a player can be picked up; however, tridents thrown by drowned cannot be picked up, similar to arrows shot by skeletons and other arrow-firing mobs.
Only the owner of a trident thrown in Creative mode or enchanted with Loyalty can pick it up; other players in Creative and players in Survival mode, including its owner, cannot pick up a trident thrown in Creative.
Pressing attack while holding a trident deals damage to both mobs and players. Tridents deal 9 HP melee damage and, in Java Edition , have an attack speed of 1.1. Upon damaging a mob or player, the trident's durability decreases by 1. The trident's melee attack does not have any special attack mechanics that are unique to it, unlike all other melee weapons . [ note 3 ]
Pressing and holding use while holding a trident charges it. When released at full charge, the trident is thrown and deals damage to any entity it hits. It flies on a ballistic trajectory similar to that of an arrow . If the trident hits a block, it sticks to the block. If it hits an entity, it bounces off the entity and lands nearby. It is also blocked by shields and can be retrieved once it lands on the ground. Thrown tridents can trigger wooden buttons , wooden pressure plates , and target blocks. A trident can be thrown at a chorus flower or pointed dripstone to break it, which causes the block to be dropped as its respective item. Unlike other projectiles, the trident does not slow down when thrown through water or lava.
Tridents take 1 durability damage when thrown, regardless of whether they hit an entity or not. Tridents with 1 durability or less remaining cannot be thrown. [3] In Java Edition , tridents despawn after 60 seconds if they are not picked up, just like arrows . [4] In Bedrock Edition , thrown tridents do not despawn. When thrown at the ender dragon while it is perched, they are deflected and lit on fire, in the same way as arrows.
In Java Edition , thrown tridents only damage one entity. [5] In Bedrock Edition , a trident can damage multiple entities as long as it touches a solid block before damaging the next entity; for example, a piston can move a trident into a mob. [6] Subsequent hits from the same throw still count as player damage, meaning that mobs drop experience and Looting can be used, but the trident does not lose additional durability.
In Bedrock Edition and Java Edition Combat Test 4 , tridents can be shot by dispensers regardless of enchantment.
In Java Edition , tridents have an attack speed of 1.1 (0.909 seconds), and have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , tridents have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
The projectile motion of a thrown trident is dependent on the angle the user is facing, as well as the user's movement speed.
deg Unreachable 1 Direct hit
A drowned holding a trident throws tridents at its target every 1.5 seconds, dealing 9 HP damage in Normal difficulty . A drowned can throw unlimited tridents, and these tridents cannot be picked up by the player .
A villager can be converted into a zombie villager if it is killed by a trident thrown by a drowned. The chance of conversion is 0% on Easy difficulty , 50% on Normal, and 100% on Hard.
In Bedrock Edition , a drowned can use the trident's melee attack if its target is within three blocks. The melee attack deals 9 HP damage.
A drowned's trident can be enchanted . The Loyalty, Impaling and Channeling enchantments work the same as they would for a player, while Riptide has no effect for drowned.
A trident can be repaired only by the common procedure of combining with another trident in an anvil . The enchantments of both are preserved, and an extra 5% durability bonus is added.
A trident can receive the following enchantments :
Tridents have exclusive access to the Impaling , Loyalty , Riptide , and Channeling enchantments.
Tridents enchanted with Impaling increase damage against mobs in certain conditions depending on the game version. In Java Edition , the enchantment deals extra damage to all aquatic mobs. In Bedrock Edition , it deals extra damage to players and mobs that are in water or rain. In the Java Edition Combat Tests , it has both of these effects.
Tridents enchanted with Loyalty return to the thrower after hitting an entity‌ [ Java Edition only ] /hitting and bouncing off an entity then hitting a block‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] [7] or directly hitting a block. A Loyalty-enchanted trident fired from a dispenser just sticks to the block it strikes. Higher levels of enchantment result in shorter recovery times. In Java Edition , throwing a trident enchanted with Loyalty into the void destroys it, [8] while in Bedrock Edition it automatically returns to the player. Loyalty-enchanted tridents can take fire damage but still return to the player if thrown in lava . This is especially helpful in the Nether if the player is using the trident instead of a bow . If a trident enchanted with Loyalty attempts to return to a player with no available inventory space, the trident floats near the player until inventory space becomes available.
Tridents enchanted with Riptide launch the player a certain distance and do not leave the player's hand when thrown, with the distance increasing for higher enchantment levels. They can be thrown only if the player is standing in water or if it is raining on the block they are standing on. If the player charges it but walks into a nearby dry area, the charge is canceled. If the player throws a Riptide trident and collides with a mob, the mob takes melee damage (including critical damage if the player is falling). In Java Edition tridents enchanted with Riptide take one durability damage upon throwing and lose an additional 1 durability if it collides with an entity on both editions. Each level of Riptide increases the distance traveled by six blocks. The enchantment at level one launches the player nine blocks, fifteen blocks at level two, and twenty-one blocks at level three. Using Riptide , nearby players or mobs are dealt splash damage within an 8.25×8.25×4.25 cubical area. It stacks with the Impaling enchantment and Strength effect. Critical hits do not increase splash damage, but affect the target.
A trident with the Riptide enchantment can be used to propel a player wearing elytra , but only in rainy weather, during snowy weather in certain biomes [9] or while the player is in a body of water. A Riptide trident can boost the player to speeds as high as 125 blocks per second, [10] much faster than the 33.5 blocks per second speed achievable using firework rockets .
Tridents enchanted with Channeling summon a lightning bolt if there is a thunderstorm, although only upon hitting a mob or player standing in the rain as well as a lightning rod placed in the rain [ JE only] . On Bedrock Edition , lightning is summoned when a trident enchanted with Channeling hits a lightning rod, even in regular rain [ BE only] .
Java Edition : Thrown tridents use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity-dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Tridents have entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Trident" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A bow is a ranged weapon that can fire arrows , tipped arrows , and spectral arrows ‌ [ Java Edition only ] . The damage and range of fired arrows depends on the arrow type, enchantments on the bow, and how long the use button was held before releasing.
Skeletons , strays , bogged , parched and illusioners ‌ [ JE only ] have an 8.5% chance of dropping a normal or enchanted bow on death when killed by a player or a tamed wolf .
The chance of dropping a bow is increased by 1% per level of Looting , allowing up to an 11.5% chance of dropping.
The chance of being enchanted depends on the difficulty level, but the random enchantment level (5–22) does not.
Bows of skeleton horsemen are always enchanted at a random level from 5 to 23. The exact level depends on regional difficulty , as on Easy it is always a level-5 enchantment.
Enchanted bows are obtainable through fishing, with a 0.8% chance per attempt. See fishing for more details. When caught, the bow may be damaged and contain random enchantments equivalent to a level 30 enchantment from an enchanting table , including treasure enchantments like Mending .
Bows can be drawn back by using them. The player must have at least one arrow in their inventory or be in Creative mode in order to use a bow. Arrows inside bundles cannot be used. When drawing a bow, the display zooms in slightly. Charging the bow to critical charge causes it to visually bob up and down, and causes the fired arrow to have a trail of critical hit particles . Releasing the button shoots an arrow . Drawing a bow can be canceled by switching to another hotbar slot while holding use. Arrows shot by bows are blocked by shields.
While the bow is being charged or remains fully charged, the player is forced to move at sneaking speed, unless they are riding a mob, minecart or boat , or flying with elytra . When an arrow hits another player, the player that fired the arrow will hear a high-pitched "ding" sound to indicate the successful shot.‌ [ Java Edition only ] Fired arrows are not affected by the Strength or Weakness effects.
Critical charge is achieved by drawing the bow for 1 second or longer, unlike melee critical hits which are dealt by attacking while falling. Shots at critical charge deal ( 3 x 2 ) + 2 damage, where x is the damage after any enchantments. The listed values below describe maximum damage from a bow with no Power enchantments, assuming the target is at a distance where drag and gravity are negligible. The average damage of a shot at critical charge is around 9, as damage is dealt at a random value between 6 HP and 11 HP × 5.5 , using the formula x and ( 3 x 2 ) + 2 , and it is rare to have minimum or maximum values. The damage dealt can ultimately be less than the maximum damage if the arrow slows down after being shot. The game stores the damage of arrows even in values with a decimal point. For example, it is possible for a critical arrow shot to cause damage values such as 6.4. In this case, the game can round up or down and store the amount for subsequent damage sources. Holding the bow at maximum charge for more than 72000 ticks (1 hour) results in the charge being reset without shooting an arrow.
A few mobs cannot be shot using an arrow, because the arrow either disappears or it gets deflected. This includes:
In Java Edition , bows have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , bows have the following statistics:
The projectile motion of an arrow fired from a bow is dependent on the angle the user is facing, as well as the user's movement speed.
deg Unreachable 1 Direct hit
A bow can be combined with another bow in an anvil , preserving the enchantments of both.
Bows can receive several different enchantments and have a base enchantability of 1. Bow enchantments have no effect on arrow speed or the distance it travels. In Bedrock Edition if a bow is enchanted with any level 1 enchantment, it always gets Power I.
A bow cannot be enchanted with Multishot in survival mode. However, when using commands to apply Multishot, the enchantment behaves as expected, allowing the bow to fire more arrows at once.
A bow can be used as fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per bow in Java Edition or 1 item per bow in Bedrock Edition .
As in real life, a flying arrow in Minecraft is affected by gravity. Its vertical speed is modified by one block downward every second, resulting in a parabolic flight path. An arrow slows down if shot through water, reducing its damage to near zero unless brought back into the air or otherwise given momentum.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Arrows that hit solid blocks become stuck and can be retrieved, unless the arrow was shot by a bow enchanted with Infinity , a player in Creative mode, or a mob.
An arrow shot through lava ignites, giving it the effect of the Flame enchantment, igniting any entity it hits. If not extinguished, the fire inflicts up to 4 HP damage. Although a wither skeleton does not spawn naturally with a bow, it shoots flaming arrows if given a bow using commands.
On impact, an arrow can trigger a wooden pressure plate , target block, wooden button , or tripwire . Arrows cannot trigger stone pressure plates or stone buttons.
The player can choose the type of arrow to shoot based on its location in the inventory. Arrows in the off-hand, or the selected hotbar slot if the bow is in the off-hand, are prioritized first. If there are no arrows in the off-hand or selected hotbar slot then the arrow closest to slot 0 is selected.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Bow" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A crossbow is a ranged weapon that can load and fire arrows , arrow variants, and firework rockets . Holding use will load it and it will remain loaded until it is fired , after which it can be loaded again.
When killed, a pillager has a small chance (8.5%) of dropping a loaded or unloaded crossbow with random durability ; the drop rate increases by 1% per level of Looting : 9.5% with Looting I, 10.5% with Looting II and 11.5% with Looting III. The dropped crossbow can rarely (10% chance) be enchanted at level 5–19 regardless of being enchanted when it spawned .
Piglins have a chance of wielding a crossbow upon spawning, and they also have a small chance (8.5%) of dropping a loaded or unloaded crossbow of random durability when killed; this rate increases by 1% per level of Looting : 9.5% with Looting I, 10.5% with Looting II and 11.5% with Looting III. It can rarely (10% chance) be enchanted at level 5–19 regardless of being enchanted when spawned.
Crossbows are similar to bows , but can be charged in advance for use at any time. They take longer to charge than a bow, are slightly more powerful, and shoot farther with slightly higher accuracy.
Crossbows can be loaded with arrows of any type. Like the bow, arrows shot by crossbows can be blocked by shields . A crossbow enchanted with Piercing fires arrows that ignore blocking shields, allowing them to pass through and still hit their target. Arrows shot from a crossbow enchanted with Piercing can be picked up and used again, creating an effect similar to the bow-exclusive Infinity enchantment. When an arrow hits another player, the player that fired the arrow will hear a high-pitched "ding" sound to indicate the successful shot.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Alternatively, they can be loaded with a firework rocket, which flies in a straight line at 32 m/s and, in Java Edition , explodes on contact with blocks and entities. [2] If the firework rocket has no firework stars, it deals no damage . In order to use a firework rocket with a crossbow, at least one firework rocket must be present in the player's offhand . Using a firework rocket uses 3 durability per shot, and fireworks with higher flight duration travel farther when fired. When a crossbow has the Multishot enchantment, the increased durability usage stacks, resulting in 9 durability being consumed with each shot. Piercing does not work with firework rockets, and firework rocket explosions have a radius of roughly 4 blocks.
A crossbow can first be loaded by using it, which starts charging it. While charging the crossbow, the player moves at sneaking speed. When the crossbow finishes charging, the arrow or firework rocket is then loaded into it and the player’s speed returns to normal. At this point, the crossbow must be used a second time to fire its projectile. Shooting a loaded crossbow does not delay any of the player's current actions like sprinting or swimming . Both arrows and firework rockets launched by crossbows are not augmented by the Strength effect.
In Java Edition , continuing to hold use after firing a crossbow causes it to begin recharging again. In Bedrock Edition , continuing to hold use after firing a crossbow does not cause it to begin recharging, as the input must be released and then inputed again. There is also a small delay after fully charging a crossbow where it cannot be fired despite being fully charged, and a similar delay after firing a crossbow where it cannot be recharged again. [3] These bugs cause crossbows to effectively charge and fire slower than in Java Edition .
A loaded crossbow keeps its projectile when placed in another inventory slot or into an item frame without the projectile being unloaded or fired. A loaded crossbow also remains charged after repairing or enchanting it using a grindstone, anvil, or enchanting table. In Java Edition , the crossbow’s tooltip also lists the loaded projectile and its effect, if any. Like with bows, the player can choose the type of arrow to fire based on its location in their inventory :
Some mobs cannot be shot using an arrow, because the arrow either disappears or is deflected. However, by use of the explosion from an indirect firework rocket, these arrow-immune mobs can be damaged:
The projectile motion of an arrow fired from a crossbow is dependent on the angle the user is facing, as well as the user's movement speed.
deg Unreachable 1 Direct hit
The distance a launched firework rocket can travel is dependent on the rocket's flight duration . The amount of gunpowder used when crafting the firework rocket changes its flight duration.
A crossbow can be combined with another crossbow in an anvil , preserving the enchantments of both and the projectile of the target item.
A crossbow can receive the following enchantments:
A crossbow cannot be enchanted with Power, Punch, Flame, or Infinity in Survival mode. However, they can be applied via anvil in Creative mode in Java Edition or by using commands. When applied, each enchantment functions the same for the crossbow as it would for a bow .
Crossbows can be used as fuel in furnaces , smelting 1.5 items per crossbow.
Despite using iron ingots in their crafting recipe, crossbows cannot be smelted into iron nuggets . [4]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Crossbow" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A shield is a defensive tool that can be used to block damage from melee attacks, ranged attacks and explosions. Shields are temporarily disabled when hit by an axe or attacked by a warden while blocking, and certain damage sources ignore a shield's protection. Shields can have ornamental banner designs applied to them.
Shields are used for blocking incoming attacks. Using ‌ [ JE only ] or sneaking ‌ [ BE only ] causes a player to slow to a sneaking pace, and after 5 game ticks (0.25 seconds) [1] , non-piercing attacks coming from in front of the player are blocked, dealing no damage. Shields deal knockback when blocking melee attacks‌ [ BE only ] , unless the entity is immune to knockback. When the shield blocks an attack of 3 HP or stronger, it takes durability damage equal to the strength of the attack rounded up. When a player enters a boat, their shields exhibit the blocking animation. In Bedrock Edition , a shield cannot be activated for ? ticks [ check the code ] after attacking. In Java Edition , attacking while shielding does not perform an attack, while in Bedrock Edition attacks can be performed but lower the shield when doing so.
Most blocked projectiles that carry status effects (such as tipped arrows and shulker bullets ), as well as flaming arrows , do not affect the blocker, though in Bedrock Edition a shulker bullet will still apply Levitation . Channeling tridents still summon lightning upon blocking, but the trident itself does not damage the player.‌ [ BE only ] Tridents and arrows can be deflected into other targets. Knockback from melee attacks and projectiles is prevented, while knockback from explosions , hoglin , zoglin , and ravager attacks are significantly reduced. ‌ [ JE only ]
The shield directionally blocks all attacks coming from within the horizontal direction the wielder is facing, providing a full semicylinder of coverage to them. Pitch is unaccounted for.
Mobs that deal continuous contact damage such as the slime , magma cube , and blaze rapidly drain the shield's durability for as long as the shielded player remains within the mob's hitbox.‌ [ JE only ] [2] [3]
Attacks that can be blocked include:
Attacks that cannot be blocked include:
Laser beam attacks from guardians and elder guardians are only partially blocked (does not block the magic damage they deal).
Shields can be decorated by applying a banner .
Unlike with banners , shields cannot be repainted or washed in a cauldron . Shields have only half the resolution of banners, making patterns look slightly different. In the game files, the pattern textures can be found in a separate directory called entity/shield .
In Java Edition , shields with patterns can also be obtained using the same commands as banners, except banner has to be replaced with shield .
A shield can be repaired in an anvil by adding planks or another shield. Shields repaired on anvils retain their pattern and any enchantments . One plank restores 25% of the shield's durability. [verify]
A shield can receive the following enchantments :
Despite using iron in its crafting recipe, shields cannot be smelted into iron nuggets . [5]
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Shield" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A mace is a melee weapon that can do smash attacks which deal more damage the farther the user falls before hitting an entity . Landing a successful smash attack causes the user to land without taking any fall damage accumulated prior to attacking. It is crafted with a heavy core which only drops from ominous vaults at a chance of 7.5%, and a breeze rod which is obtained from breezes .
Attacking with a mace costs 1 durability , regardless of whether the attack is a smash attack (see below) or a melee attack. In Java Edition , a boat or minecart hit by a mace is instantly destroyed without decreasing the mace's durability.
A mace can be used while standing on the ground to perform a normal attack, dealing 6 HP damage when the attack cooldown is fully charged. In Java Edition , it has the slowest attack speed in the game, at 0.6. If used normally, it deals 3.6 damage per second (DPS) or 5.4 if using critical hits, while a wooden sword deals 6.4 DPS. In Java Edition , a Breach IV mace has the third-highest DPS and the highest damage per hit of all weapons versus entities wearing diamond or netherite armor . In Bedrock Edition , Breach IV maces have both the highest damage per hit and the highest DPS against entities wearing diamond or netherite armor, due to having no attack cooldown .
A mace does a smash attack when it is used after the player has fallen 1.5 blocks or more, regardless of the mace's current attack cooldown progress. [1] The player must not be grounded or in elytra flight,‌ [ Java Edition only ] and the fall height used in calculation is simply the starting height (Y coordinate) minus the ending height (Y coordinate). Successfully performing a smash attack without touching the ground resets the player's fall height to the height where the smash attack was performed, nullifying any fall damage. The player begins accumulating fall damage once again if they continue to fall.
When a smash attack is performed, extra damage is dealt to the attacked entity based on the distance fallen prior to the attack. All entities within 2.5 blocks of the attack are knocked back, similar to the effect of a wind charge .​ [ more information needed ] The knockback from smash attacks does not affect the attacker, though the Wind Burst enchantment can be used to launch them in a similar way. A smash attack can be performed on any entity, which includes mobs, players , and non-mob entities like armor stands . Smash attacks cannot be performed if the player has the Slow Falling effect.
Descending with an elytra counts as blocks fallen for smash attacks. [2] In Java Edition , the elytra must be unequipped before attacking for the smash attack to activate, as being in elytra flight does not activate a smash attack. [3] In Bedrock Edition , unequipping the elytra before attacking is not necessary, as smash attacks activate even while the user is in elytra flight. [4]
If a player is damaged while falling with the mace, the height counting towards the smash attack is not reset.
A successful smash attack causes a mace to deal 4 HP extra damage for each of the first 3 blocks fallen, 2 HP extra damage for each of the next 5 blocks fallen, and 1 HP extra damage for each block fallen after that. The Density enchantment can be used to increase smash attack damage by 0.5 HP × 0.25 per level for each block fallen. Smash attacks are usually critical hits , where both the mace's base damage and its smash attack damage are increased by 50%. The damage a mace smash attack can accumulate from falling is theoretically unlimited. [5]
The amount of fallen blocks needed to defeat a player wearing full Protection IV netherite armor from full health are the following:
The amount of fallen blocks needed to defeat a warden from full health are the following:
In Java Edition , maces have an attack speed of 0.6 (1.667 seconds), and have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , maces have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
A mace can be repaired in an anvil by adding breeze rods or another mace. One breeze rod restores 25% of the mace's durability. Both methods preserve the mace's enchantments.
A mace can receive the following enchantments :
Maces have exclusive access to the Density , Breach , and Wind Burst enchantments.
Maces enchanted with Density deal more damage when executing a smash attack. The damage is increased by 0.5 HP × 0.25 for each block fallen per level of enchantment, with a maximum level of 5. Normal attacks do not have their damage increased.
Maces enchanted with Breach partially ignore a target's armor points and armor toughness when attacking. The reduction is 15% per level of enchantment, with a maximum level of 4. By use of Breach IV, a mace's normal attack has the highest damage-per-hit of any melee weapon against targets wearing diamond or netherite armor .
Maces enchanted with Wind Burst cause a powerful upwards knockback effect upon executing a successful smash attack. The height gain is 8 blocks per level, with a maximum level of 3. Wind Burst can be used to repeatedly chain smash attacks together. Unlike wind charges , Wind Burst does not negate fall damage.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Mace" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A pickaxe is a tiered tool that is required to mine most types of stone , ore , and blocks crafted from stone or ore. The mining level of a given pickaxe determines which blocks it can collect.
There are seven pickaxe variants:
Wooden, golden, stone, copper, iron, and diamond pickaxes are crafted using two sticks and three of the tier’s material.
A pickaxe is used to break stone-based and metal-based materials faster. Different qualities of pickaxe are required to successfully harvest certain ores and blocks. For example, while stone can be mined with any pickaxe, gold ore must be mined with an iron pickaxe , diamond pickaxe , or netherite pickaxe , or else the player harvests no item.
Different pickaxes also mine many materials at different speeds due to differing mining efficiencies . The following table shows the number of seconds required to break each type of block:
In Java Edition , pickaxes have an attack speed of 1.2 (0.833 seconds), and have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , pickaxes have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
Pickaxes can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the tier's repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% of the pickaxe's maximum durability, rounded down.
A pickaxe can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Pickaxe" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An axe is a tiered tool that can quickly break wood-related and certain plant -related blocks, or be used as a melee weapon that temporarily disables shields .
There are seven axe variants:
Wooden, golden, stone, copper, iron, and diamond axes are crafted using 2 sticks and 3 identical units of tool material. This recipe can be flipped horizontally.
Toolsmith villagers occasionally throw stone axes at players with the Hero of the Village status effect.
Weaponsmith villagers occasionally throw either stone, gold, or iron axes at players with the Hero of the Village status effect.
An axe is used to break logs , blocks derived from wood and some other blocks faster than by using other tools. An axe uses 1 durability to break 1 block. For blocks that break instantly, it uses 0 durability.
The following table summarizes the speed at which axes of different qualities perform.
Pressing attack while holding an axe inflicts damage on both mobs and other players. Upon damaging a mob or player, the axe's durability decreases by 2.
Attacking a boat or a minecart with any axe tier instantly destroys it ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , without decreasing the axe's durability.
Axes have the special ability to do crushing blows [1] , which disable the use of the target's shield for 5 seconds. Crushing blows are triggered only against targets that are actively holding their shield up.
Crushing blows affect all of the target's shields, rather than affecting only the one that was being used. Crushing blows do not trigger against targets whose shields are not yet past their 250ms activation delay. Crushing blows are triggered regardless of attack cooldown percentage and, unlike sweep attacks, they can be triggered at the same time as critical hits and sprint-knockback attacks.
Crushing blows work by inflicting a 5 second use cooldown . When a shield is stunned, it cannot be used by right clicking‌ [ Java Edition only ] or sneaking‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] . Performing a crushing blow does not consume durability from the axe, in the same way that other attacks do not consume durability when they're blocked by a shield.
In Java Edition , a player whose shield is stunned becomes immune to knockback for several ticks. [2]
Mobs that wield axes, such as vindicators or piglin brutes , perform crushing blows should they hit a player's shield. The melee attack of a warden also performs a crushing blow should it connect against a player's shield.
In the Java Edition Combat Tests , the stun duration from crushing blows is lengthened by the Cleaving enchantment , at an additional 0.5 seconds per level with a maximum level of III.
In Java Edition , wooden, stone, and copper axes have an attack speed of 0.8 (1.25 seconds), iron axes have an attack speed of 0.9 (1.111 seconds), and golden, diamond, and netherite axes have an attack speed of 1 (1 second). They have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , axes have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
Using an axe on a log (stem), wood (hyphae) or block of bamboo causes it to become a stripped log (stripped stem), stripped wood (stripped hyphae), or block of stripped bamboo . Using an axe on a copper-based block or a copper golem removes one layer of oxidation or wax from the block or the golem. This consumes one point of durability from the axe.
In Java Edition , if the player holds a shield in their off-hand and attempts to strip/scrape a block with an axe, they will enable the shield instead of stripping/scraping with the axe. However, if the player sneaks , they can strip/scrape blocks as normal.
An axe can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the tiers ' repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% the axe's maximum durability, rounded down. Two axes of the same tier can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the axe's enchantments , unlike by crafting to repair.
An axe can receive the following enchantments:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Axe" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A shovel is a tiered tool that can quickly break sand , gravel , and dirt -related blocks. Shovels also have a unique use interaction with dirt-related blocks and snow layers ‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] and can turn them into dirt paths or snowballs respectively.
There are seven shovel variants:
In ancient_city/city_center/city_center_2 , there exists a furnace with a wooden shovel inside.
A shovel can be used to break soil-type materials faster. Breaking a block with a shovel consumes one use (one durability point). No durability is consumed for blocks that break instantly, like torches and flowers . Shovels have different amounts of uses based on the type:
The following table summarizes the speed at which different quality shovels perform on different block types. Values with a red background indicate that no resource is dropped when the block is destroyed without a shovel. Values with a yellow backround mean that another resource is dropped with a shovel but not the block itself and green means that the block is dropped itself.
In Java Edition , shovels have an attack speed of 1 (1 second), and have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , shovels have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
A shovel can be used to create a dirt path by using (not digging ) the shovel on any one of the following blocks, losing one durability point:
A shovel can be used to extinguish a campfire or soul campfire by using (not digging ) the shovel on it, losing one durability point.
A shovel can be used to obtain snowballs from snow layers , even with a Silk Touch -enchanted shovel, by using (not digging ) the shovel on it, losing one durability point. Even 9-high stacks of snow layers can be broken by using the shovel, resulting in 4 snowballs obtained.
A shovel can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the tiers ' repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% the shovel's maximum durability, rounded down. Two shovels of the same tier can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the shovel's enchantments , unlike by crafting to repair.
A shovel can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Shovel" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A hoe is a tiered tool used to till dirt-related blocks into farmland , and to break leaves , haybales , and sculk-related blocks faster. Hoes also have a unique interaction with coarse dirt , turning them into regular dirt blocks.
There are seven hoe variants:
Wooden, golden, stone, copper, iron, and diamond hoes are crafted using 2 sticks and 2 identical units of tool material. This recipe can be flipped horizontally.
Hoes are used to harvest certain plant-based or organic blocks more quickly. Breaking one of these blocks takes 1 durability .
Breaking any other block takes 0 durability if the block breaks instantly when broken by hand, or 1 otherwise.
Hoes are used to turn dirt, grass blocks, and dirt paths into farmland . To till, press use on a grass or dirt block while holding a hoe. This does not work on mycelium or podzol , [1] nor does it work if there are other blocks on top of the targeted blocks, including snow layers or torches. However, mycelium and podzol can be first converted to dirt paths with a shovel, then tilled into farmland with a hoe.
Hoes can be used to convert coarse dirt into regular dirt by pressing use on the coarse dirt. Similar to tilling dirt, the space above the coarse dirt must be empty for it to be tilled.
Hoes can also be used on rooted dirt , which turns it into normal dirt and yields a hanging roots item.
Tilling is effectively instantaneous, regardless of material, and uses 1 durability. Breaking blocks with a hoe uses 0 or 1 durability, depending on the block.
Hoes are unable to work on blocks with a plant on top, even if that plant could normally be placed on top of farmland without reverting it to dirt. [2]
In Java Edition , wooden and golden hoes have an attack speed of 1 (1 second), stone and copper hoes have an attack speed of 2 (0.5 seconds), iron hoes have an attack speed of 3 (0.333 seconds), and diamond and netherite hoes have an attack speed of 4 (0.25 seconds). They have the following statistics:
In Bedrock Edition , hoes have no attack cooldown, and have the following statistics:
A hoe can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the tiers ' repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% the hoe's maximum durability, rounded down. Two hoes of the same tier can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the hoe's enchantments .
A hoe can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Note: This video is outdated, as hoes can now be used to break organic blocks since Java Edition 1.16 .
Issues relating to "Hoe" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A sword is a tiered melee weapon that can be swung to deal damage , can perform a sweep attack ‌ [ Java Edition only ] and can break blocks such as cobwebs , leaves and bamboo more quickly.
There are seven sword variants:
All swords except netherite are crafted using a stick and two of the tier's material.
Pressing attack while holding a sword inflicts damage on both mobs and other players. Upon damaging a mob or player, the sword's durability decreases by 1.
Attacking a boat or a minecart with a sword of stone tier or higher instantly destroys it in Java Edition , without decreasing the sword's durability. Otherwise, it requires 2 hits, with neither decreasing durability.
If the player is grounded, is not performing a sprint-knockback attack , and has an attack charge of 84.8% or above, the sword performs a sweep attack . Sweep attacks are indicated by a gale particle that reaches nearby enemies for 1 HP and knocks them back. All enemies within a 1 by 0.25 by 1 block area of any part of the attacked mob and whose feet are 3 or less blocks away from player's feet are affected by the sweep. Sweep attacks play a unique sound effect, and the amount of knockback inflicted by them is 80% of the base knockback. The Sweeping Edge enchantment increases the sweep attack's damage to surrounding entities from a set 1 HP to 50% of the sword's base damage for level I, 67% for level II and 75% for level III. If the sword is enchanted, the enchantments are carried over into the sweep to apply to surrounding mobs.
A sword can also be used to destroy certain blocks faster. In most cases, the base mining speed of these blocks is multiplied by 1.5, effectively reducing the time it takes to destroy them with bare hands by 1 ⁄ 3 . Swords break cobwebs much faster than bare hands and they break bamboo instantly. Using a sword to destroy any block that doesn't break instantly by hand decreases its durability by 2; this includes bamboo, even though the sword is the fastest tool for breaking it. [1]
If a sword is enchanted with Silk Touch , by using either Creative or commands , cobwebs destroyed by the sword drop themselves instead of the usual string because the sword is classified as the proper tool for cobwebs.
The following table shows the time it takes to break blocks on which swords have any effect. Colors indicate what gets dropped:
In Creative mode, swords are unable to break blocks. However, they can still break placed entities such as minecarts , paintings , item frames ,‌ [ Java Edition only ] and armor stands . [2] [3]
A sword can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the tiers ' repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% the sword's maximum durability, rounded down. Two swords of the same tier can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the sword's enchantments .
A sword can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Sword" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Armor is a category of items that provide players and mobs with some amount of protection from common types of damage . These items include helmets , chestplates , leggings , and boots , which can be placed in designated slots in a player's inventory.
Horse Armor
Nautilus Armor
These items can be worn in armor slots, but do not provide protection against damage:
There are eight different types of materials of armor, including turtle shells . The seven full sets are shown below in order from weakest to strongest.
A full set of leather, copper, iron, golden, or diamond armor requires 24 units of a given material to craft. Netherite armor cannot be crafted directly, and is obtained by upgrading diamond armor in a smithing table. A turtle shell is a type of helmet, but no other armor items can be crafted from turtle scutes. Chainmail armor is not possible to craft, and can be obtained only from mob drops , trading , and generated loot .
Netherite armor is obtained by upgrading diamond armor in a smithing table . Each piece of netherite armor requires a netherite ingot and a netherite upgrade smithing template . A full set of netherite armor requires 4 netherite ingots and 4 netherite upgrade smithing templates.
Netherite armor retains the enchantments , prior work penalty , and number of durability points lost (instead of the remaining durability) from the diamond armor.
Two armor stands are found in each taiga village outdoor armory, one equipped with an iron helmet , the other with an iron chestplate .
Zombies , husks , zombie villagers , skeletons , strays , bogged , and piglins that spawn with armor have an 8.5% chance of dropping their armor when killed by the player . The dropped armor has a random durability and retains any enchantments it has. All of the mentioned mobs except piglins can only spawn with armor in Normal and Hard difficulties. None of the mobs can naturally spawn with netherite armor.
In Bedrock Edition , pillagers and vindicators that spawn in raids have a small chance to drop an iron helmet , iron chestplate , iron leggings , or iron boots , in a badly damaged state, with a possibility of having a random enchantment.
In Java Edition , armorer villagers throw chainmail armor to players who have the Hero of the Village status effect.
Leather armor can be bought from leatherworker villagers . These armor pieces have randomly determined color.
Iron armor, chainmail armor and enchanted diamond armor can be bought from armorer villagers.
Piglins may barter iron boots enchanted with a random level of Soul Speed when given a gold ingot .
Leather boots , often badly damaged, can be obtained as a junk item from fishing.
Armor can be worn by a player or mob in order to protect them. See § Mechanics for more details.
A player can equip a piece of armor by placing it in the correct slot in the inventory , by using it while it's in the main hand or offhand, or by dispensing it from a dispenser onto themself. When using the armor piece, any equipped armor corresponding to the same slot is swapped out. Each armor piece fills one inventory slot, and armor pieces cannot be stacked.
The following tables represent the statistics of the different armor types, including the following values: armor , armor toughness, durability , enchantability , and knockback resistance .
Wearing armor reduces incoming damage according to two values: armor , and armor toughness. Each piece of armor provides a given armor and armor toughness value, and the values from each armor piece are added together when calculating damage reduction.
The strength of incoming damage also determines the damage reduction of worn armor, as armor does not protect in a linear fashion, and instead drops off more and more as incoming damage increases. For example, a full set of diamond armor reduces the damage of a zombie's attack by 77%, but reduces the damage of a piglin brute's attack by only 67%. The total damage reduction of armor cannot drop off below 20% of its maximum.
The location of a given armor piece does not affect its damage reduction. For example, wearing leggings applies its damage reduction to the whole body, not just the player's legs.
The following tables represent the damage reduction of the different armor types depending on the incoming damage, accounting for armor toughness:
Calculate percent damage reduction and damage taken
Calculate armor and toughness required for a percent damage reduction
Armor, also known as armor points, represents the base defensive value of worn armor. The total number of armor points that the player has is the sum of the armor points of the individual pieces of armor worn, and is visually represented by the armor bar. The armor increases the player's armor attribute while worn. Armor points determine the minimum amount of damage armor reduces. See Damage formulas below to see how damage reduction is calculated.
The armor attribute is capped at 30. If commands are used to give the player armor with more than 30 armor points, or to set the player's armor attribute above 30, damage is calculated as if the player had 30 armor points. The armor bar does not show armor points above 20.
Armor becomes less effective for higher damage values, reducing the damage by smaller and smaller percentages until it reaches the minimum percentage. Armor toughness mitigates this behavior to a degree. The amount of damage reduced still decreases for higher damage values, but not as much. The total number of armor toughness the player has is the sum of the armor toughness of the individual pieces of armor worn. Armor toughness does not have a visual indicator like armor points. Armor increases the player's armor_toughness attribute while worn. See Damage reduction above to see how armor toughness affects damage calculation.
Only diamond and netherite armor have armor toughness.
The armor_toughness attribute is capped at 20. If commands are used to give the player armor with more than 20 armor toughness, or to set the player's armor_toughness attribute above 20, damage is calculated as if the player has 20 armor toughness.
The following table shows the amount of armor toughness given by armor that can be worn by the player.
Since without commands , the toughness of 20 is impossible, this can be simplified to:
D a m a g e r e d u c t i o n % = min ⁡ ( 80 , max ⁡ ( 4 5 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 , 4 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 − 16 × 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 𝗍 𝗈 𝗎 𝗀 𝗁 𝗇 𝖾 𝗌 𝗌 + 8 ) )
This gives a base damage reduction of 4 % × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 , a minimum damage reduction of 4 % × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 5 , and a maximum damage reduction of 80%. With 0 armor toughness, the base damage reduction decreases by 2% per point of damage. With 8 or 12 armor toughness, the base damage reduction decreases by 1% and 0.8% respectively.
We can use this equation to define the breaking point of armor:
𝖡 𝗋 𝖾 𝖺 𝗄 𝗂 𝗇 𝗀 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 = 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 × ( 𝗍 𝗈 𝗎 𝗀 𝗁 𝗇 𝖾 𝗌 𝗌 + 8 ) 5
The value of the breaking point represents the amount of damage required to reach the minimum damage reduction value, which is also the point at which armor toughness no longer applies. The formula above can alternatively be rewritten as:
D a m a g e r e d u c t i o n % = { 4 5 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 , if 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 ≥ 𝖡 𝗋 𝖾 𝖺 𝗄 𝗂 𝗇 𝗀 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 4 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 − 16 × 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 𝗍 𝗈 𝗎 𝗀 𝗁 𝗇 𝖾 𝗌 𝗌 + 8 , if 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 < 𝖡 𝗋 𝖾 𝖺 𝗄 𝗂 𝗇 𝗀 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 capped at maximum 80%.
With no armor toughness, this formula can be simplified to the following:
D a m a g e r e d u c t i o n % = { 4 5 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 , if 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 ≥ 8 5 4 × 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 − 2 × 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 , if 𝖽 𝖺 𝗆 𝖺 𝗀 𝖾 𝖺 𝗋 𝗆 𝗈 𝗋 𝖯 𝗈 𝗂 𝗇 𝗍 𝗌 < 8 5 capped at maximum 80%.
In tabular form (with a toughness of 0), damages are:
These damage values are lower if a player wears pieces of diamond or netherite armor or has toughness added to the armor through commands .
The following types of damage are reduced by armor and, consequently, damage the armor itself:
The following types of damage are not reduced by armor and have no effect on the armor itself:
All the types of damage that are not italicized can be reduced by the protection enchantments.
Each netherite armor piece gives a knockback resistance of 1 (10%), which results in a knockback reduction of 40% with a full set. The Blast Protection enchantment can be applied to armor to increase the user's explosion knockback resistance .
Armor can be enchanted to provide various benefits. Enchantments can provide more protection or allow armor to resist certain types of damage that armor doesn't normally protect against, such as fall damage or fire . Damage reduction from enchantments does not decrease the armor's durability . Armor enchantments do not appear on the armor bar. The strength of enchantments received through an enchanting table is dependent on the armor piece's enchantability .
As with several enchantments, several different levels of protection are possible. The maximum level of a protection enchantment is IV (4). Protection enchantments from multiple pieces of armor stack together.
Each protection enchantment protects against specific types of damage . The amount of damage reduction depends on the Enchantment Protection Factor (EPF) provided by that enchantment.
When a player or mob wearing armor is subjected to damage , the EPFs of all applicable enchantments are added together, having a maximum of 20, and a minimum of 0 (when the game is calculating the reduced damage). The damage reduction is resultingEPF / 25 , giving a minimum reduction of 0 and a maximum reduction of 4 ⁄ 5 or 80%. This means the player cannot be immune to damage from projectile or explosion in a world without cheating, even if they wear armor with the maximum level of relevant enchantments on each part.
Because of the caps in the calculation, it is possible to achieve maximum protection against specific types of damage with just three pieces of armor. For example, two pieces of armor with Blast Protection IV (EPF 8 each) and a single piece with Protection IV (EPF 4) would give a total EPF of 20 versus explosions. Any additional EPF would be wasted against explosions (but might be useful against other types of damage, if applicable).
If the damage is of a type that armor protects against normally, this reduction applies only to the damage that got through the armor.
It is possible using / give to obtain armor with an enchantment level higher than what is normally obtainable via normal survival . Using this method, a player could give themselves, for example, a full set of diamond armor with a Protection V enchantment on every piece. Following the algorithm above, we find that, because Protection V has an EPF of 5, the armor reaches the maximum EPF of 20 for all types of damage. Any higher Protection enchantments could be used to reach the cap with just one level XX (20) enchantment, rather than having a full set of enchanted armor, but would be wasted if all pieces shared the same level enchantment.
The table below shows all armor enchantments at their max levels:
Only one form of protection can be applied to a piece of armor (i.e. a chestplate cannot have both Fire Protection and Blast Protection, unless using commands to get all protection enchants in one piece of armor). Feather Falling, Frost Walker, Depth Strider, and Soul Speed are enchantments applicable only to boots. Respiration and Aqua Affinity are enchantments applicable only to helmets. Swift Sneak is an enchantment applicable only to leggings.
Any hit from a damage source that can be blocked by armor removes one point of durability from each piece of armor worn for every 4 HP of incoming damage (rounded down, but never below 1).
The chart below shows the durability per unit of material for each piece of armor, compared to that of the boots . The durability per unit does not depend on the tier of the armor.
This means that for the same number of leather / iron ingots / gold ingots /chainmail/ diamond , boots can take 1.5 more damage than leggings. Thus, chestplates and leggings offer more defense points per unit, but have less durability per unit.
This other chart shows the durability of each piece of armor in a set, as a percentage of the chestplate's durability. Additionally, the maximum durability of the chestplate is always a multiple of 16, leggings a multiple of 15, boots a multiple of 13, and helmets a multiple of 11.
Armor worn by a non- player mob does not lose durability when attacked by any means. Helmets that are worn by undead mobs lose durability when exposed to sunlight due to absorbing the mob's damage from sunlight. Every tick where the mob would normally be set on fire, the helmet has a 50% chance to lose 1 durability.
Netherite armor does not lose durability from lava or fire damage.
Wearing heads or carved pumpkins hides the player from the locator bar .
Armor, like tools and weapons, can be repaired by placing two pieces of the same type (e.g., iron helmets) in a grindstone or in the crafting grid.
A piece of armor can be repaired in an anvil by adding units of the armor material 's repair material, with each repair material restoring 25% of the armor item's maximum durability, rounded down. Chainmail armor can be repaired in an anvil using iron ingots , and netherite armor can be repaired in an anvil using netherite ingots .
Default color hex code for leather armor is #A06540 .
Armor can be given trims using an armor trim smithing template, a trim material and any armor piece. Trimmed armor has different patterns and different colors depending on the template and material used.
Some mobs have a chance to spawn with armor equipped. When a mob spawns with armor, the number of pieces of armor, the type of armor pieces, and whether the armor is enchanted , depends on the difficulty ; although, the tier of armor (leather, gold, etc.) has a fixed probability. Mobs can spawn with trimmed armor when spawned from an ominous trial spawner . Some mobs also have a chance to spawn with the ability to pick up armor on the ground and equip it. ​ [ more information needed ]
It is impossible for zombies, skeletons, and their variants to naturally spawn with turtle shells , netherite armor, or mob heads .
The protection provided by armor and armor enchantments works the same for mobs as it does with players .
The following mobs can spawn with armor:
The following mobs do not naturally spawn with armor, but they can pick up dropped armor (on Normal and Hard difficulty ):
This mob can have armor equipped on it via a dispenser , and the armor does render, but this mob cannot pick up the armor:
These mobs can have armor equipped on them via a dispenser or via commands, but the armor does not render, and these mobs cannot pick up the armor:
These mobs do not spawn with armor and it cannot be equipped in Survival mode, but if equipped with commands , their armor is visible:
All other mobs can be equipped with armor via commands, but the armor cannot be seen.
A helmet protects a mob that burns in sunlight (mainly undead mobs) from burning, but this depletes the helmet's durability as it absorbs the damage . Eventually, the helmet loses all of its durability and breaks, and then the mob burns in the sunlight. A carved pumpkin , mob head , or anything placed into the head slot using commands, can also protect the mob from burning in sunlight. These do not have a durability and as such cannot break.
Damage caused by any other source does not cause a mob's armor durability to decrease, unless the armor is wolf armor .
Some mobs have armor points even when they are not wearing armor. These "natural" armor points stack with any armor worn by the mob.
Horse armor can be equipped on a horse to protect it from most forms of damage similarly to player armor. Horse armor does not have a durability and does not break. Golden horse armor is more protective than iron horse armor.
Wolf armor can be equipped on a tamed wolf to protect it from most forms of damage , including ones that normal armor does not protect against such as fall damage and burning. Wolf armor functions differently than player armor and horse armor. Instead, it absorbs all damage it protects against, and decreases its durability by the number of points of damage absorbed. The armor can be repaired using armadillo scutes .
Nautilus armor can be equipped on a tamed nautilus to protect it from most forms of damage. Like horse armor, nautilus armor does not have a durability and does not break. Golden nautilus armor is more protective than iron nautilus armor.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Two types of swords, two types of armor, two types of helmets. The basic versions require iron. The advanced versions require steel, which you make by combining iron and coal. Carrying swords, armor or helmets take up inventory slots, but otherwise have no penalty and work pretty much as you expect (prevent some damage, or cause more damage)
Issues relating to "Armor" or "Armour" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A turtle shell is a variant of helmet that is crafted from turtle scutes . It is the third-highest tier of helmet, having the same armor points as golden , copper , iron , and chainmail helmets but with higher durability. When equipped, it grants ten seconds of Water Breathing to a player who enters water. It is also a brewing ingredient for potions of the Turtle Master .
While equipped by a player , the turtle shell provides the Water Breathing status effect, allowing the wearer to remain underwater for an additional 10 seconds. The effect immediately recharges after exposure to air. It will continue refilling the air bubbles on the hotbar completely within seconds with the tiniest fraction ("instant re-breath, filling") of a second of air exposure, so including further underwater again. It does not recharge if the player enters a bubble column. The Water Breathing effect does not activate for other mobs .
A turtle shell can be repaired in an anvil by adding turtle scutes , with each scute restoring 25% the turtle shell's maximum durability, rounded down. Two turtle shells can also be combined in an anvil. Both methods preserve the helmet's enchantments .
It is possible to upgrade turtle shells with trims. This requires a smithing template , a turtle shell, and an ingot or crystal ( iron ingot , copper ingot , gold ingot , netherite ingot , emerald , redstone dust , lapis lazuli , amethyst shard , nether quartz , diamond , or resin brick ).
These trims have no effect on the gameplay or strength of the armor.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Turtle Shell" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Ancient debris is a rare ore found in the Nether , and is the main source of netherite scraps , which can then be used to craft netherite ingots . Its high blast resistance makes it immune to normal explosions . In item form, it floats on lava and is completely immune to any form of fire .
Ancient debris drops itself if mined by a diamond pickaxe or netherite pickaxe . If mined by any other tool, it drops nothing.
Ancient debris generates in the Nether in the form of scatter ores which are never naturally exposed to air . [ note 1 ] They can only replace netherrack , basalt ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , and blackstone ‌ [ Java Edition only ] .
On average, Y-level 16 has the most ancient debris.
Generation of ancient debris varies by edition.
In Java Edition , there is an average of 1.65 ancient debris blocks per chunk [ needs testing ] , with a normal maximum of 5. [ note 2 ] As of Java Edition 1.16.5, on average they generate 1.56 ores per chunk. Given this number, and that there are 32768 blocks in a chunk (16×128×16), there is approximately a 0.004% chance that any randomly selected block will be an ancient debris block.
Ancient debris can appear in bastion chests, either as a singular item or as a stack of two items. These two options are rolled separately from each other.
Ancient debris can be smelted using a furnace or blast furnace , which gives the player netherite scrap . If a player takes out the netherite scrap, they are rewarded with 2 experience points.
Because of its unique combination of being both blast resistant enough to withstand TNT and being movable with a piston , ancient debris is sometimes used as a redstone component , usually in tunnel bores.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Ancient Debris" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Emeralds are minerals that are used primarily as the currency for trading with villagers and wandering traders .
Emerald ore drops one emerald when mined using an iron pickaxe or better. If the pickaxe is enchanted with Fortune , it may drop an extra emerald per level of Fortune, up to a maximum of 4 emeralds with Fortune III. If the ore is mined using a pickaxe enchanted with Silk Touch , it drops itself in ore form instead of as an emerald.
Emeralds can be obtained by trading with villagers and wandering traders , since they are the currency that villagers use for trading. Villagers and wandering traders buy various goods in return for emeralds. Trading is typically a faster way to obtain emeralds than by mining, as an emerald ore is rarer than a diamond ore.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Foxes that are holding emeralds also have a chance of 100% to drop the emerald they are holding upon death. Alternatively, the player can drop a food item to entice the fox to drop the emerald without killing it.
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop emeralds when killed while showing the item as trade offer. The amount corresponds to the available trade if it is available; if the player holds a hay bale , water bottle , or baked potato , the trader drops 1 emerald; if the player holds a milk bucket or water bucket , the trader drops 2 emeralds; and if the player holds a fermented spider eye the trader drops 3 emeralds.
Emeralds can generate in chests in some village houses or other generated structures .
The main use of emeralds is as currency for trading with villagers and wandering traders . They sell various items in return for emeralds and occasionally additional other items.
Emeralds can be used to select powers from a beacon . The player must select one of the available powers and then insert an emerald into the item slot.
An emerald can be substituted for an iron ingot , a gold ingot , a diamond or a netherite ingot in a beacon.
The following color palette is shown on the designs on trimmed armor:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
When diamonds were added in Java Edition Indev 0.31 20100128-2200 , they were known until 0.31 20100129-2332 as "emeralds".
On May 21, 2012, Jeb released a screenshot of himself testing the trading system. [1] At this time, what would become emeralds were rubies . [2]
Issues relating to "Emerald" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Lapis lazuli is a mineral required to enchant items in an enchanting table . It is also a major source of blue dye .
When mined with a stone pickaxe or better, lapis lazuli ore or deepslate lapis lazuli ore drops 4–9 lapis lazuli. With the Fortune III enchantment, a single block has a chance of dropping up to 36 items. The ore is most common at y level -2.
Aside from villager gifts in Java Edition , trading is the only renewable way to obtain lapis lazuli.
In Java Edition , cleric villagers give players lapis lazuli if they have the Hero of the Village effect.
1–3 pieces of lapis lazuli are required to use an enchanting table to enchant an item . More specifically, the enchanting table UI shows 3 options (see Enchanting mechanics for details): the first, second, and third options cost 1, 2, and 3 lapis lazuli, respectively.
Lapis lazuli can be used to make blocks of lapis lazuli and blue dye . In Bedrock Edition , it can also be used directly as a substitute for blue dye.
In Bedrock Edition , lapis lazuli can be also used in banner patterns:
In Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education , lapis lazuli can be:
The following color palette is shown on the designs on trimmed armor:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Lapis Lazuli" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Coal is a mineral item mainly obtained from coal ore . It is primarily used for crafting torches and campfires , in addition to being used as fuel .
Coal ore when mined using a pickaxe drops 1 piece of coal. If the pickaxe is enchanted with Fortune , it may drop an extra piece per level of Fortune, up to a maximum of 4 with Fortune III.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
When used in a furnace as a fuel, a piece of coal lasts 80 seconds (smelting up to 8 items), like charcoal . Coal used as fuel lasts more than 5 times longer than wood planks or wood logs used as fuel, being more efficient than any other use of wood for smelting in Java Edition , but outlasted by wooden slabs in Bedrock Edition . Though when smelting large amounts of items, converting the coal into a Block of Coal is even more efficient since 1 block of coal is made out of 9 coal but lasts 10 times as long as coal.
Coal and charcoal are also the only fuels accepted by furnace minecarts . They provide three minutes of transit each.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Coal" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An iron ingot is a metal ingot smelted from raw iron and is used to craft many items and tools .
Smelting raw iron in a furnace or blast furnace is the most common way to obtain iron ingots.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Iron ingot can be created from its base element , using the compound creator .
Iron ingots are the repair items for the iron tier and chainmail and iron armor materials , and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil :
Using an iron ingot on an iron golem restores its health by 25 HP × 12.5 .
Iron ingots can be used to select powers from a beacon . The player must select one of the available powers and then insert an iron ingot in the item slot.
An iron ingot can be substituted for an emerald , a gold ingot , a diamond , or a netherite ingot .
The following color palettes are shown on the designs of trimmed armor:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Iron Ingot" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A gold ingot is a metal ingot used to craft armor, tools, and items , and also used as currency for bartering with piglins .
Gold ingots are mainly obtained by smelting raw gold , gold ore and nether gold ore , or just mining nether gold ore, dropping gold nuggets. Gold generates more frequently in badlands biomes.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
As a material for weapons, tools, and armor, gold is not a straight upgrade from iron (except in the case of horse armor ). Gold has a higher mining speed and enchantability than any other material, but low attack power and durability.
Gold ingots are the repair items for the gold tier and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil :
Piglins throw the player item(s) if the player throws or uses a gold ingot on them.
Gold ingots can be used to select powers from a beacon . The player must select one of the available powers and then insert an ingot in the item slot.
A gold ingot can be substituted for an iron ingot or netherite ingot , an emerald , or a diamond .
The following color palettes are shown on the designs of trimmed armor:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Gold Ingot" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Copper ingots are metal ingots obtained from smelting raw copper and from killing drowned or copper golems .
Copper ingots can be obtained by smelting raw copper in a furnace or blast furnace , as well as the ore itself if mined using Silk Touch .
When killed by a player or a tamed wolf , a drowned has a 11% ( 11 ⁄ 100 ) chance of dropping a copper ingot. With the Looting enchantment, the chance can be increased to 13% ( 13 ⁄ 100 ) with Looting I, 15% ( 3 ⁄ 20 ) with Looting II, and 17% ( 17 ⁄ 100 ) with Looting III. Copper golems also drop 1-3 copper ingots when killed, unaffected by Looting.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The following color palette is shown on the designs on trimmed armor:
Copper ingots are the repair items for the copper tier and thus can be used to repair the following items in an anvil :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Copper Ingot" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A Nether star is an item that is dropped by the wither upon death. It is used to craft a beacon , and cannot be destroyed with explosions.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Nether stars have the same animated glint as enchanted items and end crystals .
Dropped Nether stars never despawn in Bedrock Edition . In Java Edition , Nether stars dropped by a dying wither despawn after 10 minutes; if dropped by any other means they despawn after 5 minutes like any other item. Nether stars are immune to all explosions, but can still be destroyed by cacti , fire , lava , and the void .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Nether Star" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The dragon egg is a gravity-affected block that can be obtained only once per world (or twice in Bedrock Edition [1] ) by defeating the ender dragon . It teleports to avoid being mined , but drops as an item if it falls onto a non-full block such as a torch or is pushed by a piston .
The dragon egg is available in the Creative inventory. It can be obtained with pick block or the / give command, or placed in the world with commands such as / setblock and / fill .
The dragon egg usually cannot be mined directly, as trying to do so causes it to teleport within a 31×15×31 volume centered on the egg, with locations toward the center more likely. If all air blocks in that area are filled so there is nowhere for the egg to teleport to, or if it fails to find an air block after 1,000 attempts at teleporting, it can be mined.
The dragon egg is a gravity-affected block, and drops as an item when pushed by a piston or when it falls onto a block less than a full block tall , such as a torch or a bottom slab .
When destroyed by an explosion , the block always drops as an item.
The dragon egg is not immune to destruction by the ender dragon, despite being produced by it. [2]
In Java Edition , a single dragon egg is generated on top of the exit portal when the first ender dragon is defeated. In Bedrock Edition , two dragon eggs generate on top of the exit portal; one generates when the first ender dragon is defeated, while the other generates when the second ender dragon is defeated. [1]
The dragon egg, if there is no block below it, falls until it lands on the next available block. When it is being affected by gravity and falling, it exhibits a smooth falling animation.
It does not suffocate mobs or players when it falls and covers them, nor does it squash mobs or players like anvils and stalactites do.
The dragon egg can be placed on a non-solid block without falling.
Like other falling blocks, when the dragon egg is floating, it has black particles falling from it.
The dragon egg emits a light level of 1.
To cause the egg to teleport, press attack or use while in Survival or Adventure mode (or only use in Creative ). It teleports to an air block nearby (up to seven blocks vertically and fifteen blocks horizontally), emitting portal particles, as endermen and nether portals . It may teleport into the air and subsequently fall to the ground since it forcefully obeys gravity. However, it always checks if there is ground beneath the teleport destination.
When the egg teleports, it creates a particle trail of particles from its old location to its new one. However, until Java Edition 26.3 , a bug [3] causes the particles not to point correctly to the egg's new location.
If all available air blocks are filled, it is possible to break the block.
Dragon egg teleportation lacks teleportation sounds. [4]
If egg teleportation finds an invalid location (such as below the world), it makes an additional attempt to find a valid location centered on the invalid location rather than the original position.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dragon Egg" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
The dragon's breath is a brewing item that is used solely to make lingering potions .
Dragon's breath can be obtained by using empty glass bottles on the ender dragon 's breath attack while perched, or on the purple effect clouds caused by dragon fireballs .
Dragon's breath may be added to any splash potion to upgrade it to a lingering potion, which can be used to create a lasting area effect cloud , or to craft tipped arrows .
With two or more dragon's breath in the brewing stand, after the brewing process, a glass bottle drops as an entity . However, with one dragon's breath in the brewing stand, the glass bottle is consumed and cannot be retrieved. [1] ​ [ until: JE 26.3 ]
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Dragon's Breath" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An End crystal is an entity that can be crafted or found on the End 's main island, where it heals the ender dragon . It can be placed only on obsidian or bedrock , and it explodes instantly when attacked or damaged in most ways.
An End crystal is found on the top of each obsidian pillar on the central island of the End, each on top of a bedrock block. There are 10 End crystals in total, two of which are protected in "cages" of iron bars . All End crystals respawn one after another as the respawning process of the ender dragon starts.
Their primary purpose is to recharge the health of the ender dragon, who gains a charge from the nearest crystal within a cuboid extending 32 blocks from the dragon in all directions. The dragon is healed 1 HP each half-second. If multiple ender dragons are spawned, an End crystal can affect multiple dragons at the same time. Entities and blocks neither obstruct the healing beam nor diminish its power.
This healing can be manually created using the command / data merge entity @e[type=end_crystal,limit=1] {beam_target: [I; 0, 0, 0]} . The beam can be pointed in any direction, allowing it to mark locations or objects.
As items, End crystals may be placed on bedrock and obsidian , as long as the two blocks above the bedrock or obsidian are air or replaceable blocks and no other entities intersect the area.
When an End crystal is placed in the End , a fire block is created at the End crystal location. If four are placed on the End exit portal , one on each of the flat sides, the crystals respawn the original End crystals on the obsidian pillars , resurrect the dragon, and then explode. The top of each pillar also explodes, destroying any player-placed blocks. This happens even if TNT explosions are turned off in settings.
If the exit portal is ever broken for any reason, End crystals can still be placed on obsidian blocks that are at the same location as where the exit portal would have been.
End crystals explode when attacked or damaged in most ways, even by attacks that normally do zero damage. They are not affected by exploding fireworks, and if damaged by an explosion, they disappear instead of exploding.‌ [ Java Edition only ] [1] The End crystal's explosion has an explosion power of 6, the same as a charged creeper . The End crystal's fire often remains after the crystal explodes. Any ender dragon charging from the crystal when it is destroyed takes 10 HP damage.
Due to the high explosion power and damage, end crystals can be used in a form of PvP known as Crystal PvP .
An End crystal's explosion can be blocked by a shield .
Although an ender dragon damages most blocks and entities in its path, it cannot destroy End crystals.
Placing water on the End crystal neutralizes the blast effect but not the damage or knockback.
End crystals with obsidian or bedrock below them do not damage blocks below them when they explode because the center of the explosion center is at the bottom of the End crystal.
In Bedrock Edition , setting the game rule mobGriefing to false prevents the End crystal from destroying any blocks.
End crystals are of two kinds: the ones with a base beneath them are created either by game mechanism or by the / summon command; while the base-less ones are created by players by manually placing the crystal items on top of obsidian or bedrock .
The base appears to be made of bedrock, with a crystal hovering over it. While in the End, a crystal continually generates fire at its current position, one block above the base (directly on top of the block the base is embedded in), replacing any other block at that location. This fire is capable of spreading.
The End crystal entity is not solid and can be walked through freely. End crystals can be pushed by pistons , but they explode if moved while on fire. Because fire is checked only when an entity moves, End crystals do not normally take damage from their own fire unless moved.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
End crystals have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "End Crystal" or "Ender Crystal" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Note: The ordering and orientation match what is shown in the texture file, but are otherwise arbitrary.
An eye of ender is a craftable item that can be thrown in the Overworld to show the direction of the nearest stronghold , which may break the eye. Up to 12 eyes of ender are required to activate a stronghold's End portal , which leads to the End dimension .
To locate strongholds (and the End portals they house):
Note that the eyes may point to an incorrect location if the target chunks were generated with a different biomes map in an older version or through different generation settings. [1]
Once an End portal is found, eyes of ender are required to activate it. End portals require a total of 12 eyes of ender in order to activate, though each individual frame-block has a 10% chance of containing an eye of ender when generated. Eyes can be placed in empty End portal frames by pressing use on them until the entire ring of 12 is filled, thereby activating the portal. Because there is a 10% chance of for each individual End portal frame to contain an eye, there is a 1 in 1 trillion chance that every frame will have an eye in it, thereby activating the portal automatically.
The probability that a specific number of eyes are generated was calculated using the probability mass function:
p X ( k ) = P ( X = k ) = ( 12 k ) ⋅ 0. 1 k ⋅ ( 1 − 0.1 ) 12 − k
where k is the number of eyes and p X ( k ) is the probability that a particular End portal contains k eyes when it is generated.
Java Edition : Eyes of ender use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity-dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The purple particles left by eyes of ender have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Eye of Ender" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An ender pearl is an item that can be thrown to teleport to where it lands, or used to craft eyes of ender , which are required to access the End .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A trapped chest always containing 2 ender pearls can be found in the "fake end portal" room of woodland mansions .
Piglins have a 10 ⁄ 469 (~2.13%) chance to barter 2–4 ender pearls when given a gold ingot .
Ender pearls can be thrown by pressing the use button, which consumes the item and teleports the player to where the pearl lands, dealing 5 HP damage of the ender_pearl damage type . In Bedrock Edition , the player will only be teleported if they are in the same dimension as where the ender pearl landed. Wearing armor enchanted with Protection or Feather Falling reduces the damage taken from the ender pearl, but unenchanted armor does not. If a player dies from damage due to throwing an ender pearl, the death message says "<player> hit the ground too hard".
However, if the player throws an ender pearl before hitting the ground, the fall damage is negated, dealing only the pearl’s damage.
Ender pearls have a cooldown of one second (20 ticks) before they can be used again. The cooldown is shown in the hotbar slot with the pearl by a white overlay that moves downward and must disappear before the player can use it again. If there are other inventory or hotbar slots containing ender pearls, they are covered with the white overlay as well. [1]
If the player throws an ender pearl and then dies while the pearl is in a loaded chunk before impact, the pearl disappears and the player is not teleported; in Java Edition , the pearl does not vanish upon the player's death if the ender_pearls_vanish_on_death game rule is set to false .
Ender pearls that fall into the void disappear and do not trigger player teleportation. Ender pearl entities are invincible and therefore are not destroyed by lava , and can teleport the player to the bottom of lava pools and lava seas .
An ender pearl has a 5% ( 1 ⁄ 20 ) chance to spawn an endermite when it lands, being the only way the mob can spawn in normal gameplay. The endermite spawns at the player's position when the pearl lands‌ [ Java Edition only ] , or at the pearl's landing site‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] .
An ender pearl creates a ticket for chunk loading every time it moves (due to its own tick) into a new chunk , and also periodically almost every 2 seconds (39 ticks). It loads and ticks the chunk it is in with a ticket level of 31 as entity processing. It also loads a two-chunk wide ring (a 5×5 chunk area centered on the pearl's chunk) around it as lazy chunks, the first ring being block ticking and the second ring being border chunks. The ender pearl continues to load chunks as long as the player who threw it is online, even when that player is in a different dimension. The pearl stops loading chunks when the player logs off, and starts loading chunks again when the player logs in.
When thrown straight up, ender pearls travel 27.68993 blocks‌ [ Java Edition only ] or about 45 blocks‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] on average. They travel up to ~51.5 blocks horizontally on even ground when thrown at the optimal launch angle of ~40°.
Since the thrower's velocity influences the throw, timing a throw with a jump towards the target can increase the throwing range. It increases to about 42 blocks when thrown straight up and 64 blocks forward at a 35° angle. When sprint-jumping and throwing at a 35° angle, the range increases to about 90 blocks. For the same reason, throwing while falling significantly decreases the range.
A thrown ender pearl experiences initial speed of about 1.5 blocks per tick. Its movement follows acceleration, drag, position (in subtick order); these variables can be simulated to predict the overall trajectory. Below is a calculator to predict the initial conditions in order to hit a desired coordinate:
deg Unreachable 1 Direct hit
Thrown ender pearls collide with blocks according to their collision box. They also collide with entities, but with the entities' collision box inflated to about 0.3 blocks in every direction. They collide with all living entities, including minecarts, boats, end crystals, falling blocks, and TNT.
An ender pearl can remain afloat on top of an upward bubble column, allowing it to be stored indefinitely.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Java Edition : Thrown ender pearls use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity-dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Thrown ender pearls have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Ender Pearl" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A heart of the sea is an item found only in buried treasure chests . They, alongside nautilus shells , are required to craft conduits .
A heart of the sea is only obtained from a buried treasure . The location is marked with a noticeable red X on a buried treasure map , which is found in ocean ruins and shipwrecks .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Heart of the Sea" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A nautilus shell is an item rarely dropped by killed nautiluses , or always dropped by drowned that hold them, as well as being able to be fished out of water . Nautilus shells, along with hearts of the sea , are required to craft conduits .
Drowned have a 3%‌ [ JE only ] or 8%‌ [ BE only ] chance to spawn with a nautilus shell in their off-hand, and they always drop that nautilus shell upon death . In Bedrock Edition , this also includes zombies converted into drowned.
In Bedrock Edition , wandering traders have a chance of 8.5% (increased by 1% per level of Looting ) to drop 1 nautilus shell when killed while showing the item as trade offer, if the player holds an emerald .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Nautilus shells are obtainable through fishing as a treasure item, with a 0.8% chance to obtain one, per catch, without Luck of the Sea . Like other treasure items, this chance is then increased to 1.2% with Luck of the Sea I, 1.5% with Luck of the Sea II, and 1.9% with Luck of the Sea III.
Wandering traders may sell 1 nautilus shell for 5 emeralds .
In Bedrock Edition , a nautilus shell is one of the few items that can be held in the off-hand.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Nautilus Shell" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A firework rocket is an item that provides a speed boost when used while flying with elytra . It can also be launched as a projectile either by hand or from a crossbow or dispenser .
It can also be crafted using extra gunpowder to fly farther or with up to seven firework stars to add customizable damage -dealing explosions.
Firework rockets can only be obtained by crafting.
In Java Edition , firework rockets with no explosive effects and 3 different flight durations are available in the Creative inventory . In Bedrock Edition , 16 firework rockets with the different base colors and the "small ball" effect, and a single firework with no explosion are available in the Creative inventory; these all have a flight duration of 1.
By crafting the rocket using firework star (s), colors, trail, and explosion effects can be added to the fireworks.
A firework rocket can be launched up vertically by using its item on a block. Firework rockets can also be launched from dispensers and crossbows .
Using firework rockets with a dispenser is different than launching it on a block. The direction the dispenser is facing launches the firework in that direction; for example, if the dispenser is facing downward, the firework goes downward instead of going up.
A firework rocket can be used as ammunition for crossbows , although it deals damage only if it has an explosion effect. A higher flight duration gives the firework rocket a longer range, and more damage is added per firework star. If shot from a Multishot crossbow, then 3 rockets fire with the same effects. The Piercing enchantment has no effect on firework rockets shot from a crossbow.
In Java Edition , if a firework rocket shot from a crossbow hits an entity , the rocket instantly explodes , no matter the flight duration. Attempting to do this in Bedrock Edition , however, results in the firework passing through the entity, [1] so the player must plan where to aim.
Normally, elytra can glide for a short distance, but with the use of fireworks, the player can fly a long distance, gain speed, and take off from the ground. Using a firework rocket while flying with elytra propels the player in the direction they are facing at a speed of 33.5 blocks per second. Using a firework rocket on a block while gliding propels the player instead of launching the firework. If the rocket is equipped with a firework star of any kind, the player takes damage when it explodes.
If any entities are leashed to the player, they instantly detach from the player when they use a firework rocket while gliding with elytra.
The duration of the speed boost depends on the flight duration of the rocket - a higher flight duration means a longer boost.
From experimental testing firework flight boost seems to follow following formula, assuming that boost lasts as long as particles can be seen. Boost = 10 ⋅ ( 2 + Flight duration ) ± 1
After successfully defending a village from a raid , the villagers may celebrate by setting off firework rockets. If a firework rocket set off by a villager hits a neutral or hostile mob by accident, the mob retaliates and attacks the villager. Additionally, if a villager accidentally attacks the player by setting off a firework rocket, the player’s tamed wolves and trusting foxes attack the villager.
Once launched, fireworks fly out vertically, with random horizontal offset up to 5 blocks. Fireworks can fly in any of the 6 directions a dispenser can point. After some time , the firework explodes into a colorful explosion based on the effects of the firework stars added upon crafting, or no explosion if no firework star was used. If multiple firework stars were added to the rocket upon crafting, they all explode simultaneously.
The explosion of a firework rocket deals damage to mobs and players that are within 5 blocks and not obstructed by solid blocks . The maximum damage of a rocket with one firework star is 7 HP , with the damage decreasing with distance. Each additional firework star on the rocket adds 2 HP points of damage, for a maximum damage of 19 HP × 9.5 with 7 stars. Using commands to add additional firework stars results in more damage. The damage dealt is unaffected by any other ingredients used. The explosion does not destroy End crystals, item frames, or paintings, but does destroy armor stands and decorative pots.
There is a delay between the detonation and the player hearing the sound, emulating real fireworks, but this sound travels much more slowly than in the real world. [2] [3] The explosion of a firework can be seen 64 blocks away, regardless of its height.
If the explosion exceeds the particle limit of 16,384 , the oldest particles are removed before displaying new ones, resulting in severely diminished firework quality / duration. Particle counts per star are:
Twinkle effect adds 2 particles to the count.
Like most other entities, fireworks can be moved by water and explosions , and teleported via portals . They also cannot move through solid surfaced blocks: upon hitting one, they either move to a side or explode based on the duration. If a firework explodes under a block, its explosion is flattened.
Non-lethal fireworks and fireworks crafted with firework stars behave differently around terrains. Lethal fireworks when shot at a solid block explode immediately upon impact, while non-lethal fireworks glide on whatever surface they encounter along their paths for the remainder of their duration and may resume their original trajectories upon exiting the surface.
Fireworks travel different heights based on the amount of gunpowder added. The number is displayed as a tag on the item's tooltip with the description of "Flight Duration".
Each firework determines its lifetime in ticks by 10 × (number of gunpowder + 1) + random value from 0 to 5 + random value from 0 to 6, after which it explodes.
When spawned by player or command, the height it rises is between 8 and 20 blocks with 1 gunpowder, 18 to 34 blocks with 2 gunpowder, and 32 to 52 blocks with 3 gunpowder. (Note: In Java Edition , it is possible to use commands to create firework rockets with higher durations. These rockets go higher and keep accelerating with virtually no terminal velocity. If the duration is long enough, the firework rocket could reach heights of over 1,000,000 blocks and speeds of over 10,000 m/s in a matter of minutes. Such fireworks with significant X and Z motions speed up sideways exponentially and reach outside the world boundary in a matter of seconds.)
When spawned, fireworks have a vertical speed of .05 and a random small X and Z speed (random value near zero with a standard deviation of .001). Each tick, the firework accelerates horizontally by multiplying its X and Z velocities by 1.15, and vertically by adding a constant factor of 0.04.
When shot from a dispenser, it travels 9 to 10 blocks with 1 gunpowder, 14 to 15 blocks with 2 gunpowder, and 19 to 20 blocks with 3 gunpowder in the direction it was dispensed. When dispensed, the firework has a random velocity close to 0.5 (with a maximum deviation of .009) in the direction it was dispensed and a random small velocity in both other directions (random value near zero with a maximum deviation of .009). The firework's velocity does not change over the lifetime of the rocket.
Fireworks can be made to travel different directions by being dispensed or launched under flowing water. The firework's direction combines with the flow of the water to go diagonally. The direction changes significantly less if the firework is shot by a dispenser instead of by hand.
Java Edition : Firework rockets use the Friendly Creatures sound category for entity-dependent sound events .
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Firework Rocket" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A spyglass is a utility item used to zoom in on distant objects.
To use a spyglass, the player selects it from the hotbar and clicks use while looking in the desired direction.
Spyglasses are used to zoom in on a specific location in the player's field of view (FOV). The spyglass changes the FOV to 1 ⁄ 10 of the FOV set in options . By default, the FOV is set to 70° in Java Edition and 60° in Bedrock Edition, resulting in an FOV of 7° in Java Edition and 6° in Bedrock Edition through the spyglass. The player's FOV can be set from 30° to 110°, so the spyglass FOV can range from 3° to 11°. Regardless of the situation, or status effects the player has, using the Spyglass always shows a FOV 1 ⁄ 10 of the FOV set in options .
A square cutout overlay is applied to the screen when the spyglass is in use, similar to the effect applied when wearing a carved pumpkin . Pressing F1 removes the overlay,‌ [ Java Edition only ] [1] [2] similarly to a carved pumpkin.
Hazy distant objects remain hazy when viewed in the spyglass. Mobs too distant to render also do not render in the spyglass. The spyglass shows a magnified view of what the player already sees.
The player is slowed down while watching through the spyglass. Camera movement damping can be adjusted in the controls settings in Bedrock Edition . When the player uses the spyglass continuously for 1 minute (1200 game ticks ), the interface is automatically closed.
If the player has a certain effect on their screen like fire , the spyglass does not remove that effect on the player's screen.
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Spyglass" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A brush is a tool used in archaeology to excavate suspicious sand and suspicious gravel for different items. Brushes also can be used on armadillos to get armadillo scutes .
Using the brush on any block (apart from suspicious blocks) displays a brushing animation, slowing down the player and creating breaking particles , but not actually damaging the block or brush.
When continuously brushing suspicious sand or suspicious gravel , an item dependent on the structure 's loot table slowly emerges from it until it drops out, and the block turns into regular sand or regular gravel , depleting 1 durability point on the brush. It takes 96 game ticks (4.8 seconds) to brush a single suspicious block.
If the player stops brushing a suspicious block, the block remains in its half-excavated state for a few seconds, before gradually returning to its unexcavated state one stage at a time.
When using the brush on an armadillo , it drops a single armadillo scute . Brushing an armadillo removes 16 points of durability from the brush. A brush with full durability and no enchantments can brush an armadillo four times in Java Edition or five times in Bedrock Edition before breaking.
A brush can be combined with another brush in an anvil , preserving the enchantments of both.
A brush can receive the following enchantments :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Brush" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A recovery compass is an item that can be held by a player who has died to point to where their most recent death occurred, as long as they are in the same dimension . If these conditions are not met, it will spin in random directions.
When held by a player, the recovery compass points toward the location where the player last died.
The recovery compass works only when it is held by a player who has previously died and is in the same dimension as their last death. Otherwise, it spins around randomly.
Like other items, the recovery compass itself still drops when a player dies if the keepInventory game rule is not enabled.
This item is useless in Hardcore mode, where the player cannot respawn.
The location the recovery compass points to is stored as the player's LastDeathLocation NBT tag, and can be accessed with the / data get entity @s LastDeathLocation command if cheats are enabled.
As with the normal compass, it also points toward the position of last death when viewed in the crafting table preview menu, even without being crafted.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] The direction of the needle is relative to the player viewing it.
A recovery compass can receive the following enchantment :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Recovery Compass" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A clock is an item that shows the state of the daylight cycle in the Overworld . It spins randomly in other dimensions, as those do not have daylight cycles.
The clock dial consists of two halves, a day side and a night side. The dial spins clockwise slowly to indicate the time of day, corresponding to the sun or moon's actual position in the sky. When the time of day changes suddenly, such as after sleeping or when / time is used, the clock dial spins rapidly to catch up. The player is able to sleep a few seconds after the clock shows exactly dusk.
The dial always shows the current in-game time when in the Overworld , regardless of where it appears. This includes a player's hand, an inventory slot, a crafting grid , an item frame , or even as a dropped item . For a clock to be mounted on a wall, an item frame is required.
Because there is no day–night cycle in the Nether or the End , clocks do not work properly in these dimensions. Instead, the dial rotates rapidly and randomly. Although clocks do not function in these dimensions, the actual daylight cycle does continue.
Piglins will run toward any clock item on the ground and inspect it for 6 seconds in Java Edition , or 8 seconds in Bedrock Edition [1] , before putting it in their inventory.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Clock" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A compass is an item that points in the horizontal direction of the Overworld 's spawn point.
A lodestone compass is a compass variant that is obtained by using a compass or lodestone compass on a lodestone , and instead points toward that lodestone's horizontal position.
If the target position of either type of compass is in a different dimension, or is a lodestone that has been broken, it spins in random directions.
Both types of compass normally point in the horizontal direction of a specific position in the world and do so when viewed in most ways; including in the inventory, when held by any player or entity or displayed in an item frame . They also point toward their target position when viewed in the crafting table preview menu, even without being crafted.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] The direction of the needle is relative to the player viewing it.
Normal compasses point toward the world spawn point in the Overworld . Using the / setworldspawn command to change the world spawn can change where normal compasses point.
If a compass or lodestone compass is used on a lodestone , it becomes a lodestone compass that points toward that lodestone. All lodestone compasses have an enchantment glint to distinguish them from normal compasses.
A compass or lodestone compass spins and points in random directions if it cannot find its target position. There are two causes for this:
Compasses and lodestone compasses do not stack with each other, and only lodestone compasses that point toward the same lodestone may stack together. In Java Edition , all disconnected lodestone compasses can stack with each other, regardless of which lodestones they originally pointed to. In Bedrock Edition , disconnected lodestone compasses can only stack together if they stacked together before they became disconnected, such as if they pointed to the same lodestone.
In Java Edition , if a lodestone compass is placed in a storage block, the lodestone can be broken and replaced without disconnecting the compass, as long as the compass remains in storage while the lodestone is missing. In Bedrock Edition , lodestone compasses in storage disconnect instantly when the lodestone is broken.
In Java Edition , uncrafted compasses viewed in the crafting table preview always point straight forward and never at any particular position in the world.
Maps crafted from only paper do not show the location marker; to add it, a compass must be added to the map. The map keeps its current zoom level, and remembers all of the terrain it has mapped out.
A compass can receive the following enchantment :
Maps crafted with only paper do not show the location marker; to add it, a compass must be added to the map.
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Compass" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Leads are utility items used to leash and lead certain entities . Leashed entities can be tied to fences or other entities by using the fence or entity while sneaking . A lead can be removed from an entity by shearing it.
Wandering traders always spawn with 2 trader llamas , each held with a lead. When a trader llama is detached, either by killing it or the wandering trader, dragging them far apart, using shears, or putting the llama in a boat or a minecart , the lead drops at the llama's position.
Using a lead on a mob ties the lead to the mob, allowing it to be moved by the player. Multiple mobs can be held by leads at once, but each mob held requires its own lead. Mobs can also be attached to other mobs with leads.
It is possible to leash the following mobs and other entities:
These mobs can only be leashed when not hostile:
These mobs can only be leashed when not mounted by a hostile mob:
Additionally, bats , pandas , fish , tadpoles , turtles , villagers , wandering traders , NPCs , agents , and monsters other than the ones listed above can be leashed using a map editor or NBT editor.
With a mob on a lead held by the player, using the lead on any type of fence attaches the lead to it with a visible knot, tying the mob to it. Multiple leads may be attached to one fence post. A mob tied to a fence tends to stay within 5 blocks of the fence post.
Pressing the use item control on a leash knot will leash any player-leashed mobs to the leash knot, or if the player is not currently leashing any mobs, leash all mobs leashed to the leash knot to the player.
Sneaking and pressing the use item control on a leashable mob while already having other mobs leashed will leash any leashed mobs to the new mob. There is at least one exception: the ghastling cannot have anything leashed to it. If a boat or any leashable mob that cannot fit into a boat is leashed to a happy ghast (aside from another happy ghast), it will be attached in a four-leash configuration hanging below the happy ghast.
A lead is broken by pressing the use item control on the leashed mob again, hitting the knot, removing or pushing the attached fence post, or using shears on a leashed mob or a leash knot. Leads also break when hit by projectiles. Whenever a lead is removed or broken, it drops as an item at the location of the mob. However, it does not drop when unleashed in Creative mode.‌ [ Java Edition only ] [1] A lead does not break if the attached animal dies.
A lead can stretch a maximum of 12 blocks (16 if the leashed mob is a happy ghast ). If the mob can move toward the player or fence post, it does so. If not, or if the mob is moving quickly away from the player, the lead breaks. The lead also breaks if the player uses a firework rocket while using elytra .
When the player or the knot is more than 7 blocks above the ground, the mob being leashed becomes suspended.
Most mobs that can be leashed can still be leashed even if attacking the player leashing them, and any attached leads do not break.
Wolves , nautiluses , and zombie nautiluses cannot be leashed after becoming angry. Despite this, if they become angry while already leashed, the lead does not break, but it cannot be reattached when broken through other methods while the mob is still angry.
When moving downward and accelerating toward the ground, leashed mobs accumulate fall damage and take it if they hit the ground while still accelerating. When moving up or decelerating (such as when the lead is stretched to its limit), the fall distance is set to one block, so the mob does not take any fall damage if it touches the ground.
If the player walks into and back out of a nether portal while holding a lead connected to a mob, the lead remains attached to the mob. However, if a mob attached to a lead walks into a nether portal, the lead breaks and drops as an item in the other dimension.
A lead can be used to remove a mob from a boat without needing to break the boat, if the mob can normally be leashed.
In Bedrock Edition , if a chunk unloads while containing a leashed mob (either by the player walking too far away, or traveling to another dimension via a portal), sometimes the lead breaks and drops as an item, leaving the mob free to wander around. [2]
Boats are unaffected by leads if a player is a direct passenger to a boat. Leads still work on boats with a player riding a mob that is riding the boat.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A leash knot is an entity created when the player right-clicks a fence post while having a mob leashed. It can be destroyed by attacking it, which detaches all mobs bound to the post and drops the leads.
Using the command / summon minecraft:leash_knot <X Y Z> , it is possible to summon a leash knot without using a fence. A leash knot spawned this way does not have a leash attached to it.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Leash knots have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Lead" or "Leash" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A name tag is an item used to give a name to a mob after writing one on the tag using an anvil . Most named mobs do not despawn or count toward the mob cap.
Name tags are obtainable through fishing, with a 0.8% chance per attempt. See fishing for more details.
To use a name tag, it must first be renamed with an anvil , costing 1 experience level. A stack of up to 64 name tags can be renamed at once, and the cost is still 1 experience level per stack.
If it is not renamed, it has no effect when used on a mob. After the name tag is renamed, the player can use it on a mob to give it the name given to the name tag from the anvil. Mobs and name tags can be renamed any number of times. Name tags with the same name are stackable.
Once a mob is named, it keeps its name, and the name tag is consumed.
When a mob is named, it becomes persistent and is excluded from the mob cap count.
Effects on various mobs:
Any mob can be named except for the ender dragon and the agents . Players also cannot be named.
A name tag can be renamed with an anvil using up to 50 characters‌ [ JE only ] or 30 characters‌ [ BE only ] .
A name tag can rename an armor stand , though it does not show the nameplate above its head until CustomNameVisible:1b is set as an extra step.
Using a name tag on a villager or wandering trader renames the mob instead of opening the trading interface. A rideable mob is renamed instead of being ridden.
Once a name tag is used on a mob, it is impossible to remove the name of that mob without the use of commands or external modifications.
A mob cannot be named "Name Tag" unless the player gives the tag a new name and then renames it back to "Name Tag" or changes to a language , where the name tag is not called "Name Tag" and then renames it to "Name Tag".
Renamed mobs have their name displayed over their head in the same fashion as a mob named through a renamed spawn egg . Their names can be seen only if they are aimed at from 3 or fewer blocks away in Survival, Adventure, and Spectator mode or from 5 or fewer blocks away in Creative mode.
Mobs that are named using the name tag never despawn in the world, similar to tamed mobs. [1] The exceptions are wandering traders or if the mob is hostile and the difficulty is switched to " Peaceful ", causing any hostile mobs or any named hostile mobs to despawn immediately.
If a renamed mob kills a player, the custom name is used in the death message in place of the mob type name. For instance, if a vindicator named "Johnny" kills a player, the death message is "Player was slain by Johnny".
A renamed wither also has a renamed health bar.
The name of a renamed entity is stored in the NBT tag CustomName ; editing the string component of the tag is equivalent to renaming the entity via a name tag.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Name Tag" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A saddle is equipment for certain animals that either enables or improves the act of riding them. All saddled animals can be directly controlled, except for pigs and striders , which must be guided using carrots or warped fungi on sticks .
Any mob equipped with a saddle drops the saddle upon death.
A strider may spawn being ridden by a zombified piglin as a strider jockey , which causes it to spawn wearing a saddle. This saddle always drops when the strider is killed.
A ravager has a large version of a saddle on its texture, but does not actually wear one, neither does it have the "Saddle" NBT tag, but it always drops a saddle upon death. Looting does not affect the drop.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Saddles are obtainable through fishing, with a 0.8% chance per attempt. See fishing for more details.
While horses , donkeys , mules , skeleton horses ‌ [ Java Edition only ] , zombie horses , camels and camel husks can always be ridden, a saddle is required to control them. These mobs (only after being tamed , in the case of equine mobs) can be equipped with a saddle by placing it in their inventory , which can be accessed by opening the inventory while riding the mob or pressing use on the mob while sneaking . It can also be equipped directly by using the saddle on the mob.
Tamed nautiluses and zombie nautiluses can always be ridden, but a saddle is required to control them. Like equines and camels, they can be equipped with a saddle by placing it in their inventory or using the saddle on the them.
Saddles are required in order to ride pigs and striders , but even with a saddle their movement cannot be controlled. A carrot on a stick (for pigs) or a warped fungus on a stick (for striders) is required to direct these mobs. As these mobs lack an inventory, the only method for equipping a saddle is using the saddle on them.
Animals can also be equipped with saddles by a dispenser .
For equines, camels and nautiluses, the saddle can be unequipped by removing it from the saddle slot or by using shears on the mob.
For pigs and striders, the saddle can only be unequipped by using shears. This is the only way to safely remove a saddle from these mobs.
While a player is riding a saddled mob, a view of the mob's health bar replaces the hunger bar on the HUD .
Saddles cannot be enchanted in Survival mode. However, in Java Edition Creative mode, an anvil can be used to enchant the saddle with Thorns , Curse of Binding , and Curse of Vanishing . Other enchantments can be applied, but they have no effect.
A saddle maintains properties such as a custom name and enchantments when dropped by the mob that was wearing it.
Once equipped, any mob with a saddle does not despawn and remains in the world.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Saddle" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An armor stand is an inanimate entity or mob ‌ [ BE only ] that can wear armor . In Bedrock Edition , armor stands can also hold items and be posed without the use of commands .
An armor stand can be broken by quickly attacking it twice, causing it to drop itself and any armor or item placed onto it. Players in Adventure mode cannot break armor stands. [1] Using any tool costs two durability, with no additional benefit.
In Bedrock Edition , if an armor stand is killed by an effect while holding a totem of undying , then the armor stand revives instead of dropping the totem, as with any mob holding a totem of undying.
Two armor stands are found in each taiga village outdoor armory, one equipped with an iron helmet and the other with an iron chestplate .
Players can use armor stands to hold armor , mob heads , carved pumpkins , and elytra , or other items and blocks if it has arms. The stand does not have a GUI, so players interact with it directly. Armor stands can be placed in 8 different orientations. Armor stands cannot be placed if there is not enough room (i.e. the space is occupied by other entities or solid blocks ).
Despite being inanimate, armor stands are living entities , allowing them to be pushed by pistons , moved by flowing water , pulled with fishing rods , pushed by attacks that inflict knockback , and bounced by slime blocks .
Using armor on a stand places the armor in the appropriate slot. If the slot is already equipped with armor, the old armor is swapped with the armor held by the player. Pressing the use control on armor with a bare hand removes the armor and places it in the highlighted hotbar slot.
In Bedrock Edition , armor stands have arms by default; in Java Edition , arms can be made visible only by setting the NBT tag {ShowArms: 1b} via commands or external editors. Pressing the use control on an armor stand with arms while holding a non-equippable item places it in its main hand. In Java Edition , shields are always placed in the off-hand instead. If the armor stand already holds an item, it is swapped with the item held by the player.
Items from an armor stand's main hand can be retrieved by pressing the use control in any empty spot in Java Edition , or from the chestplate zone if empty in Bedrock Edition . In Java Edition , items in the off-hand slot can be retrieved only if the main hand slot is empty; in Bedrock Edition , items in the off-hand slot cannot be retrieved unless the armor stand is broken.
In Java Edition , commands can be used to equip items in an armor stand's hands even if its arms are not visible.
In Java Edition , dispensers can place armor stands. Dispensers ignore the normal placement rules of armor stands - this means they can place armor stands inside solid blocks, or if the needed space is occupied by other entities.
Armor, mob heads, carved pumpkins, or elytra can be automatically placed on armor stands with a dispenser. Unlike players, dispensers cannot swap armor or items already equipped on the armor stand. Additionally, dispensers can equip shields in an armor stand's off-hand if it has arms; in Bedrock Edition , this is the only way to equip shields in the off-hand slot without using commands.
The pose of the armor stand can be changed by interacting with the armor stand (or pressing the "Pose" button on mobile devices) while sneaking, or by using a redstone signal. There are 13 possible poses.
Armor stands update their pose on both produce and consume redstone ticks , making them the only known entity component that responds to all 20 game ticks rather than 10.
Using a renamed name tag on an armor stand gives it a custom name. In Java Edition , the name is not displayed by default, [2] while in Bedrock Edition it is displayed similarly to renamed mobs. In Java Edition , armor stands can also be given custom names by renaming them at an anvil . In Java Edition , a renamed armor stand keeps its custom name when broken. In Bedrock Edition , armor stands named "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" turn upside-down.
Commands , such as / item in Java Edition or / replaceitem in Bedrock Edition , can be used to give armor stands items that normally cannot be equipped in armor or hand slots. In maps that heavily use command blocks , armor stands can be used to keep scoreboard objectives that are 'global' to the map, run commands, etc.
In Java Edition , armor stands can be customized further to have arms, pose, disobey gravity, dual wield, and other things by summoning them using / summon with customized NBT tags . For example, it is possible to create an armor stand with arms using the / summon command . It is also possible to change an armor stand without arms into a stand with arms by using the / data command. The commands are as follows:
Other examples of customization include removing the stone plate below the armor stand, or giving the armor stand a small size (roughly the same size and proportions as a baby zombie ).
Because armor stands are entities, they obey gravity, allowing them to fall and rest on non-full blocks such as enchanting tables , snow layers and slabs . Armor stands can't be leashed and can't ride on boats , but in Bedrock Edition , they can sit on minecarts .
Armor stands wobble slightly when hit by the player. They are not damaged by cacti and sweet berry bushes , but can be broken by arrows and tridents . Any armor equipped does not lose durability if shot while on an armor stand. An armor stand destroyed by an explosion or a firework rocket does not drop as an item . Armor stands in water and lava at the same time are not consumed by the lava.
Being living entities, armor stands can also have attributes added to them and can be affected by effects .
Sculk catalysts bloom without spreading when an armor stand is destroyed. [3]
In Java Edition , summoning an armor stand with no health causes the death animation. [4]
Advancements count armor stands as mobs , and they can be used for advancements such as Adventure and Arbalistic .
The player cannot consume food while looking at an armor stand.
Although armor stands are considered mobs, they have some properties set them apart from other mobs:
Any armor on the stand drops when the stand is broken. The effects of most (enchanted) armor have no effect when on an armor stand, with a few exceptions:
In Bedrock Edition , armor stands can be affected by status effects . [9] They can be 'killed' by Harming and Decay splash / lingering potions , lava, fire , and campfires , and they play the player death sound and fall to their side and disappear, yielding no armor stand item. If an armor stand is equipped with an item or armor, that item or armor is considered as "naturally-spawned equipment" with an 8.5% chance of dropping when the armor stand "dies" from the Instant Damage or the Wither status effect. If the dropped item is any form of weapon , tool or armor, it drops in a badly damaged state because the game considers it as "naturally-spawned equipment".
In Java Edition , armor stands can be given status effects only via commands, as they ignore any effect source in regular gameplay (splash potions, area effect clouds , shulker bullets , etc). [10] Armor stands with status effects do not emit particles, and are immune to most effects except for Glowing , Levitation , and Slow Falling .
Zoglins , goats in Java Edition , and vindicators named Johnny in Bedrock Edition [11] attack armor stands, but the armor stand remains undamaged; pufferfish also inflate when an armor stand is nearby. [12] Statistics classify the armor stand as mobs if the player dies while hitting the armor stand with the thorns enchantment.
In Java Edition , armor stands can be made invisible or used as markers by setting the NBT tags {Invisible: 1b} or {Marker: 1b} respectively. Both invisible [13] and marker armor stands are invulnerable to all attacks, including explosions and players in Creative mode; they can be removed only using the / kill command. Mobs ignore invisible and marker armor stands. [14]
Invisible armor stands still render any equipped items, have a hitbox, and can be interacted with by players in any game mode. Similar to mobs affected by the Invisibility effect, invisible armor stands can only be seen by players in Spectator mode, players in the same team as the invisible armor stand, or if the stand has the Glowing effect.
Marker armor stands are unaffected by physics (gravity, knockback, flowing water, pistons, etc). They have a hitbox size of 0, meaning that players and dispensers cannot interact with them. Due to the lack of a hitbox, it is possible to place blocks in the space visually occupied by a marker armor stand, or target blocks and entities behind it.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Armor stands have entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the entity .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Achievements that apply to all mobs:
Advancements that apply to all mobs:
Issues relating to "Armor Stand" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An item frame is an entity ‌ [ JE only ] or block ‌ [ BE only ] that displays the item or block that is inside it.
In Java Edition , because the item frame is an entity , it can be broken by simply punching it, even in Adventure mode. It is also targeted by commands using the @e selector.
In Bedrock Edition , no tool can accelerate the breaking process of the item frame.
An item frame drops itself when it's destroyed.
If the item frame contains an item, punching it drops the item, leaving the frame.
An item frame containing a pair of elytra generates in each End ship .
Item frames can be placed on the sides of most solid blocks (including slabs , stairs , fences , walls , doors , trapdoors , fence gates , glass panes , iron bars , chains , etc), in Java Edition as well as some non-solid blocks such as repeaters and comparators . They can also be placed on the top and bottom of the solid blocks. To place item frames on interactable blocks (such as chests and doors ), the player needs to be sneaking . Item frames can also be placed on the lid of a shulker box , but, in Java Edition , they pop off when the lid is opened. In Java Edition , item frames cannot be placed on the top face of fences , walls , and fence gates .
As item frames are an entity in Java Edition , multiple item frames can occupy the same block, although on different faces. An item frame can occupy the same space as any non-solid block, or a solid block whose collision box does not intersect the item frame's hitbox. In Bedrock Edition , item frames behave like signs and thus cannot occupy the same space as other blocks or other item frames. They can, however, be waterlogged .
Players can place items in the frame by using the item. If a map is placed in an item frame, it enlarges to show the map in the size of a full block, with the item frame's location displayed as a green pointer on the map, pointing in the direction the item frame is facing. If this is done in the Nether , the green cursor spins around similar to the white cursor (players).
If an item in an item frame has been renamed using an anvil , it displays its custom name when the cursor is over the item frame.
If the player places a block inside the frame, it is displayed in miniature half in, half out of the block. This can be most notably seen on stairs or slabs.
When the item frame is displaying an item, pressing the pick block control picks the displayed item instead of the item frame.
The displayed item can be rotated by right-clicking the frame. Items displayed in the item frame can turn 45° diagonally, with a total of 8 possibilities (90° and 4 possibilities if it is a map), and the frame outputs a redstone signal depending on the rotation phase that can be interpreted by a redstone comparator (note that this rotation value is separate from the clock or compass rotation). As long as the frame remains placed, it remembers the orientation of the last item it held, and uses it for the next item it holds.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition : Despite being an entity in Java Edition , item frames utilize block states internally.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
In Java Edition , item frames have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
In Bedrock Edition , an item frame has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format .
Issues relating to "Item Frame" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A glow item frame is an entity ‌ [ JE only ] or block ‌ [ BE only ] that keeps itself and the item inside it, illuminated, even in the dark.
In Java Edition , because the glow item frame is an entity , it can be broken by simply punching it, even in Adventure mode. It is also targeted by commands using the @e selector. In Bedrock Edition , no tool can accelerate the breaking process of the glow item frame.
Glow item frame drops itself when it's destroyed. If the glow item frame contains an item, punching it drops the item, leaving the frame.
Glow item frames have the same properties, usage, and rotation functionalities as regular item frames .
When an item is placed inside a glow item frame, it appears to glow, though it does not emit any light level .
Glow item frames share the same sounds as item frames.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition : Despite being an entity in Java Edition , item frames utilize block states internally.
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
In Java Edition , glow item frames have entity data that define various properties of the entity.
In Bedrock Edition , a glow item frame has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format .
Issues relating to "Glow Item Frame" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Paintings are decorative entities that hang on walls. They have many different variants with different sizes when placed, which are chosen based on both the available space and random chance.
To remove a painting from a wall, a player can attack it, break one of its supporting blocks, or place a block on the front of it (the block is placed on the wall behind the painting rather than being placed 1 block off of the wall). A painting can also be broken by an explosion . A painting always drops as an item when broken.
A painting can also be broken by throwing a projectile at it. The projectile can be any projectile with knockback or that does damage:
Paintings can be crafted with any color of wool . The color of the wool used does not influence the picture chosen when the painting is placed.
Paintings can be placed on the sides of blocks that have the " legacy solid " property (this generally includes most fully or partially solid blocks, as well as some non-solid blocks such as signs , banners , pressure plates , bamboo shoots , and sculk veins ). They can also be placed on the sides of redstone repeaters and comparators , despite them not being legacy solid.
Being an entity, paintings can simultaneously exist in the same space as blocks such as water or torches. Specifically, a painting can share the space with any block whose collision box does not intersect its hitbox. Paintings, however, cannot intersect other paintings or item frames . Being an entity, paintings can be broken in adventure mode.
There are several different sizes of paintings, listed below . When placed, a painting checks for the amount of space it has around its center point. It then chooses a random canvas of the maximum size allowed in the available space. By arranging blocks on the wall, the player can ensure the painting is the size wanted.
A painting cannot cover an empty gap in a wall. When one of the supporting blocks is removed, the painting breaks after 20 game ticks (1 second), if no supporting blocks are replaced during that interval.
In Java Edition , preset painting items are available in the "Functional Blocks" tab of the Creative inventory . The name, size, and author of the painting are displayed in the item tooltip. The "Operator Utilities" tab, if enabled, also contains the four unused elemental paintings . Unlike the regular painting item, these always place the same canvas.
Players and mobs are able to walk through paintings, as long as the blocks supporting the painting allow it (signs, open doors, etc). Secret doorways can be created this way. As mobs can pathfind through paintings, secret doorways are ineffective against them.
Paintings are non-flammable and allow light to propagate through them.
All paintings have MERS textures used in Vibrant Visuals , used to define how light reflects on the texture. Only the roughness channel varies per pixel, all other channels are set to 0, except for Dennis which has different metalness and subsurface scattering values. For these textures, see List of painting textures .
There are 47 paintings in the game. 40 of the paintings were made by Kristoffer Zetterstrand , six were made by Sarah Boeving , and one was made by Jens Bergensten .
The original painting is based on Still Life with Quince, Cabbage, Melon, and Cucumber by Juan Sánchez Cotán.
The texture was changed in Alpha v1.1.1.
The texture was changed in Alpha v1.1.1.
The original painting is different, depicting a woman sitting in a couch, while the skull is in the middle of a body of glacial water of sorts.
(uncredited in-game)
Like Graham , this painting is based on Still Life with Quince, Cabbage, Melon, and Cucumber by Juan Sánchez Cotán.
The background is based on the painting An Old Man and his Grandson by Domenico Ghirlandaio.
Specifically the sunflowers are taken from the oil painting.
The scenery is based on the painting The Courtyard of a House in Delft by Pieter de Hooch. [4] The figures on the right are from Jacques-Louis David's Oath of the Horatii . [5]
Death and the Maiden was a common motif in Renaissance art, ultimately derived from the Medieval genre Dance of Death .
The fighters are from the video game The Way of the Exploding Fist . [6] The backdrop is based on the painting Indian Summer, Vermont by Willard Metcalf. [7]
The figure is based on the person changing clothes from The Baptism of Christ by Piero della Francesca.
This motif was created using the scenery generator Terragen , with the renderer deliberately crashed during the construction process. [8]
The hand is the artist's own. The scenery is based on the painting Winter Landscape with Church by Caspar David Friedrich. [9]
This painting is based on the painting The Artist's Studio by Jacob van Oost.
This painting is based on a Minecraft screenshot, [10] with the grass block and the three-dimensional skull added on top. [11] The actual painting was added in Beta 1.3. (See the trivia section for more info.)
This painting is based on the painting St. Francis in Ecstasy by Giovanni Bellini. [12]
This painting is based on pack.png .
Some paintings are unused and cannot be placed by default, but can be summoned by commands (such as / summon minecraft:painting ~ ~ ~ {variant:"water"} ) or through a data pack . They can also be obtained directly from the Operator Utilities tab in the Creative inventory .‌ [ Java Edition only ]
According to Helen Zbihlyj , [13] these paintings were originally added to Pocket Edition as part of a promotional map meant to be shown at MINECON 2012 or 2013 . No footage of the map exists and the artist of these paintings remains unknown, but they were credited to Mojang in Java Edition .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Paintings have entity data that defines various properties of the entity.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Painting variants can be configured using JSON files within a data pack .
These paintings exist only in 24w14potato :
Issues relating to "Painting" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Music discs are a set of 22 items that release in-game music when played in jukeboxes .
When a creeper is killed by a skeleton , wither skeleton , skeleton horse (via commands), stray , bogged , or parched , it drops a random music disc from the following pool:
Since wither skeletons do not use bows , they cannot attack creepers without using commands , and therefore are unable to cause a creeper to drop a music disc in normal gameplay.
TNT ignited by a flaming arrow gives credit for all of the resulting kills to the entity that fired the arrow. Thus, when a skeleton ignites a TNT block by using a bow with the Flame enchantment, shooting through lava or fire, or being a wither skeleton,‌ [ Java Edition only ] each creeper killed by the explosion drops a music disc. [1] [2]
When killed by a player-deflected fireball , a ghast will always drop Tears .
When a chicken jockey is killed, it will always drop Lava Chicken . However, the rider must be killed before the chicken.
Some music discs can be found by exploring various structures in the game. The disc 5 can be found only as disc fragments , requiring 9 fragments to craft the music disc.
Music Disc 5 is the only disc that can be crafted.
A music disc can be played on a jukebox by holding the disc and pressing the use control on the jukebox, or by using a hopper or a dropper facing toward the jukebox. Pressing use on the jukebox again ejects the disc and stops any music playing. Once it stops playing, the disc can also be retrieved by a hopper placed beneath the jukebox (a jukebox emits a redstone signal while the disc is playing, temporarily locking the hopper).
The in-game music disc tracks are all monaural recordings. Tracks released for listening outside of the game are in stereo (though "Pigstep" has a mono version included in the Nether Update soundtrack EP ).
A jukebox playing music from a disc emits a level 15 signal, powering any adjacent redstone wires , redstone repeaters , and mechanism components . The signal turns off when the music track ends or if the disc is removed before the track ends.
If the player places a comparator besides a jukebox, the intensity of the redstone signal depends on the disc currently inserted, with the following values. The comparator is powered as long as a disc is stored inside the jukebox, even if it has stopped playing.
In Java Edition , the music disc files can be found in .minecraft /assets/objects . [a]
In Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education , it can be found in:
All music disc files are in Ogg Vorbis .
Issues relating to "Music Disc" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Pottery sherds [ note 1 ] are items with 23 variants used to craft decorated pots with ornamental designs. Pottery sherds are found in trial chambers , suspicious sand , and suspicious gravel .
There are 23 pottery sherds:
When a decorated pot is broken with a pickaxe , axe , shovel , hoe , sword , mace , or trident that is not enchanted with Silk Touch , it drops all of the pottery sherds and bricks used to craft it. If it is broken with your fist or tools enchanted with Silk Touch the pot itself will drop.
Pottery sherds can be found as suspicious sand or suspicious gravel loot in trail ruins , ocean ruins , desert pyramids , and desert wells , and can be extracted from these blocks using a brush .
Decorated pots with scrape, flow, and guster pottery sherds on their sides naturally generate in trial chambers . For a randomly generated pot in trial chambers, there is 1 ⁄ 13 chance for each sherd respectively, that a pot has one of these sherds.
Issues relating to "Pottery Sherd" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A smithing template is an item that can be applied to a tool or armor using a smithing table , which consumes the template. They are only found in structures , but diamonds can be used to craft copies.
The 18 armor trim smithing templates are used to apply customizable decorations to armor.
Netherite upgrades are required to create netherite tools and armor.
There are 19 types of smithing templates, of which 18 are armor trim templates and 1 is an upgrade template.
Upgrade smithing template:
Armor Trim smithing templates:
Some armor trim patterns are based on a mob or block found in the same structure as the corresponding smithing template. For example, the snout armor trim resembles a piglin 's nose or ears. [1]
Smithing templates can be found in various structures and can be duplicated by crafting the smithing template with seven diamonds and its corresponding material.
Elder guardians have a 20% chance to drop 1 tide armor trim upon death. Looting does not affect the chance, and the elder guardian does not need to be killed by a player in order for the trim to drop.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Note: In woodland mansions, only chests with random loot have the chance to contain the Vex Smithing Template; chests in the "Allium room", "Sapling farm", "Tree-chopping room", and "Fake End portal room" always generate with the same loot, specific to their respective rooms.
Smithing templates can be duplicated with diamonds and other materials depending on the template.
In Bedrock Edition , spire, tide, and dune armor trims can be duplicated with more blocks than in Java Edition . In addition to the normal blocks, tide armor trims can be duplicated using prismarine bricks or dark prismarine, dune armor trims can be duplicated with smooth sandstone, cut sandstone, or chiseled sandstone, and spire armor trims can be duplicated with purpur pillars. [2]
Smithing templates are used at a smithing table . Armor trim smithing templates are used to customize an armor piece's appearance by using an armor trim, an armor piece, and a trim material .
Issues relating to "Smithing Template" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A wind charge is a throwable item made from breeze rods . It bursts into wind on impact, which can knock entities into the air and interact with doors , buttons , levers , and similar blocks .
Breezes use special high-blast-radius wind charges as their ranged attack, which cannot be obtained by players .
A wind charge can be thrown by using it. After it is thrown, the wind charge is consumed.
Wind charges have a cooldown of 10 ticks (0.5 seconds) before they can be used again. The cooldown is shown in the hotbar by a white overlay on the wind charge that shrinks and must disappear before the player can use it again. If there are other inventory or hotbar slots containing wind charges, they are covered with the white overlay as well. [1] They can be used to activate buttons , fence gates , levers , and non-iron trapdoors and doors . They also ring bells , break chorus flowers , extinguish candles , and shatter decorated pots .
Wind charges, when fired by players, dispensers, or breezes, fly in a straight line through the air. There is a random offset in a wind charge's trajectory over a cone-shaped region, spreading along the aimed trajectory, which can cause a wind charge to miss its target or hit something else.
When a wind charge directly hits an entity , the entity takes 1 HP damage and is knocked back 2.5 blocks unless the entity is resistant to knockback (e.g., squid , wardens , ravagers ). A burst of wind also appears and knocks back nearby entities without dealing damage to them. Mobs may be knocked high enough into the air to take additional fall damage upon landing. A wind charge that passes through fire or lava sets fire to any entities that it hits.‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ]
The wind burst also interacts with these blocks:
Wind charges can be deflected if hit with another projectile or a melee attack, similar to ghast fireballs . Blast Protection reduces the knockback effect of wind charges.
Wind charges are distance attenuated by liquids such as water and lava . They fly in a straight line, similar to fireballs.
Wind charges are two separate entities depending on their source. Wind charges shot by breezes are breeze_wind_charge s, while wind charges shot by players and dispensers are simply wind_charge s. This distinction is in place as the two types of wind charges have some different properties. breeze_wind_charge s cannot be obtained as items.
Wind charges fired by players and dispensers deal 22% more knockback than those fired by breezes, but have a much smaller burst area. Player-fired wind charges affect entities within a 2.4 blocks Euclidean sphere; breeze-fired wind charges affect entities within a 6 blocks Euclidean sphere.
A player launched by wind charges shot by a player or a dispenser accumulates fall damage only when falling below the Y level where the wind burst hit. In Bedrock Edition , when throwing a wind charge, the projectile is slightly offset.
Unlike other forms of projectiles when fired on the move, wind charges slightly offset to whatever direction the shooter is moving, following close to the crosshair.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wind charges have entity data associated with them that contain various properties.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Wind charges are no longer spawned 0.8 blocks away from the shooter.
Issues relating to "Wind Charge" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A heavy core is a rare block that can only be obtained from ominous vaults found in trial chambers . It can be combined with a breeze rod to craft a mace .
A heavy core can be mined with any tool or by hand, but a pickaxe is the most effective. It always drops itself when mined.
In Bedrock Edition , just like glazed terracotta , heavy cores can be pushed by pistons but can't be pulled by sticky pistons . They also don't stick to slime blocks and honey blocks . In Java Edition , they can be both pushed and pulled by pistons. They also stick to slime blocks and honey blocks.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Heavy Core" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A village is a group or complex of buildings and other above ground structures that generate naturally in the Overworld . A village is inhabited by villagers , cats , iron golems and livestock mobs. Wandering traders with their trader llamas can occasionally spawn there.
Villages are a source of resources for the player, obtained through trading, loot chests, and other materials found within the village. They are also targeted by illager raids , which are triggered when a player with the Bad Omen effect enters a village.
Villages generate naturally in plains , savanna , taiga , meadows , snowy plains , and desert biomes. In Bedrock Edition , they also generate in snowy taiga , sunflower plains and any vanilla or custom biome through the behavior pack that has the minecraft:village_type component, which defines the village type and allows it to be generated in that biome. In Java Edition , villages can generate in superflat worlds. The type of the village, and therefore the style of all structures within it, is determined by the biome at the village center or meeting point. The buildings and wood depend on the biome the village is in. If the meeting point does not generate in one of the above biomes, the village defaults to plains style. Villages will always have their respective village type in their respective biome(s).
The following table shows the village styles corresponding to different biomes.
The number of villagers spawned depends on the number of beds in the village. Villagers spawn only in houses that have beds, while job site buildings (with no beds) always generate without villagers.
If a building or pathway is constructed over open-air, circular or square platforms of grass or sand (depending on the terrain) generates below the structure, which can cause surface oddities. These platforms do not generate beside cliffs or over the void; rather, they generate on the lowest blocks. Platforms can be clearly seen when a village building is generated over an ocean. Farms generate a few blocks of open space above them if they happen to generate inside a hill. Village buildings can also be suddenly on the top of a mountain while the other buildings are at the bottom of the mountain. This happens often in savanna villages.
Some villages are generated as abandoned; see § Abandoned villages below.
Villages are slightly more common in Bedrock Edition than in Java Edition . There is a roughly 1 ⁄ 2 chance that at least one village is present within 500 blocks of the world spawn point in Java Edition , while this chance is about 2 ⁄ 3 in Bedrock Edition . This is because villages can generate in more biomes in Bedrock Edition , as well as being closer to each other within an eligible biome.
Despite the existence of jungle and swamp villagers, village structures do not generate in these biomes. Jungle and swamp villagers can only spawn naturally in rare cases where a village overlaps a swamp or jungle. They can also be spawned by breeding villagers in a jungle or swamp, or by curing a jungle or swamp zombie villager.
A village has a 2% chance of generating as an abandoned village [1] (also known as zombie village ).
In an abandoned village, all generated villagers are instead zombie villagers , and all doors and torches are missing. The zombie villagers do not despawn, but have no resistance to sunlight. In abandoned villages, most cobblestone blocks are replaced by mossy cobblestone , random blocks (particularly wood) are replaced by cobwebs , and all glass panes are replaced by brown stained glass panes to represent dirty glass. Abandoned villages also spawn stray cats , as well as the usual village livestock, but they do not spawn iron golems naturally. The number of buildings in an abandoned village can be slightly more than in a normal village.
A preview of village generation is shown below: [ info 1 ]
The number of buildings making up a village can vary, and no village consists of all building types at once. Apart from the meeting point, which is unique and systematic, the number of buildings of each type is randomly generated and increased in superflat ‌ [ Java Edition only ] worlds. More than one meeting point can be generated in superflat worlds. The number of lamp posts and decorative structures (hay bales, melon patch, pumpkin patch, farms, snow and ice patches) has no restriction, as they are generated where no other buildings can be placed. These structures could have functions and could be of great use to the player . Paths are found between the buildings of the village and often extend beyond them.
Structures are chosen randomly from a pool of possible buildings.
The full list of the village house blueprints can be accessed by going here .
Architectural style and blocks making up the village structures vary according to village type. Not every building can be generated in a single village, although some blocks can be found in any village, such as job site blocks and food items.
In Java Edition , buildings have different probabilities of generating, depending on village type; for example, a weaponsmith shop is more likely to appear in a Taiga village than in other villages.
In Bedrock Edition , villages don't generate with expected structures; for example, a fletcher house doesn't appear in a plains village, and a mason house doesn't appear in a savanna village. [2]
Villages generate paths between the buildings and extend outside of the village. Village paths generate at the level of existing terrain, potentially going up steep hills or down ravines without regard for whether an entity could actually traverse the path. Paths do not go below one level of water and replace only grass blocks (with air above), water , lava , sand , sandstone , and red sandstone ; all other blocks are ignored and the blocks underneath are considered for replacement instead. [verify] Villagers use these paths to travel across the village.
In plains, savanna, taiga, and snowy villages, paths are comprised of dirt paths and grass. Savanna villages also generate farmland and crops in some areas. Dirt paths that generate over water are replaced by the village style's plank type. Desert villages are generated with smooth sandstone paths.
Trees, lamp posts, and other decorative structures can generate in the middle of paths as obstructions. [3]
A village loot changes depending on the building.
Villages as a whole have no defined "center", "size", or "radius"; they are defined only based on proximity to any "village center" subchunk.
A subchunk is a "village center" if it contains at least one claimed bed , bell , or job site block. The 26 subchunks in a 3×3×3 cube around such a subchunk are also considered part of a village.
A village always consists of at least one acceptable bed and one villager. Rarely, a village structure can generate without beds, thus not qualifying as a village. Upon creation, a village center is defined as a POI claimed by the first villager, and the village's size is the greater of 32 blocks or the distance to the furthest bed from the center. Any villager, village golem, or raid-spawned illagers can pathfind back into the village if they find themselves farther than that many blocks from the center.
Villages are established by the number of valid beds in the village.
The maximum population of a village is the number of valid beds. If the population drops below that point (due to death or removal), but there are at least two villagers left who can reach each other, the villagers mate and breed until the population is at the maximum.
A village is created when at least one villager links to one bed. The village continues to exist as long as one of its villagers remains linked to one of its beds. If all beds are unlinked (by being destroyed, by players sleeping in them, or by villagers failing to pathfind to them), then the village ceases to exist. When this happens, the villagers lose all links to job site blocks and bells and cannot use them.
When the first villager links to a bed, a village of size 65×25×65 blocks is created, centered on the pillow of that bed. The boundaries, and consequently the center (which is important because it defines where cats and iron golems can spawn), may change as other villagers link or unlink from point of interest (POI) blocks. When the boundaries change, the center usually shifts to the location of the POI block near the midpoint between the farthest out POI in each direction. In naturally generated villages, there is usually a bell near the village center, but aside from that, bells have no special role distinct from other POI in how the game defines and manages the village center and boundaries.
Villages have gathering sites where villagers may mingle. A gathering site is defined as a bell located within the village boundary. A wandering trader may spawn at a gathering site, accompanied by trader llamas . A villager also rings the bell when a raid starts.
Job site blocks are blocks such as grindstones , smithing tables , and lecterns , which are used by villagers. Villagers with the corresponding professions spend their time in front of their job site block, except for nitwits, baby villagers, and unemployed villagers (villagers without profession overlays). Upon claiming a job site block, green particles appear above both the villager and the job site block, and the villager takes up the profession of the job site block if unemployed. Villagers who have already been traded with can claim only job site blocks related to their profession. Employed villagers who are not linked to a job site block are unable to restock their trades. Villagers cannot link to a job site block that has already been claimed by another villager. There are thirteen job site blocks in the game, each linking to its respective villager profession.
These events are not tied to generated village structures, but these structures (except for abandoned villages) typically satisfy the game's definition in the context of village mechanics . Specifically, these events consider any chunk section (aka. " subchunk ") within a 3×3×3 cube of sections centered on a section containing a bed , bell , or job site as part of a village.
A player who drinks an ominous bottle (dropped by raid captains ) receives the Bad Omen effect for 100 minutes. Like other status effects, Bad Omen can also be cleared by dying or drinking milk. Entering a village boundary while the effect is active turns it into Raid Omen , which starts a raid after the effect runs out. The raid spawns groups of illagers in waves, which attack the village. The higher the level, the higher the chance for the raiding mobs to wield enchanted weapons.
Zombie sieges are in-game events where many zombies spawn in a village, regardless of how well-lit or walled off a village is. They have a 10% chance of occurring at midnight every night or during thunderstorms when a village has at least 20 valid beds. There is no indication of a zombie siege happening except for an unusually high number of zombies.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Village" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A stronghold is a rare underground structure in the Overworld , and is the only place where an End portal can be found. Strongholds can be located by using an eye of ender .
Strongholds generate at any Y level, mostly underground, and prefer to generate in biomes above sea level, but generate underwater if necessary. Strongholds may generate at bedrock level, cutting the bedrock.
Most parts of the stronghold can be overwritten by caves , ocean monuments , ancient cities , mineshafts , fossils , amethyst geodes , trial chambers , and monster rooms ; but it is rare for the End portal to be replaced, which would force a player to find one of the other strongholds, as a portal can be activated only with all 12 End portal frames present. Canyons do not overwrite strongholds; rather, a stronghold can occasionally be found exposed by a canyon.
In Bedrock Edition , strongholds generate randomly throughout the world and they are at least 160 blocks away from the world origin. There is no limit to the number of strongholds that can generate, unlike in Java Edition . There are 3 extra strongholds at least 453 blocks away from the world origin, which tend to be close to the 453-block boundary, and are guaranteed to generate below meeting points of a village . In rare cases, these 3 extra strongholds can be very far from the world origin, sometimes over 10,000 blocks away.
In Java Edition , all strongholds are located at random coordinates within rings in all biomes, where each ring is a certain radius from the center of the world (X=0, Z=0). For a given ring, the strongholds are generated at roughly equal angles from the center point of the world (for instance, each stronghold in a ring of 3 is in the region of 120 degrees from the others, measured from the origin). The game does not generate a stronghold partially above ground; any portion above the sea level is replaced with air , leaving a cutaway. If a stronghold generates in an ocean , which occurs rarely, it typically generates with terrain covered above it. Strongholds are biased towards biomes in the #stronghold_biased_to biome tag.​ [ more information needed ]
There are eight rings, containing 128 strongholds in total:
The number of strongholds in each ring is the triangular number of the number one more than the ring number, except for the outermost ring, where 45 would be expected.
The outermost ring has the further unusual property of putting the strongholds at angles of roughly 36° (not the expected 40°) as if there were to be ten equally spaced strongholds, like in the third ring. One of these ten does not generate, however, keeping the number at nine.
Stronghold generation starts with a spiral staircase room that leads down to a five-way intersection. From there, additional rooms are randomly generated. The layout can extend up to 50 rooms away from the original room and within a horizontal radius of 112 blocks.​ [ more information needed ] If no portal room is generated during this process, the stronghold generation restarts.
The distribution of stone brick variants is roughly as follows:
Infested cracked stone bricks and infested mossy stone bricks do not naturally generate; they only appear when silverfish infest these blocks. [1]
This sub-structure can also include up to 4 torches, each with a 10% chance to generate. They are placed hanging on the walls beside the potential side exits, regardless of whether the exits generate.
The render on the side depicts the sub-structure with all the features generated.
Between 0 and 5 spiral staircases can generate per stronghold, plus a starter staircase.
When an eye of ender is thrown, it will fly towards chunk coordinates 0, ~, 0 of the chunk the start piece is in. The center of the starter staircase will always generate at chunk coordinates 4, ~, 4. The starter staircase will always generate with an opening as its entrance.
There is also an empty alcove under the stairs.
Between 0 and 5 straight staircases can generate per stronghold.
This room can branch out to hidden rooms. If the room is rotated such that the player faces west or north (-x or -z) when entering it, a hidden room may try to generate. Hidden rooms always attempt to generate directly adjacent to indentations on the same wall; the attempt can sometimes fail meaning no hidden room generates.
Between 0 and 4 five-way crossings can generate per stronghold. In addition to these, an extra five-way crossing always generates as part of the starting point of the structure.
Between 0 and 5 prison halls can generate per stronghold.
Between 0 and 4 chest corridors can generate per stronghold.
Large rooms come in 4 variants:
Between 0 and 6 large rooms, regardless of variants, can generate per stronghold.
Libraries come in 2 variants:
Libraries generate in their small variant only when there isn't enough space for the large variant; otherwise, they always generate in their large variant.
Each air block within 4 blocks above the ground (inclusive) has a 7% chance of being replaced by a cobweb upon generation.
Between 0 and 2 libraries can generate per stronghold. Additionally, libraries can never generate within four rooms of the starting staircase.
Unlike all other rooms in the stronghold, it always generates with a complete outer wall, making it the only room that is consistently fully formed after generation.
Each portal frame has a 10% chance to generate containing an eye of ender ; the average number of portal frames found prefilled is 1.2. The chance of the portal being completely pre-filled is one in a trillion (1:1,000,000,000,000 or 10 -12 ).
Its entry door is always grates.
Small doors are the separating sub-structures that generate at the entrance of various rooms of strongholds. There are 4 types of door: the empty opening, the grates of iron bars, the wood door and the iron door.
They are generated randomly, with each having an equal chance of appearing, except for the empty opening which is twice as likely to occur. The start piece will always generate an opening, and the portal room will always generate grates.
In order to prevent two doors from generating directly adjacent to each other, they are generated only as room entrances.
Wood and iron doors always face the direction in which the stronghold generates: a door that is flush with the wall always leads away from the starting staircase, while a door that is indented into the wall leads toward it.
They consist of a vertical one-block wide ring of stone bricks, the same size as a normal corridor. For them to generate, the game checks for, in order:
When these criteria are met, it generates up to 3 filler corridors sub-structures, stacked horizontally on the same y-level, starting from the selected exit until it hits the other room's outer wall, in which in most cases makes a dent or an opening. In this way, the filler corridor is usually able to connects up near parts of the strongholds in order to form a denser network of passages.
Unlike every other stronghold room, these pieces do not generate doors.
In Java Edition , each stronghold altar chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each stronghold altar chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Storeroom chests are found in the "store" room variant of large rooms.
In Java Edition , each stronghold storeroom chest contains 1–4 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each stronghold storeroom chest contains 1–4 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition , each stronghold library chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each stronghold library chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Stronghold" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A Nether fortress is an uncommon large structure made of Nether bricks found in the Nether , consisting of bridges, corridors, and towers. Nether fortresses are the only place where wither skeletons and blazes spawn. They also contain Nether wart .
Nether fortresses generate in all Nether biomes. To do so, the game splits the Nether into regions in which one of either a fortress or a bastion remnant can generate. The regions are 432×432 blocks in Java Edition and 480×480 blocks in Bedrock Edition .
Each region has a four chunk separation located on the south and east borders of the region in which neither a fortress nor a bastion can generate.
This leaves only a 368×368 block section in Java Edition or 416×416 block section in Bedrock Edition where a structure can generate.
Two structures never generate in the same region, although they might overlap if they generate close to the separation border. The chance of a fortress attempting to generate instead of a bastion is 2 ⁄ 5 (40%) in Java Edition and 1 ⁄ 3 (33.3%) in Bedrock Edition . However, if a bastion attempts to generate in the basalt deltas , a fortress generates instead, resulting in fortresses being the most common in the basalt deltas.
Nether fortresses can generate buried in netherrack . In such a case, the interior is not filled with netherrack ; all hallways and passages are clear except for open walkways and bridges. It is possible but rare for glowstone or crimson and warped huge fungi to generate inside the fortress pathways.
Nether fortresses are large complexes composed of Nether bricks supported by pillars that tower high above the lava seas .
The fortress generation starts with a plain four-way crossing centered at chunk coordinates 11, ~, 11 of the designated chunk .
A fortress has two areas, an exterior area of open bridges and an interior area of enclosed corridors. Both the bridges and corridors can end in an unfinished passageway structure or may simply end without elaboration. Fortresses can tunnel through netherrack , giving the "exterior" areas an appearance of tunnels with Nether brick floor and netherrack walls and ceilings. At broken sections the terrain is not cleared, which may create a tunnel that leads straight into a wall of netherrack .
The exterior consists of:
The interior of the structures have 1×2 windows with Nether brick fences as the windowpanes. The fences also form gate-like structures at the entrances of some rooms and corridors. Rooms include:
The structure bounding box for the 4-way intersection is pictured above (top-down view), and consists of a 19×11×19 volume centered on the floor block in the center of the intersection. This contrasts many of the other structure bounding boxes as their outlines tend to tightly follow the physical bounds of the structure. Notably, this also means that the fortress supports, which generate outside of that volume and go down to the ground and often into the lava ocean, are not considered part of the fortress for spawning purposes.
The area bounding box is a rectangular box that covers the entire fortress (again, excluding the supports). This is simply the smallest rectangular bounding box that can hold the bounding boxes of all structure pieces in the fortress.
Fortresses use a list of possible mobs to spawn that is separate from the rest of the Nether , regardless of the biome the fortress generates in. This includes zombified piglins , skeletons , and magma cubes , as well as two exclusive mobs not found anywhere else: blazes and wither skeletons .
Mobs spawn at a much higher rate if the fortress is surrounded by soul sand valley or warped forest biomes, as hostile mobs in these biomes spawn much less frequently, allowing more hostile mobs to spawn in the fortress‌ [ JE only ] [1] .
In Java Edition , the spawning algorithm has two checks:
If either check passes, it uses the special mob list for fortresses rather than the list for the biome when choosing the mob to spawn. The actual mob spawning proceeds as normal for the mob chosen from this list.
In Bedrock Edition , instead of spawning anywhere within a structural bounding box, most mobs spawn only in structure spawn locations along varied-length lines spaced apart 4-11 blocks throughout the fortress. They are not set to a particular Y level other than "inside the structure" and are indeed columns several blocks high. They do not require any special type of block, any regular spawnable block suffices.
To identify these spawning columns, glass panes or iron bars can be placed all over the fortress, 1 block above surface blocks. This keeps the mobs stationary. (This technique works in Bedrock because structure spawns occur in the northwest corner of blocks.) Note that these spots may be on top of the raised side blocks, so these side blocks have to be removed before a glass pane grid can be placed.
Fortresses generate Nether fortress loot with chests in the indoor sections placed at some corridor turns.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each nether fortress chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Nether Fortress" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Ocean monuments , also known as simply monuments , are rare underwater structures found in deep ocean biomes and variants. They are inhabited by guardians and elder guardians . They are the only place where sponges can be found and one of the two places where prismarine can be found; the other being ocean ruins .
Ocean monuments generate in areas with deep ocean biome variants everywhere within a 16 block square radius around the center point, and an aquatic biome (regular/deep/frozen ocean or regular/frozen river) everywhere within a 29 block square radius around the center point. In order to prevent air pockets, water generates around the monument as a part of the structure. The four blocks in the exact middle always generate each in a different chunk. It is the largest structure that does not contain a loot chest and the largest structure found underwater. An ocean monument can also overwrite other structures like strongholds during generation. A maximum of one ocean monument may generate in every 512×512 block area.
In Bedrock Edition , ocean monuments always generate at the same Y-level , with the top of the roof always at Y=56. Seafloor surrounding the monument is cut off if it is higher than the monument's base.
They can be located with ocean explorer maps , which are bought from apprentice-level cartographer villagers with emeralds .
The area of the ocean monument spawns only guardians after generating, also being the only location they spawn. Ocean monuments always contain three elder guardians – one at the top and one in each wing.
in Bedrock Edition , the particle of the elder guardian inflicting Mining Fatigue III is a separate entity, the elder guardian ghost .
The monument is constructed entirely from variants of prismarine and lit by sea lanterns . It includes a large central section flanked by two wings. Under the monument are 23 giant pillars that stretch to the ocean floor. The main entrance is located at the front of the central section. The base size of the structure is 58×58 blocks. Thus, the ocean monument (the location where guardians and elder guardians spawn) area is 3,364 square blocks.
The central section consists of various types of chambers. The chambers are randomly generated; each monument has a different number of rooms (at least six) arranged in a unique manner. Small random connections can generate inside by edges. The chambers connect vertically and horizontally to the different parts of the monument, including the left and right wings. At the topmost room resides an elder guardian. Around the center of the central section lies the treasure chamber, a tall room with eight blocks of gold encased in dark prismarine .
Occasionally, monuments contain one or more rooms with approximately 30 wet sponges on the ceiling. Sponge rooms have an opening only in the floor. Ocean monuments are not guaranteed to generate sponge rooms.
One of the wings contains a large room with a small pillar at the center. The room contains a second elder guardian. The other wing consists of a large open space with a large, square-shaped platform, containing another elder guardian. A long hallway that arcs around the wings and the back portion of the monument connects the two wings together.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Ocean monument", "Water dungeon", or "Water temple" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A woodland mansion is a massive systematically-generated structure found in dark forests and pale gardens . It is often found far away from the world spawn point . A mansion is inhabited by vindicators , evokers , and allays and is one of the only places where totems of undying can be obtained. They are primarily made of dark oak wood and cobblestone, and are filled with various rooms. Besides illagers , a mansion's interior lighting is sufficiently low for other Overworld monsters to spawn.
Woodland mansions generate rarely in dark and pale forests. They can be located with woodland explorer maps , which are obtained from cartographer villagers , but a map may not always point to the nearest one. The nearest woodland mansion may also be located via the / locate structure mansion command enabled by cheats.
A woodland mansion naturally generates vindicators , evokers , and allays inside the mansion, but because the entrance is open and most rooms in the woodland mansion are dark, Overworld mobs sometimes spawn in these rooms or come in through the entrance at night.
The first floor of the mansion may only generate rooms that contain vindicators; from the second floor upward, some large rooms may contain both evokers and vindicators. Rarely, a vindicator can spawn in the corridors and hallways.
Allays are found imprisoned in cells inside "jail" rooms, often guarded by a vindicator.
Once all the vindicators and evokers are killed in a woodland mansion, they do not respawn, unlike pillagers , who respawn constantly in and around pillager outposts .
Although their exact structure varies, all woodland mansions have some things in common: they all have three floors with a variety of rooms, and generate a cobblestone foundation underneath the entire structure if there are any gaps between the bottom of the mansion and the ground. The top floor is about half the size of the lower floors, but its size is random for each mansion, depending on how many rooms are generated on the top floor. Each mansion includes a large foyer that leads to the corridors connecting the rooms. A giant staircase, which leads up to the second floor, generates in the large foyer. The foyer is dark and hostile mobs can spawn under the staircase.
A woodland mansion contains many types of rooms. Because the layout is randomly generated, some room types may not be present. Furthermore, certain rooms within the mansion are not readily accessible – some may have sealed entrances, while secret rooms have no entrances at all.
One may access the individual structures of a woodland mansion by using structure blocks to manually load room structures from the /data/minecraft/structures/woodland_mansion folder in minecraft.jar . To do so, set a structure block to Load mode, enter woodland_mansion/ structure_name , and press LOAD. A list of possible rooms, the names of these structures, and small descriptions are provided in the table below. Note that the room names are conjectural.
A woodland mansion can sometimes generate secret rooms on each floor. A secret room can be one of the following type: "X" room, spider room, fake end portal room, obsidian room, birch pillar room, clean chest room, lava room, and attic room, with the attic room being the most common, and the "lava" room being the rarest. One method to look for secret rooms is to look for gaps between normal rooms, this way is best on the first floor, as there are no windows. Another way is looking through the windows on the second and third floors of the mansion, since some secret rooms are exposed to windows. A final method to look for a secret room is cutting down the roof, which works best for the third floor alone. Then the player can see any secret rooms from the roof of the floor, as well as the whole floor's layout.
In the table below, a structure block indicates either a chest with random loot, or the spawn point of an illager .
49 Birch Planks 40 Cobblestone 10 Cobblestone Wall 7 Cobblestone Stairs 2 Potted Allium 1 Potted Blue Orchid 1 Potted Azure Bluet 1 Potted Oxeye Daisy
49 Birch Planks 30 Cobblestone Stairs 19 Dark Oak Stairs 18 Rail 15 Ladder 12 Cobblestone 1 Carved Pumpkin
49 Birch Planks 10 Cobblestone Stairs 8 Cobblestone 3 Oak Stairs 3 Potted Red Tulip 3 Light Gray Carpet 1 Oak Planks
68 Oak Fence 49 Birch Planks 40 Dark Oak Log 15 Gray Carpet 13 Light Gray Carpet 1 Chest (random loot)
49 Birch Planks 46 Cobblestone 22 Dark Oak Stairs 9 Cobblestone Stairs 7 Dark Oak Planks 6 Cobblestone Slab 1 Potted White Tulip
120 Cobblestone 49 Birch Planks 1 Chest (random loot)
95 Cobweb 49 Birch Planks 1 Spider Monster Spawner
49 Birch Planks 19 Obsidian 1 Block of Diamond
85 Birch Planks
80 Birch Planks 39 Birch Stairs 9 Birch Slab 6 Birch Fence 1 Potted Azure Bluet 1 Pink Carpet
49 Birch Planks 14 Oak Stairs 10 Dark Oak Planks 10 Light Gray Carpet 4 Dark Oak Stairs 2 Black Carpet 2 Dark Oak Fence 2 Oak Planks
49 Birch Planks 13 Cobblestone 7 Cobblestone Slab 6 Oak Slab 4 Red Wool 3 Cobblestone Stairs 2 White Wool 1 Dark Oak Fence 1 Dark Oak Leaves 1 Oak Planks
49 Birch Planks 24 Dark Oak Stairs 20 Oak Planks 12 Bookshelf 9 Oak Stairs 7 Oak Slab 1 Potted Allium
55 Oak Fence 49 Birch Planks 16 Oak Planks 6 Vines 5 Potted Allium 1 Chest (8 Allium ) 1 Water Cauldron
105 Birch Planks 82 Cobblestone 12 Cobblestone Slab 11 Cobblestone Stairs 1 Gray Banner 1 Chest (random loot) 1 Vindicator
105 Birch Planks 32 Farmland 32 Wheat Crops 30 Dark Oak Log 8 Water 8 Lily Pad 6 Torch 6 Dark Oak Fence 4 Dark Oak Planks 4 Oak Stairs 3 Dark Oak Stairs 1 White Carpet
146 Polished Andesite 105 Birch Planks 55 Smooth Stone Slab 15 Double Smooth Stone Slab 2 Lava 1 Damaged Anvil 1 Vindicator
129 Oak Planks 105 Birch Planks 58 Dirt 58 Dark Oak Sapling 42 Ladder 39 Green Carpet 1 Chest (28 Dark Oak Sapling )
105 Birch Planks 56 Light Blue Wool 46 Blue Wool 19 Cyan Wool
Due to a bug in Bedrock Edition , the iron axe was replaced with a leather cap with Efficiency I.
105 Birch Planks 79 Dark Oak Leaves 20 Dark Oak Planks 20 Dark Oak Log 9 Dirt 1 Chest 1 Iron Axe with Efficiency I
In Java Edition , due to a bug, no mushrooms generated in this room before 1.20. [1]
105 Birch Planks 71 Oak Planks 24 Oak Stairs 21 Coarse Dirt 20 Oak Fence 20 Dark Oak Log 11 Red Mushroom 10 Brown Mushroom 1 Chest
105 Birch Planks 42 Dark Oak Log 40 Dark Oak Planks 32 Dirt 32 Farmland 20 Oak Planks 16 Water 16 Pumpkin Stem 16 Melon Stem 16 Pumpkin 16 Melon 5 Oak Slab 1 Torch 1 Oak Fence 1 Vindicator
117 Oak Slab 105 Birch Planks 66 Oak Planks 42 Chest 1 Vindicator
211 Cobblestone 71 Cobblestone Wall 42 Birch Planks 6 Cobblestone Slab 6 Cobblestone Stairs 5 Redstone Dust 4 Brown Carpet 2 Iron Door 1 Lever 1 Cauldron 1 Vindicator
213 Cobblestone 105 Birch Planks 8 Cobblestone Wall 7 Oak Stairs 6 Cobblestone Slab 3 Cobblestone Stairs 2 Oak Planks 1 Lever 2 Brown Carpet 1 Iron Door 1 Cauldron 1 Vindicator
105 Birch Planks 65 Dark Oak Log 1 Chest (random loot) 1 Vindicator
289 Dark Oak Planks 105 Birch Planks 50 Oak Slab 1 Oak Planks 1 Chest (random loot)
105 Birch Planks 26 Light Gray Wool 14 Dark Oak Planks 5 Gray Wool 2 White Wool 2 Green Wool 2 Black Wool
135 Cobblestone 105 Birch Planks 60 Cobblestone Stairs 26 Birch Stairs 26 Light Gray Wool 24 Red Carpet 14 Dark Oak Planks 14 Dark Oak Stairs 5 Gray Wool 3 Cobblestone Wall 2 White Wool 2 Green Wool 2 Black Wool
105 Birch Planks 19 Oak Stairs 19 White Carpet 13 Dark Oak Fence 6 Oak Planks 5 Gray Carpet 4 Oak Slab 4 Torch 1 Potted Oxeye Daisy
105 Birch Planks 12 White Wool 8 Purple Carpet 5 Oak Stairs 4 Pink Carpet 1 Potted Allium 1 White Carpet
18 White Wool 12 Blue Carpet 6 Light Blue Carpet 5 Oak Stairs 3 Vindicator 2 Oak Planks 1 Potted Azure Bluet
105 Birch Planks 48 Oak Stairs 24 Bookshelf 16 Oak Fence 14 Oak Planks 1 Potted Dandelion 1 Potted Poppy 1 Potted Red Tulip 1 Potted Oxeye Daisy
117 Cobblestone 112 Birch Planks 61 Cobblestone Stairs 35 Birch Stairs 26 Light Gray Wool 14 Dark Oak Planks 14 Dark Oak Stairs 12 Red Carpet 5 Gray Wool 2 White Wool 2 White Carpet 2 Black Wool 2 Green Wool
112 Birch Planks 26 Oak Slab 17 Oak Stairs 16 Oak Fence 13 Oak Planks 12 White Wool 9 Red Carpet 4 Birch Stairs 3 Light Gray Banner 1 Potted Birch Sapling 1 Potted Oxeye Daisy 1 Bookshelf 1 Light Gray Carpet
105 Birch Planks 78 Oak Planks 18 Oak Stairs 18 White Wool 9 Red Carpet 7 Oak Fence 6 Ladder 4 Cyan Carpet 2 Light Blue Carpet 2 Dark Oak Door 1 Potted Red Tulip 1 Chest (random loot)
105 Birch Planks 101 Cobblestone 27 Cobblestone Stairs 9 Cobblestone Slab 6 White Carpet 2 Black Banner 1 Black Carpet 2 Vindicator 1 Evoker
143 Black Wool 105 Birch Planks 12 White Wool 2 Lime Wool
105 Birch Planks 98 White Wool 11 Orange Wool 2 Gray Wool
105 Birch Planks 4 Torch 4 Dark Oak Fence 1 Chest (random loot)
105 Birch Planks 24 Infested Cobblestone 12 Green Wool 9 Orange Wool 9 Cobblestone Stairs 2 TNT 1 Trapped Chest (2 Ender Pearl )
144 Dark Oak Planks 105 Birch Planks 102 Dark Oak Log 30 Dark Oak Stairs 2 Chest (random loot)
597 Cobblestone 225 Birch Planks 39 Cobblestone Wall 20 Cobblestone Slab 12 Brown Carpet 4 Iron Door 4 Cauldron 4 Polished Andesite 4 Lever 3 Iron Bars 2 Cobblestone Stairs 1-3 Allay 1 Vindicator
225 Birch Planks 85 Oak Planks 78 Oak Slab 32 Red Carpet 26 Chest 2 Potted Blue Orchid 1 Vindicator
225 Birch Planks 182 Light Gray Wool 18 Brown Wool 7 Black Wool 5 Gray Wool 4 White Wool 4 Yellow Wool 2 Green Wool 1 Block of Lapis Lazuli
225 Birch Planks 124 Polished Andesite 62 Dark Oak Leaves 48 Smooth Stone Slab 9 Dirt 4 Dark Oak Log 2 Water
225 Birch Planks 32 Oak Stairs 14 White Carpet 14 Oak Planks 12 Oak Fence 9 Oak Slab 8 Torch 4 Magenta Carpet 3 Potted Birch Sapling 2 Vindicator 1 Evoker
225 Birch Planks 58 Oak Stairs 21 Oak Planks 16 Oak Fence 10 White Carpet 8 Torch 5 Potted White Tulip 2 Vindicator 1 Evoker
225 Birch Planks 180 Bookshelf 32 Oak Stairs 82 Oak Planks 4 Oak Slab
225 Birch Planks 36 Oak Planks 28 Oak Stairs 14 Lime Carpet 9 Bookshelf 9 Oak Fence 8 Blue Carpet 4 Torch 3 Yellow Carpet 2 Vindicator 1 Evoker
225 Birch Planks 152 Oak Planks 52 Oak Fence 49 Double Smooth Stone Slab 46 Dark Oak Fence 10 Ladder 5 Oak Stairs 3 Smooth Stone Slab 2 Dark Oak Fence Gate 1 Chest (random loot)
225 Birch Planks 98 - 110 Obsidian 99 Glass 25 Lava 1 Block of Diamond
2 White Carpet 6 Red Carpet
2 White Carpet 6 Red Carpet
24 Birch Planks 21 Dark Oak Planks 9 Red Carpet 4 White Carpet 2 Dark Oak Fence 2 Torch
24 Birch Planks 21 Dark Oak Planks 9 Red Carpet 4 White Carpet 2 Dark Oak Fence 2 Dark Oak Stairs 2 Torch
24 Birch Planks 21 Dark Oak Planks 9 Red Carpet 4 White Carpet 2 Dark Oak Fence 2 Torch
24 Birch Planks 21 Dark Oak Planks 9 Red Carpet 4 White Carpet 2 Dark Oak Fence 2 Dark Oak Stairs 2 Torch
49 Birch Planks 16 White Carpet 9 Red Carpet
495 Dark Oak Planks 360 Birch Planks 222 Cobblestone 191 Red Carpet 146 Dark Oak Log 127 Cobblestone Stairs 40 Glass Pane 40 White Carpet 35 Dark Oak Stairs 25 Cobblestone Slab 19 Cobblestone Wall 18 Dark Oak Fence 17 Birch Fence 4 Torch
44 Dark Oak Planks 8 Birch Planks 2 Dark Oak Stairs
60 Dark Oak Planks 8 Dark Oak Log 8 Birch Planks 2 Dark Oak Stairs
48 Dark Oak Planks 8 Dark Oak Log 8 Birch Planks
64 Dark Oak Planks 16 Dark Oak Log 8 Birch Planks
64 Dark Oak Planks
16 Dark Oak Stairs 12 Dark Oak Planks 8 Cobblestone
32 Dark Oak Planks 32 Dark Oak Stairs 16 Cobblestone
20 Dark Oak Planks 16 Dark Oak Stairs 8 Cobblestone
13 Cobblestone 3 Cobblestone Wall
21 Dark Oak Planks 10 Cobblestone Stairs 8 Cobblestone 3 Dark Oak Log
25 Cobblestone 7 Cobblestone Wall
54 Dark Oak Planks 16 Cobblestone 5 Cobblestone Stairs 4 Dark Oak Log 3 Cobblestone Wall
31 Dark Oak Planks 19 Dark Oak Log 15 Cobblestone 12 Glass Pane 7 Cobblestone Stairs 6 Cobblestone Wall 4 Dark Oak Fence
In Java Edition , each woodland mansion chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each woodland mansion chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
Also, there can be found 8 alliums in a chest in the "Allium room", 28 dark oak saplings in a chest in the "Sapling farm", 2 ender pearls in a trapped chest in the "Fake End portal room", and an iron axe with Efficiency I in the "Tree-chopping room".
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Woodland Mansion" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An ancient city is a palatial structure found in deep dark biomes at Y=-51, that harbors chests containing items , such as disc fragments , armor trims and echo shards , that cannot be found anywhere else. It is also one of the only two places where sculk sensors can be found.
Ancient cities cannot generate overlapping each other; however, they can generate directly adjacent to each other. [1]
Because they can only generate in the deep dark, they will often be found under mountains and other places with low erosion .
An ancient city features a very large palace with a footprint of around 220 blocks on each horizontal axis, stretching throughout a deep dark biome. The floor of the city always generates at Y=-51. The palace is made up of long corridors with 2-block-deep floors of gray wool , with the occasional rugs of blue, light blue, and cyan wool or carpet floors to reduce vibrations. Off to the sides of the main corridors are smaller ruin structures, which often contain one or two loot chests . The city's center features a frame that contains exclusive reinforced deepslate blocks, though these are unobtainable in Survival mode. Other unique blocks such as soul lanterns , candles , and different forms of deepslate and sculk can be found throughout the city. Sculk shriekers generate much more frequently in ancient cities than in the normal deep dark biome. The city always generates at the same position within a chunk (for example, the blocks that make up the center frame structure are always on the western edge of a chunk).
Some of the city's structures resemble other elements of the game. The city center bears a resemblance to early iterations of the warden's design , and other structures are similar in appearance to pillager outposts , the wool rooms in woodland mansions , and abandoned mineshafts .
The following three renders are of the same individual ancient city.
Underneath the frame at the city center lies a series of hidden basement rooms with naturally generating redstone circuitry .
The secret entrance is located at the base of the structure, underneath the wooden bridge between the city center and the wall. There is a piston door that is controlled by a sculk sensor in the basement's redstone circuits.
For city_center_1 , there is a chiseled deepslate block in front of the frame. Making a vibration around it can activate the sculk sensor and then open the piston door. There is also a pulse extender between the sculk sensor and piston door, which makes the piston door close 180 game ticks after the sculk sensor is deactivated.
The circuit in city_center_2 is similar to the former, but with a signal strength filter. Only vibrations with a frequency equal to 8 (eating or drinking) can activate the piston door. Creating these vibrations on the path in the front of the frame in the city center activates the door.
For city_center_3 , making a vibration on the path in front of the frame on the city center can activate the sculk sensor. Additionally, there is a T flip-flop between the sculk sensor and piston door. After the sculk sensor is activated, the piston door remains open until the sculk sensor is activated again.
There are three basic redstone circuits in the basement:
All ancient city structures found below are located in the folder client.jar /data/minecraft/structures/ancient_city ‌ [ JE only ] , data/structures/ancient_city ‌ [ BE only ] .
3 Candle (1 candle in one block) 6 Candle (2 candles in one block) 6 Candle (3 candles in one block) 5 Candle (4 candles in one block) 72 Chiseled Deepslate 928 Deepslate 21 Deepslate Brick Slab 9 Deepslate Brick Stairs 96 Deepslate Bricks 299 Deepslate Tile Stairs 595 Deepslate Tiles 138 Polished Basalt 416 Polished Deepslate 12 Polished Deepslate Wall 40 Smooth Basalt 6 Soul Lantern
12 Candle (1 candle in one block) 5 Candle (2 candles in one block) 5 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 78 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Cobbled Deepslate Slab 899 Deepslate 25 Deepslate Brick Slab 6 Deepslate Brick Stairs 41 Deepslate Bricks 305 Deepslate Tile Stairs 731 Deepslate Tiles 138 Polished Basalt 437 Polished Deepslate 3 Polished Deepslate Slab 14 Polished Deepslate Wall 48 Smooth Basalt 7 Soul Lantern
10 Candle (1 candle in one block) 4 Candle (2 candles in one block) 4 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 59 Chiseled Deepslate 21 Dark Oak Planks 810 Deepslate 22 Deepslate Brick Slab 6 Deepslate Brick Stairs 39 Deepslate Bricks 9 Deepslate Tile Slab 254 Deepslate Tile Stairs 2,357 Deepslate Tiles 12 Ladder 113 Polished Basalt 348 Polished Deepslate 15 Polished Deepslate Wall 39 Smooth Basalt 7 Soul Lantern
8 Candle (1 candle in one block) 3 Candle (2 candles in one block) 3 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 36 Chiseled Deepslate 4 Cobbled Deepslate 12 Cobbled Deepslate Wall 21 Dark Oak Fence 26 Dark Oak Log 93 Dark Oak Planks 566 Deepslate 20 Deepslate Brick Slab 4 Deepslate Brick Stairs 50 Deepslate Bricks 4 Deepslate Tile Slab 153 Deepslate Tile Stairs 2,163 Deepslate Tiles 18 Ladder 90 Polished Basalt 210 Polished Deepslate 8 Polished Deepslate Wall 31 Smooth Basalt 4 Soul Lantern 4 Torch
8 Candle (1 candle in one block) 3 Candle (2 candles in one block) 3 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 28 Chiseled Deepslate 2 Cobbled Deepslate 9 Cobbled Deepslate Wall 13 Dark Oak Fence 20 Dark Oak Log 81 Dark Oak Planks 548 Deepslate 20 Deepslate Brick Slab 4 Deepslate Brick Stairs 56 Deepslate Bricks 3 Deepslate Tile Slab 139 Deepslate Tile Stairs 2,137 Deepslate Tiles 18 Ladder 4 Light Blue Carpet 91 Polished Basalt 184 Polished Deepslate 4 Polished Deepslate Wall 28 Smooth Basalt 2 Soul Lantern 1 Torch
5 Candle (1 candle in one block) 3 Candle (2 candles in one block) 1 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 13 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Dark Oak Log 18 Dark Oak Planks 373 Deepslate 13 Deepslate Brick Slab 2 Deepslate Brick Stairs 39 Deepslate Bricks 2 Deepslate Tile Slab 76 Deepslate Tile Stairs 1,924 Deepslate Tiles 12 Ladder 3 Light Blue Carpet 72 Polished Basalt 93 Polished Deepslate 19 Smooth Basalt
2 Block of Redstone 23 Candle (1 candle in one block) 12 Candle (2 candles in one block) 13 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 8 Chiseled Deepslate 353 Cobbled Deepslate 6 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 4 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 1,476 Deepslate 29 Deepslate Brick Slab 9 Deepslate Brick Wall 3,346 Deepslate Bricks 69 Deepslate Tile Stairs 1,731 Deepslate Tiles 4 Dirt 1 Glass 138 Glass Pane 44 Grass Block 221 Gray Carpet 199 Gray Wool 1 Lectern 1 Lever 4 Piston Head 9 Polished Deepslate Wall 8 Redstone Comparator 20 Redstone Lamp 8 Redstone Repeater 1 Redstone Wall Torch 41 Redstone Dust 56 Reinforced Deepslate 1 Sculk Sensor (Waterlogged) 57 Soul Fire 6 Soul Lantern 57 Soul Sand 5 Sticky Piston 1 Target
2 Block of Redstone 23 Candle (1 candle in one block) 12 Candle (2 candles in one block) 14 Candle (3 candles in one block) 3 Candle (4 candles in one block) 1 Chest (with 1 Golden Apple ) 6 Chiseled Deepslate 350 Cobbled Deepslate 6 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 4 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 1,476 Deepslate 40 Deepslate Brick Slab 31 Deepslate Brick Stairs 9 Deepslate Brick Wall 3,232 Deepslate Bricks 11 Deepslate Tile Slab 74 Deepslate Tile Stairs 1,751 Deepslate Tiles 4 Dirt 1 Furnace (with 1 Wooden Shovel 24 Deepslate and some xp ) 4 Glass 136 Glass Pane 44 Grass Block 221 Gray Carpet 158 Gray Wool 1 Lectern 4 Piston Head 2 Polished Deepslate Slab 9 Polished Deepslate Wall 9 Redstone Comparator 19 Redstone Lamp 8 Redstone Repeater 3 Redstone Wall Torch 45 Redstone Dust 56 Reinforced Deepslate 1 Sculk Sensor (Waterlogged) 57 Soul Fire 6 Soul Lantern 57 Soul Sand 5 Sticky Piston 1 Target
2 Block of Redstone 23 Candle (1 candle in one block) 12 Candle (2 candles in one block) 13 Candle (3 candles in one block) 2 Candle (4 candles in one block) 7 Chiseled Deepslate 350 Cobbled Deepslate 6 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 4 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 1,476 Deepslate 29 Deepslate Brick Slab 9 Deepslate Brick Wall 3,287 Deepslate Bricks 65 Deepslate Tile Stairs 10 Deepslate Tile Wall 1,704 Deepslate Tiles 4 Dirt 2 Glass 136 Glass Pane 44 Grass Block 221 Gray Carpet 173 Gray Wool 1 Lectern 4 Piston Head 2 Polished Deepslate Slab 6 Polished Deepslate Stairs 9 Polished Deepslate Wall 2 Redstone Comparator 4 Redstone Lamp 13 Redstone Repeater 4 Redstone Torch 8 Redstone Wall Torch 52 Redstone Dust 56 Reinforced Deepslate 1 Sculk Sensor (Waterlogged) 57 Soul Fire 6 Soul Lantern 57 Soul Sand 5 Sticky Piston 1 Target
117 Chiseled Deepslate 9 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 11 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 12 Dark Oak Fence 28 Dark Oak Planks 281 Deepslate 41 Deepslate Brick Stairs 669 Deepslate Bricks 4 Deepslate Tile Slab 169 Deepslate Tile Stairs 12 Deepslate Tile Wall 52 Deepslate Tiles 493 Gray Wool 30 Polished Deepslate 57 Polished Deepslate Stairs 4 Redstone Lamp 4 Sculk Sensor (Waterlogged)
87 Chiseled Deepslate 9 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 11 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 10 Dark Oak Fence 20 Dark Oak Planks 260 Deepslate 40 Deepslate Brick Stairs 651 Deepslate Bricks 2 Deepslate Tile Slab 125 Deepslate Tile Stairs 12 Deepslate Tile Wall 52 Deepslate Tiles 484 Gray Wool 31 Polished Deepslate 32 Polished Deepslate Stairs 3 Redstone Lamp 1 Sculk Sensor 2 Sculk Sensor (Waterlogged)
59 Chiseled Deepslate 63 Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Stairs 198 Deepslate Bricks 1 Deepslate Tile Slab 109 Deepslate Tile Stairs 8 Deepslate Tile Wall 14 Deepslate Tiles 172 Gray Wool
63 Chiseled Deepslate 67 Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Stairs 223 Deepslate Bricks 4 Deepslate Tile Slab 142 Deepslate Tile Stairs 8 Deepslate Tile Wall 14 Deepslate Tiles 247 Gray Wool
43 Chiseled Deepslate 8 Dark Oak Planks 36 Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Stairs 203 Deepslate Bricks 4 Deepslate Tile Slab 109 Deepslate Tile Stairs 6 Deepslate Tile Wall 20 Deepslate Tiles 154 Gray Wool 3 Light Blue Carpet
48 Chiseled Deepslate 65 Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Stairs 195 Deepslate Bricks 4 Deepslate Tile Slab 121 Deepslate Tile Stairs 6 Deepslate Tile Wall 14 Deepslate Tiles 172 Gray Wool
41 Chiseled Deepslate 1 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 120 Deepslate 16 Deepslate Brick Stairs 302 Deepslate Bricks 95 Deepslate Tile Stairs 6 Deepslate Tile Wall 7 Deepslate Tiles 242 Gray Wool 8 Polished Deepslate Stairs
41 Chiseled Deepslate 1 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 130 Deepslate 16 Deepslate Brick Stairs 288 Deepslate Bricks 98 Deepslate Tile Stairs 6 Deepslate Tile Wall 7 Deepslate Tiles 246 Gray Wool 8 Polished Deepslate Stairs
96 Chiseled Deepslate 362 Deepslate 44 Deepslate Brick Stairs 599 Deepslate Bricks 270 Deepslate Tile Stairs 10 Deepslate Tile Wall 20 Deepslate Tiles 566 Gray Wool 7 Polished Deepslate Stairs
59 Chiseled Deepslate 63 Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Stairs 198 Deepslate Bricks 113 Deepslate Tile Stairs 8 Deepslate Tile Wall 14 Deepslate Tiles 172 Gray Wool
55 Chiseled Deepslate 72 Deepslate 14 Deepslate Brick Stairs 186 Deepslate Bricks 1 Deepslate Tile Slab 115 Deepslate Tile Stairs 8 Deepslate Tile Wall 14 Deepslate Tiles 182 Gray Wool
2 Chest (with some loot: chests/ancient_city) 3 Chiseled Deepslate 28 Cobbled Deepslate 10 Cobbled Deepslate Stairs 1,140 Deepslate 7 Deepslate Brick Slab 45 Deepslate Brick Stairs 6 Deepslate Bricks 2 Deepslate Tile Slab 6 Deepslate Tile Stairs 205 Deepslate Tiles 95 Polished Deepslate 2 Polished Deepslate Wall 1 Skeleton Skull 2 Soul Fire 2 Soul Sand 7 White Candle (1 white candle in one block) 10 White Candle (2 white candles in one block) 5 White Candle (3 white candles in one block)
32 Blue Wool 117 Cobbled Deepslate 38 Cobbled Deepslate Stairs 19 Cyan Wool 3 Deepslate Bricks 25 Light Blue Wool
13 Blue Wool 1 Campfire 117 Cobbled Deepslate 44 Cobbled Deepslate Stairs 13 Cyan Wool 13 Dark Oak Log 3 Deepslate Bricks 16 Light Blue Wool
3 Blue Carpet 13 Blue Wool 1 Campfire 102 Cobbled Deepslate 27 Cobbled Deepslate Stairs 3 Deepslate Bricks 6 Light Blue Wool
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 10 Chiseled Deepslate 390 Cobbled Deepslate 2 Deepslate 197 Deepslate Bricks 64 Deepslate Tiles
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 5 Chiseled Deepslate 155 Cobbled Deepslate 1 Deepslate 78 Deepslate Bricks 33 Deepslate Tiles
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 3 Chiseled Deepslate 85 Cobbled Deepslate 1 Deepslate 75 Deepslate Bricks 40 Deepslate Tiles
Inside is a chest with loot from a loot table specific to the ice box structure, as well as ice blocks and top snow scattered around the inside of the room.
12 Blue Ice 1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city_ice_box) 10 Chiseled Deepslate 384 Cobbled Deepslate 21 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 2 Deepslate 2 Deepslate Brick Stairs 228 Deepslate Bricks 150 Deepslate Tiles 8 Gray Carpet 9 Ice 1 Iron Trapdoor 3 Ladder 1 Lever 2 Note Block 62 Packed Ice 4 Polished Basalt 1 Polished Deepslate Slab 8 Polished Deepslate Stairs 30 Snow 3 Soul Lantern 3 Stone Pressure Plate
16 Chiseled Deepslate 135 Deepslate 64 Deepslate Tile Stairs 20 Deepslate Tiles 84 Polished Deepslate
35 Cobbled Deepslate 3 Deepslate Bricks
4 Chiseled Deepslate 87 Deepslate 2 Deepslate Tile Slab 20 Deepslate Tile Stairs 4 Deepslate Tiles 10 Polished Deepslate 1 Skeleton Skull
19 Cobbled Deepslate
29 Cobbled Deepslate
3 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 46 Chiseled Deepslate 157 Cracked Deepslate Bricks 23 Cracked Deepslate Tiles 73 Deepslate 1 Deepslate Brick Slab 1,038 Deepslate Bricks 3 Deepslate Tile Slab 69 Deepslate Tile Stairs 17 Deepslate Tile Stairs (Waterlogged) 342 Deepslate Tiles 43 Water 10 White Candle (1 white candle in one block) 14 White Candle (2 white candles in one block) 4 White Candle (3 white candles in one block) 3 White Candle (4 white candles in one block)
16 Cobbled Deepslate
16 Cobbled Deepslate
22 Cobbled Deepslate 32 Deepslate 4 Deepslate Brick Slab 2 Deepslate Brick Stairs 2 Deepslate Tile Slab 2 Deepslate Tiles 44 Polished Deepslate 2 Polished Deepslate Wall 3 White Candle (1 white candle in one block) 1 White Candle (4 white candles in one block)
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 5 Chiseled Deepslate 123 Deepslate Bricks 84 Deepslate Tile Slab 40 Deepslate Tile Stairs 4 Deepslate Tile Wall 199 Deepslate Tiles 92 Ladder 43 Polished Basalt 40 Polished Deepslate Wall 4 Soul Lantern
2 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 336 Deepslate Bricks 68 Deepslate Tile Stairs 65 Deepslate Tile Wall 371 Deepslate Tiles 66 Gray Carpet 7 Soul Lantern
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 87 Deepslate Bricks 30 Deepslate Tile Slab 33 Deepslate Tile Stairs 2 Deepslate Tile Wall 112 Deepslate Tiles 1 Ladder 21 Polished Deepslate Wall
1 Chest (with some loots: chests/ancient_city) 230 Deepslate Bricks 42 Deepslate Tile Stairs 22 Deepslate Tile Wall 225 Deepslate Tiles 24 Gray Carpet
1 Chiseled Deepslate 8 Deepslate Brick Stairs 305 Deepslate Bricks 157 Deepslate Tiles 436 Gray Wool 20 Ladder 5 Polished Basalt 89 Polished Deepslate 9 Soul Lantern
20 Chiseled Deepslate 183 Deepslate Bricks 82 Deepslate Tiles 216 Gray Wool 24 Polished Deepslate 2 Soul Lantern
18 Chiseled Deepslate 182 Deepslate Bricks 79 Deepslate Tiles 216 Gray Wool 24 Polished Deepslate 2 Soul Lantern
2 Chiseled Deepslate 20 Deepslate Brick Stairs 319 Deepslate Bricks 20 Deepslate Tile Slab 28 Deepslate Tile Stairs 127 Deepslate Tiles 176 Gray Wool 10 Soul Lantern
13 Chiseled Deepslate 4 Deepslate Brick Stairs 161 Deepslate Bricks 16 Deepslate Tile Stairs 36 Deepslate Tiles 112 Gray Wool 11 Polished Deepslate 4 Soul Lantern
16 Chiseled Deepslate 166 Deepslate Bricks 12 Deepslate Tile Stairs 81 Deepslate Tiles 226 Gray Wool 27 Polished Deepslate 3 Soul Lantern
20 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Deepslate Brick Stairs 177 Deepslate Bricks 9 Deepslate Tile Slab 3 Deepslate Tile Stairs 79 Deepslate Tiles 220 Gray Wool 26 Polished Deepslate 3 Soul Lantern
20 Chiseled Deepslate 2 Deepslate Brick Stairs 171 Deepslate Bricks 11 Deepslate Tile Slab 3 Deepslate Tile Stairs 81 Deepslate Tiles 220 Gray Wool 22 Polished Deepslate 5 Soul Lantern
12 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Deepslate Brick Stairs 4 Deepslate Brick Wall 100 Deepslate Bricks 9 Deepslate Tile Slab 25 Deepslate Tile Stairs 80 Deepslate Tiles 182 Gray Wool 20 Polished Deepslate 6 Soul Lantern
1 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Deepslate Brick Stairs 264 Deepslate Bricks 127 Deepslate Tiles 331 Gray Wool 15 Ladder 5 Polished Basalt 80 Polished Deepslate 8 Soul Lantern
1 Chiseled Deepslate 189 Deepslate Bricks 91 Deepslate Tiles 246 Gray Wool 10 Ladder 5 Polished Basalt 59 Polished Deepslate 5 Soul Lantern
4 Cobbled Deepslate 12 Cobbled Deepslate Wall 16 Dark Oak Fence 12 Dark Oak Log 97 Dark Oak Planks 297 Deepslate Bricks 149 Deepslate Tiles 360 Gray Wool 5 Ladder 20 Light Blue Carpet 20 Light Blue Wool 5 Polished Basalt 81 Polished Deepslate 8 Soul Lantern 4 Torch
1 Cobbled Deepslate 2 Dark Oak Log 37 Dark Oak Planks 250 Deepslate Bricks 146 Deepslate Tiles 344 Gray Wool 15 Light Blue Carpet 20 Light Blue Wool 59 Polished Deepslate 7 Soul Lantern
7 Chiseled Deepslate 83 Deepslate Bricks 3 Deepslate Tile Stairs 67 Deepslate Tiles 142 Gray Wool 14 Polished Deepslate 1 Soul Lantern
10 Blue Carpet 12 Chiseled Deepslate 3 Dark Oak Log 10 Dark Oak Planks 3 Deepslate Brick Stairs 111 Deepslate Bricks 29 Deepslate Tile Slab 3 Deepslate Tile Stairs 72 Deepslate Tiles 177 Gray Wool 16 Polished Deepslate 1 Soul Lantern
7 Chiseled Deepslate 10 Cyan Carpet 10 Dark Oak Planks 61 Deepslate Bricks 3 Deepslate Tile Slab 1 Deepslate Tile Stairs 52 Deepslate Tiles 102 Gray Wool 11 Polished Deepslate 3 Soul Lantern
2 Chiseled Deepslate 15 Deepslate Brick Slab 6 Deepslate Brick Stairs 61 Deepslate Bricks 112 Deepslate Tile Slab 28 Deepslate Tiles 30 Gray Wool 6 Polished Deepslate
The loot in the chests includes several useful items for exploring the ancient city, such as snowballs and the Swift Sneak enchantment, as well as items that cannot be found anywhere else, such as echo shards and two exclusive armor trims . Ancient city chests also have the second highest chance of any loot table to contain an enchanted golden apple — ominous vaults have a 22.5% chance.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each ancient city chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each ancient city ice box chest contains 4–10 item stacks, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Ancient City" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Bastion remnants , also simply referred to as bastions , [1] are large, castle-like generated structures found in the Nether in all of the biomes except basalt deltas . They generate in four distinct variants, each with a unique structure and set of loot. Piglins and piglin brutes spawn in these structures on generation, and hoglins may also spawn on generation in the bridge and hoglin stables variants. Bastion remnants are the only place to find gilded blackstone , the Pigstep music disc , the snout banner pattern and armor trim , monster spawners which spawn magma cubes , and the netherite upgrade smithing template.
Bastion remnants generate in all Nether biomes except basalt deltas, although a bastion may extend into one. If a bastion tries to generate in a basalt delta, the bastion does not generate and a Nether fortress generates instead. To generate the structure, the game splits the Nether into regions, in which either a Nether fortress or a bastion remnant can generate. The regions are 432×432 blocks in Java Edition and 480×480 blocks in Bedrock Edition . Each region has a 4-chunk separation located on the south and east borders of the region in which neither a fortress nor a bastion can generate. This leaves only a 368×368 block section in Java Edition or 416×416 block section in Bedrock Edition where a structure can generate. Two structures never generate in the same region, although they might overlap if they generate close to the separation border. In Java Edition , the chance of a bastion generating instead of a fortress is 3 ⁄ 5 (60%), while in Bedrock Edition the chance of a bastion generating instead of a fortress is 2 ⁄ 3 (66.6%). Each of the four variants of bastion remnants has an equal chance of generating.
Piglins, piglin brutes, and hoglins that spawn upon generation in bastion remnants neither despawn naturally nor do they hunt each other. Piglin brutes also spawn exclusively here upon structure generation, and do not despawn unless killed, or if difficulty is set to Peaceful. Like shulkers in end cities , once these mobs are killed, they do not respawn, though the bastion remnant continues to spawn normal mobs depending on the biome it is located in.
Bastion remnants generate as 4 types of structures: bridges, hoglin stables, housing units, and treasure rooms. Each type has its own set of structures that compose it. These structures may be supported by ramparts that contain cave-like paths. Piglins , piglin brutes , and hoglins spawn frequently throughout. Unlike Nether fortresses , when over the lava sea , they do not generate pillars of solid blocks down to the solid terrain beneath, but float above, entirely even. [2]
All bastion remnant structures found below are located in the folder client.jar /data/minecraft/structures/bastion .
The bridge consists of a large ruined rampart structure with a piglin face carved into it. The inside of the "mouth" consists of multiple levels of walkways surrounded by lava. A damaged bridge goes out from the mouth, with a support pillar on the far side.
1371 Polished Blackstone Bricks 316 Blackstone 155 Basalt 45 Polished Basalt 16 Block of Gold 8 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 5 Iron Chain 5 Lantern 4 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 4 Block of Quartz 2 Smooth Quartz Block 2 Smooth Quartz Slab 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
75 Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Blackstone
48 Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Blackstone
115 Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Blackstone
120 Polished Blackstone Bricks 38 Blackstone
260 Polished Blackstone Bricks 82 Basalt 38 Blackstone 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
2954 Polished Blackstone Bricks 491 Blackstone 235 Basalt 89 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Gilded Blackstone 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
4361 Polished Blackstone Bricks 496 Blackstone 346 Basalt 146 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 11 Gilded Blackstone 3 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Lantern 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
6548 Polished Blackstone Bricks 849 Blackstone 328 Basalt 47 Polished Basalt 38 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 30 Lava (source blocks) 11 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 11 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Blackstone Slab 7 Block of Gold 5 Gilded Blackstone 3 Iron Chain 2 Lantern 1 Loot Chest (Bridge) 14 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 2 Hoglin [ n 3 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
10685 Blackstone 2953 Polished Blackstone Bricks 396 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 52 Lava (source blocks) 10 Basalt 7 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Block of Gold 2 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 1 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 7 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
517 Polished Blackstone Bricks 136 Basalt 49 Blackstone 13 Polished Basalt 12 Netherrack
4854 Blackstone 228 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Block of Gold 2 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
5034 Blackstone 213 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Lantern 1 Polished Blackstone Bricks
The hoglin stables consist of a three-part rampart with damaged hoglin stables on either side. Hoglin stables' pieces are contained in the subfolder hoglin_stable . They contain the hoglin stable chests.
168 Polished Blackstone Bricks 74 Basalt 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 5 Blackstone Slab 5 Blackstone Wall 1 Lantern
146 Polished Blackstone Bricks 61 Basalt 19 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Blackstone 11 Blackstone Slab 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Lantern 2 Soul Sand 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
225 Polished Blackstone Bricks 39 Basalt 29 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 7 Blackstone Slab 5 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Soul Sand 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
246 Polished Blackstone Bricks 33 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 32 Basalt 7 Gilded Blackstone 3 Lantern 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Lava 1 Blackstone 1 Loot Chest (Hoglin Stable) 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
235 Polished Blackstone Bricks 47 Basalt 47 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Blackstone Wall 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
166 Polished Blackstone Bricks 76 Basalt 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 5 Blackstone Slab 3 Blackstone Wall 3 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
145 Polished Blackstone Bricks 62 Basalt 19 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Blackstone 12 Blackstone Slab 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 2 Soul Sand 1 Blackstone Wall 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
225 Polished Blackstone Bricks 38 Basalt 30 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 7 Blackstone Slab 5 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Soul Sand 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
252 Polished Blackstone Bricks 33 Basalt 32 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 5 Blackstone Wall 4 Blackstone 1 Lantern 1 Lava (source block)
235 Polished Blackstone Bricks 48 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 46 Basalt 4 Blackstone Wall 1 Lantern
260 Polished Blackstone Bricks 81 Basalt 38 Blackstone 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
4055 Polished Blackstone Bricks 459 Blackstone 346 Basalt 130 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 9 Gilded Blackstone 4 Block of Gold 4 Lantern 3 Loot Chest (Generic) 3 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 6 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
2885 Polished Blackstone Bricks 440 Blackstone 236 Basalt 77 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 7 Gilded Blackstone 2 Loot Chest (Generic) 2 Lantern 1 Blackstone Stairs 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
1281 Polished Blackstone Bricks 467 Blackstone 74 Basalt 10 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Gilded Blackstone 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
69 Polished Blackstone Bricks 53 Basalt 35 Blackstone 29 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Blackstone Slab 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Blackstone Wall 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
91 Polished Blackstone Bricks 43 Basalt 17 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Blackstone Slab 9 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Blackstone Wall 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
127 Polished Blackstone Bricks 59 Basalt 21 Blackstone 21 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 12 Blackstone Slab 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Soul Sand 1 Loot Chest (Hoglin Stable) 1 Gilded Blackstone 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
84 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 25 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Blackstone Slab 6 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Blackstone Wall 1 Lantern 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
69 Polished Blackstone Bricks 53 Basalt 35 Blackstone 28 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Blackstone Slab 4 Blackstone Wall 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
90 Polished Blackstone Bricks 43 Basalt 17 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Blackstone Slab 10 Blackstone 4 Blackstone Wall 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
126 Polished Blackstone Bricks 59 Basalt 22 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 21 Blackstone 12 Blackstone Slab 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Blackstone Wall 2 Soul Sand 1 Iron Chain 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
86 Polished Blackstone Bricks 32 Basalt 25 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Blackstone Slab 6 Blackstone 4 Blackstone Wall 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Lantern 1 Hoglin [ n 3 ]
180 Polished Blackstone Bricks 57 Basalt 31 Blackstone 18 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Magma Block 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
225 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 27 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 24 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 4 Magma Block 3 Polished Basalt 2 Iron Chain 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Lantern
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 25 Blackstone 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Iron Chain 1 Lantern
167 Polished Blackstone Bricks 65 Blackstone 39 Basalt 30 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Magma Block 2 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Lantern
129 Polished Blackstone Bricks 51 Blackstone 32 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Magma Block 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Lantern 1 Polished Basalt
185 Polished Blackstone Bricks 57 Basalt 28 Blackstone 21 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
227 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 28 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 25 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 2 Lantern 1 Blackstone Stairs
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 25 Blackstone 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 2 Lantern 1 Blackstone Stairs
170 Polished Blackstone Bricks 64 Blackstone 44 Basalt 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 2 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
130 Polished Blackstone Bricks 53 Blackstone 32 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 1 Polished Basalt
182 Polished Blackstone Bricks 57 Basalt 27 Blackstone 19 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Magma Block 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Lantern
217 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 28 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 26 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 9 Magma Block 3 Polished Basalt 2 Lantern 1 Blackstone Stairs
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 25 Blackstone 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 2 Lantern 2 Magma Block 1 Blackstone Stairs
170 Polished Blackstone Bricks 63 Blackstone 44 Basalt 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 2 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Iron Chain
127 Polished Blackstone Bricks 53 Blackstone 32 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Magma Block 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 1 Polished Basalt
185 Polished Blackstone Bricks 58 Basalt 28 Blackstone 21 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Glowstone 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
227 Polished Blackstone Bricks 50 Basalt 28 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 25 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 50 Basalt 25 Blackstone 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
170 Polished Blackstone Bricks 63 Blackstone 45 Basalt 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
131 Polished Blackstone Bricks 53 Blackstone 33 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Polished Basalt
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 57 Basalt 27 Blackstone 21 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 8 Magma Block 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Lantern
227 Polished Blackstone Bricks 47 Basalt 28 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 25 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 2 Lantern 2 Magma Block 1 Blackstone Stairs
184 Polished Blackstone Bricks 49 Basalt 25 Blackstone 12 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Polished Basalt 2 Magma Block 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Lantern
167 Polished Blackstone Bricks 55 Blackstone 44 Basalt 23 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Magma Block 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 2 Polished Basalt 1 Blackstone Stairs
129 Polished Blackstone Bricks 51 Blackstone 32 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Magma Block 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Lantern 1 Polished Basalt
4680 Blackstone 220 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 12 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 6 Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Gilded Blackstone 2 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
4924 Blackstone 173 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 26 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 12 Block of Gold 7 Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 5 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
5286 Blackstone 66 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 27 Blackstone Stairs 4 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 3 Gilded Blackstone 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
The housing unit consists of multiple ruined two-part ramparts arranged around a central courtyard with nether wart growing in the middle. Housing unit pieces are contained in the subfolder units .
72 Polished Blackstone Bricks 21 Blackstone 15 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 15 Soul Sand 9 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 7 Blackstone Slab 6 Nether Wart 2 Blackstone Wall 1 Loot Chest (Generic)
32 Polished Blackstone Bricks 23 Blackstone 11 Blackstone Slab 7 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 7 Soul Sand 4 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Nether Wart
71 Polished Blackstone Bricks 26 Blackstone 22 Soul Sand 8 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 5 Blackstone Slab 5 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 5 Nether Wart 1 Blackstone Wall 1 Loot Chest (Generic)
6 Blackstone
6 Blackstone
260 Polished Blackstone Bricks 81 Basalt 38 Blackstone 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
4441 Polished Blackstone Bricks 494 Blackstone 342 Basalt 114 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Loot Chest (Generic) 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
3022 Polished Blackstone Bricks 482 Blackstone 236 Basalt 79 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 6 Blackstone Stairs 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
1417 Polished Blackstone Bricks 531 Blackstone 74 Basalt 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
240 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 6 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
241 Polished Blackstone Bricks 30 Basalt 6 Blackstone 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
177 Polished Blackstone Bricks 29 Basalt 24 Blackstone 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
239 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 6 Blackstone 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
268 Polished Blackstone Bricks 34 Basalt 9 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Blackstone 4 Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Iron Chain 1 Lava 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
279 Polished Blackstone Bricks 27 Basalt 7 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Iron Chain 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Lantern 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
231 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 13 Blackstone 10 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
178 Polished Blackstone Bricks 29 Basalt 24 Blackstone 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Iron Chain 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
281 Polished Blackstone Bricks 8 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Lava
244 Polished Blackstone Bricks 18 Basalt 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Lantern 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
279 Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Basalt 5 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ] 1 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
176 Polished Blackstone Bricks 29 Basalt 23 Blackstone 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
170 Polished Blackstone Bricks 29 Basalt 23 Blackstone 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
79 Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Blackstone 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
69 Polished Blackstone Bricks 8 Blackstone 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
69 Polished Blackstone Bricks 20 Blackstone 2 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Lava
60 Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Blackstone 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Lava
290 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 12 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
241 Polished Blackstone Bricks 31 Basalt 6 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold [ n 4 ]
4806 Blackstone 158 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 12 Basalt 5 Block of Gold 1 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ]
4654 Blackstone 191 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Blackstone Stairs 12 Block of Gold 11 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 8 Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Loot Chest (Generic) 7 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
1 Polished Blackstone Bricks
The treasure room structure consists of a large rampart supported by buttresses, with a bridge going between it and the treasure room itself. The rampart contains several treasure chests and a handful of blocks of gold .
The treasure room consists of many bridges suspended above a lava floor. At the bottom of a treasure room, there is a magma cube monster spawner, and a center loot area consisting of blocks of gold , as well as 1 or 2 treasure chests. Additional chests generate in the bastion remnant, but they use the "generic" loot table instead of the "treasure" loot table. Treasure room pieces are contained in the subfolder treasure .
Ghasts may spawn in the treasure room if the room is in the correct biome, which can create a difficult experience for the player. Their group size depends on the biome and edition.
121 Polished Blackstone Bricks 19 Block of Gold 14 Blackstone 4 Blackstone Wall 1 Loot Chest (Treasure) 1 Piglin brute
118 Polished Blackstone Bricks 17 Blackstone 12 Block of Gold 2 Loot Chest (Treasure) 2 Piglin brute
134 Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Block of Gold 11 Blackstone 6 Blackstone Wall 1 Chest 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin brute
75 Polished Blackstone Bricks 13 Block of Gold 5 Blackstone 1 Loot Chest (Treasure) 1 Piglin brute
956 Lava 802 Polished Blackstone Bricks 129 Blackstone 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Iron Chain 1 Magma Cube Monster Spawner 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ] 1 Piglin brute
191 Polished Blackstone Bricks 20 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 19 Basalt 7 Blackstone 7 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
89 Polished Blackstone Bricks 60 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 43 Basalt 1 Lantern 1 Iron Chain 1 Polished Basalt
64 Polished Blackstone Bricks
60 Polished Blackstone Bricks
68 Polished Blackstone Bricks
86 Polished Blackstone Bricks 25 Basalt 21 Blackstone 2 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Blackstone Slab
74 Polished Blackstone Bricks 29 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 27 Basalt 5 Blackstone 2 Iron Chain 1 Lantern
67 Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Basalt 25 Blackstone 19 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks
74 Polished Blackstone Bricks 39 Basalt 14 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Blackstone 1 Polished Blackstone Stairs
292 Polished Blackstone Bricks 13 Blackstone 2 Block of Gold 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
355 Polished Blackstone Bricks 66 Blackstone 18 Basalt 13 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Fire 4 Netherrack 1 Blackstone Slab
124 Polished Blackstone Bricks 47 Blackstone 7 Basalt 1 Polished Blackstone Stairs
151 Polished Blackstone Bricks 42 Blackstone 11 Basalt 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Blackstone Slab
20 Polished Blackstone Bricks 18 Blackstone 9 Basalt
20 Polished Blackstone Bricks 8 Blackstone 7 Basalt
37 Blackstone 31 Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Lava
46 Polished Blackstone Bricks 42 Basalt 3 Blackstone
92 Polished Blackstone Bricks 27 Blackstone
7 Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Blackstone
19 Polished Blackstone Bricks 12 Basalt
11 Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Blackstone
34 Polished Blackstone Bricks 23 Basalt
2571 Blackstone 109 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Magma Block 12 Basalt 24 Lava Source 2 Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Chiseled Polished Blackstone
7250 Polished Blackstone Bricks 357 Lava (Source) 55 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 13 Chiseled Polished Blackstone
7250 Polished Blackstone Bricks 357 Lava (Source) 55 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 13 Chiseled Polished Blackstone
3088 Polished Blackstone Bricks 86 Basalt 42 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 41 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 29 Blackstone 6 Lantern 2 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Block of Gold 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ] 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin brute
2941 Polished Blackstone Bricks 103 Basalt 47 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 26 Blackstone 15 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 5 Lantern 2 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Block of Gold 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ] 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
1187 Polished Blackstone Bricks 39 Blackstone 38 Basalt 25 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 6 Block of Gold [ n 5 ] 2 Lantern
1152 Polished Blackstone Bricks
50 Polished Blackstone Bricks
240 Polished Blackstone Bricks
13 Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 7 Blackstone
1043 Polished Blackstone Bricks 83 Blackstone 45 Basalt 37 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Iron Chain 6 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 4 Lantern 1 Chest (Generic) 1 Lava 1 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin brute
983 Polished Blackstone Bricks 108 Basalt 40 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 30 Blackstone 21 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
1075 Polished Blackstone Bricks 111 Basalt 54 Blackstone 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 10 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 4 Lantern 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
952 Polished Blackstone Bricks 130 Basalt 51 Blackstone 26 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 9 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lantern 1 Lava 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
434 Polished Blackstone Bricks 123 Basalt 27 Blackstone 25 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 20 Polished Basalt 13 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Lava 1 Blackstone Stairs 1 Loot Chest (Generic) 1 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ] 1 Piglin brute
412 Polished Blackstone Bricks 198 Basalt 77 Blackstone 40 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 2 Iron Chain 2 Lantern 2 Lava 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Polished Basalt 3 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
575 Polished Blackstone Bricks 130 Basalt 33 Blackstone 21 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Iron Chain 3 Lava (Source) 2 Blackstone Stairs 2 Lantern 1 Polished Basalt 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
160 Polished Blackstone Bricks
768 Polished Blackstone Bricks
150 Polished Blackstone Bricks
720 Polished Blackstone Bricks
816 Polished Blackstone Bricks
170 Polished Blackstone Bricks
593 Polished Blackstone Bricks 105 Basalt 79 Blackstone 72 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 11 Polished Basalt 8 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 6 Lantern 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 2 ] 1 Piglin brute
502 Polished Blackstone Bricks 102 Blackstone 55 Basalt 53 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 10 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 7 Lantern 6 Blackstone Stairs 2 Blackstone Slab 2 Iron Chain 2 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Lava
602 Polished Blackstone Bricks 134 Basalt 116 Blackstone 52 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 8 Blackstone Wall 5 Iron Chain 3 Blackstone Slab 3 Lantern 1 Lava (Source) 2 Piglin or Piglin brute [ n 1 ]
763 Polished Blackstone Bricks 12 Basalt
840 Polished Blackstone Bricks
This loot appears in some structures in bridge bastion remnants.
In Java Edition , each bastion bridge chest contains items drawn from 5 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each bastion bridge chest contains items drawn from 5 pools, with the following distribution:
This loot appears in chests throughout all types of bastion remnants.
In Java Edition , each bastion generic chest contains items drawn from 5 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each bastion generic chest contains items drawn from 5 pools, with the following distribution:
This loot appears in some structures in hoglin stable bastion remnants.
In Java Edition , each bastion hoglin stable chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each bastion hoglin stable chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
This loot appears in the chests generated within the treasure stash at the very bottom of Treasure bastion remnants.
In Java Edition , each bastion treasure chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each bastion treasure chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Bastion Remnant" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Trial chambers [ note 1 ] are uncommon underground structures that serve as a mid-game combat challenge. [1] They consist mostly of copper blocks and tuff bricks , and are the only place where trial spawners and vaults naturally generate. Trial chambers are also the only place where breezes spawn, whose breeze rods can be used to craft wind charges . Various materials such as heavy cores and certain armor trims are obtained exclusively by unlocking vaults in trial chambers. As it is the only source of breeze rods and heavy cores, the structure is also the location where maces are obtained.
Trial chambers can also be used to obtain copper bulbs without entering the Nether or finding a nether fortress , and large quantities of copper blocks and its derivatives.
Ominous trials can also take place here through Bad Omen , where Trial Omen causes all trial spawners to become ominous , making them more difficult and providing greater rewards.
Trial chambers generate underground in the Overworld . The starting room generates at an altitude of between Y=-40 and -20, but the structure is not restricted to those Y levels; the majority of the structure's rooms tend to generate between Y=-20 and 0. [verify]
Trial chambers can only generate in new chunks, specifically ones that did not exist prior to Java Edition 1.21 and Bedrock Edition 1.21.0 .
The generation of trial chambers follows a grid of 34×34 chunk regions centered on the world origin (X=0, Z=0). There is always one trial chambers structure generated in each region at a random location, unless a deep dark biome cancels the generation of the trial chambers.
While the origin point of the structure ( corridor_end ) cannot generate within a deep dark biome, other parts of it can intersect a deep dark biome.
Trial chambers can be located using trial explorer maps , which are sold by journeyman-level cartographer villagers for 12 emeralds and a compass . The maps always point to the nearest trial chamber relative to the cartographer that does not already have a trial explorer map that points to it. All maps bought from the same cartographer always point to the same structure.
Trial chambers are buried underground, so exposed caves will usually have weird shapes that will determine the location of a trial chamber.
In Java Edition , a given villager always trades the same map, which is determined upon the trade unlocking.
An online seed map such as mcseedmap.net or chunkbase.com may be used instead.
The starting room of the structure is corridor/end . This room connects to a chamber and a section of a corridor. At the end of the section of a corridor, an intersection links to another chamber and another section of a corridor is generated, but this time it ends on the atrium, which then leads to the entrance room.
The structure then branches out from some corridor/straight pieces.
All trial chambers structures found below are located in the folder client.jar /data/minecraft/structure/trial_chambers ‌ [ JE only ] or data/behavior_packs/vanilla/structures/trial_chambers ‌ [ BE only ] .
Trial chambers feature two corridors:
The intersection connects both corridors, forming an L-shape. The intersection and the end room always lead to a chamber, while slices have a probability to lead to a hallway (see § Hallways ).
The entrance generates at the end of one of the two corridors, passing through the atrium.
entrance_1 and entrance_2 include a vault , two entrance chests, and a platform containing either an oak , a mangrove , or a cactus ; additionally, entrance_1 has a secret room containing a bed and a chest.
entrance_3 includes two vaults and three entrance chests.
The first floor features a walkway, above which is a copper grate that leading to a hidden room containing a bed and a chest. A staircase leads to the second floor.
The second floor contains a platform with a tree (either an oak, a mangrove or cactus) and two chests. Between the two chests, right next to the vegetation platform, is a trapdoor leading into a ventilation-shaft-like tunnel. This tunnel connects both floors. The second floor also features an upper ledge with a vault.
The first floor is empty. A staircase leads to the second floor.
The second floor contains a platform with a tree (either an oak, a mangrove or cactus) and two chests. It also features an upper ledge with a vault.
The first spiral staircase goes from the first floor to the last floor. The first floor features two chests and the third floor a third chest, while other sections of floors connected by the first spiral staircase are empty.
The second spiral staircase goes from the second floor to the last floor. The fourth and fifth floor both feature a vault.
The atrium generates between the entrance and one of the corridor's slices. It always contains an ominous vault above the doorway leading to the entrance and a fountain.
Murals are generated on both sides; they can depict either a bogged , a breeze , a spider , or a spiral shape. The grand staircase is also chosen randomly.
The grand staircase design and the murals are chosen randomly.
Corridor slices, or straight pieces, [ note 7 ] are sub-structures that make up the corridors; they are generated on top of a tuff brick plate. Each of the two corridors has four slices.
Except for straight_1 and straight_8 , all slices have a copper door:
On average, each trial chamber has 6.29 ( 44 ⁄ 7 ) doors. These copper doors can either lead directly to a chamber, a hallway or nothing. [2] Provided the latter case doesn't happen:
Both straight_6 and straight_8 generate with a trial spawner that can either spawn a melee, small melee or ranged mob (see § Mobs ), but never breezes . straight_7 generates with a hidden vault .
In addition to their addons, slices can generate with various decorations such as flower pots , decorated pots , candles and corridor barrels (see § Decor ). Some addons can generate with a trial spawner (that can either spawn a melee, small melee or ranged mob) and a vault.
Additionally, one of its upper level sides is blocked by a wall.
Additionally, one of its upper level sides is blocked by a wall in which a vault is hidden.
The end room generates at the end of one of the two corridors. It always leads to one of these chambers with equal probability:
End rooms cannot lead to any other chamber, i.e. it excludes:
End rooms always include an ominous vault . In addition to its ominous vault, end_2 also features a regular vault and an chest with intersection loot.
A shallow water pool generates on the lower level. It contains a chest and an ominous vault in a room sealed by copper grates bellow the bridge leading up to the chamber.
The intersection is the room that connects both corridors. It always features a safer zone equipped with beds as well as an entrance to a chamber. In addition to that:
The bedroom is located in the middle of the water pool, underneath the platform where the bridges are linked to. An ominous vault is sealed by a wall next to the bedroom.
The bedroom is located on a mezzanine and contains a barrel. An ominous vault is placed near the staircase leading to the bedroom.
A secret chamber is hidden behind the wall at the back of the 2 beds on the left. The secret chamber contains a purple bed, a decorated pot containing 3 strings, a table, a crafting table , and a potted dead bush .
The center is filled up by a tall tower with three levels: the upper level connects to the second corridor, the middle level contains 3 beds and a barrel, and the lower level is a copper grate walkway leading to nothing.
Unlike the other two intersections, this intersection doesn't contain an ominous vault.
Hallways are segments that connect corridors to chambers. When a copper door generates in a corridor, it (or, in the case of an upper or lower door, the spiral staircase that follows it; see § Slices ) may lead to one of the following pieces:
If the selected piece cannot be generated, the game attempts to generate a different piece. After a certain number of failed attempts, it defaults to generating a dead end.​ [ more information needed ] If the dead end itself cannot be generated, no piece is generated. [2]
This process is then repeated at the end of each hallway segment or encounter. Furthermore, hallways never branch, meaning that every copper door found in corridors eventually leads to a single chamber, a dead end, or nothing.
They also generate as fallback pieces: during the generation, after a certain number of failed attempts at generating other pieces, it defaults to generating a dead end. In that case, the weight is 1 ⁄ 4 (25%) for all four pieces.
Encounters are hallway pieces that consist in "short challenges leading to a larger chamber". [5] They feature a single trial spawner and a vault.
Chambers are large combat rooms that contain multiple trial spawners and vaults, as well as one ominous vault. Chambers can be accessed from hallways, intersections, end rooms, and corridor slices.
Each chamber design has several potential entrances, of which only one is connected to the rest of the structure. The remaining entrances are sealed with an entrance cap (see § Hallways ). Each potential entrance, including the sealed ones, generates a disposal consisting of a hopper placed above a barrel (see § Decor ), allowing players to manage their inventory before entering a chamber. [6]
It generates a breeze trial spawner as part of the column. Additionally, it can generate up to two ranged trial spawners as part of walkways.
It tries to generate an ominous vault embedded in a wall near the bottom of the column, [ note 11 ] and can generate up to two regular vaults as part of walkways.
In addition to its addons, dispensers may generate embedded in the walls.
It generates a ranged trial spawner as part of the column. Additionally, it and can generate up to two ranged trial spawners as part of walkways.
It generates an ominous vault as part of the column, on its lower level, and can generate up to two regular vaults as part of walkways.
In addition to its addons, dispensers may generate embedded in the walls.
It generated in the middle of the chamber, always features a breeze trial chamber on its middle level. It generated with a staircase connecting the lower level of the room to the middle level of the column.
On the upper level, the columns attempts to generate hanging platforms on all four sides. However, a hanging platform may fail to generate if the space is already occupied by an entrance piece.
It acts as a walkway that features a ranged trial spawner.
It acts as a walkway that features a ranged trial spawner and a vault.
It generates hanging platforms directly in front of the entrance and to the left when entering the chamber.
It includes a structure block in save mode.
It generates with 8 slices, including an ominous one, and 4 quadrants.
One of these trial spawners is a breeze trial spawner, and the two other can generate either melee, small melee or ranged mobs.
This slice always generate as part of one slice when Pedestal tries to generate.‌ [ Java Edition only ]
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It contains a vault on its lower floor.
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It contains a vault on its lower floor.
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It generates two small melee trial spawners, both on the upper level, and a vault on each level. An ominous vault is located between the two upper level potential entrances. Chamber 4 also generates copper grate walls near the lower entrance. with a 1-block layer gap
Chamber 4 does not come with addons nor generate dispensers in the walls. However, it may generate various decor (see § Decor ).
It generates a breeze trial spawner and a vault on the side where it does not have a potential entrance. The three other sides are filled with random slices, and the corners are filled with random quadrants.
It theoretically contains a hidden vault inside; however, due to limited space, the vault never generates.
It contains a breeze trial spawner and an ominous vault.
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It contains a melee trial spawner on its lower floor.
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It contains a vault on its upper floor.
It contains a ranged trial spawner on its upper floor.
It contains a ranged trial spawner on its upper floor.
The main floor contains a vault, a breeze trial spawner, an ominous vault embedded in a wall, and may have dispensers embedded in the walls. The platform contains two vaults and a ranged trial spawner. The underground passageway, located below the main floor, contains a single vault.
On the main floor, 11 random upper addons, such as hanging platforms, generate attached to the ceiling, while 11 random lower addons generate attached to the floor. In addition to these addons, dispensers may generate embedded in the walls.
The two staircases leading to the balcony are randomly selected.
It contains a trial spawner that can generate either melee, small melee or ranged mobs on the upper floor.
The first floor contains two vaults. The second and third floors both contain a slow ranged trial spawner. The fourth floor contains two slow ranged trial spawners, a vault, and an ominous vault.
Dispensers can generate in the walls.
It has a breeze trial spawner in its center around which are 4 slices, including an ominous one, and 4 quadrants. Unlike other chambers that generate with full slices, Slanted's slice are split into two parts: hallways (on the lower level) and ramps (on the upper level).
hallway_2 contains a vault.
ramp_1 and ramp_2 contain a melee trial spawner.
ramp_3 contains a ranged trial spawner.
Decor includes decorated pots, flower pots, candles, and barrels. It can generate in slices, some encounters, and some chambers.
Disposals and beds are also classified as decor but are not part of the decor pool: they only generate near chamber entrances and at intersections respectively.
The bed that generate in the secret room of entrance_1 is not generated via this substructure and therefore is always purple.
Unlike the regular spawner: 4 mobs are allowed to exist simultaneously instead of 3, an additional player adds 2 mobs instead of 0.5, and the spawner waits 160 game ticks (8 seconds) ticks between spawn attempts instead of 20 game ticks (1 second).
Unlike the regular spawner: 4 mobs are allowed to exist simultaneously instead of 3, an additional player adds 2 mobs instead of 0.5, and the spawner waits 160 game ticks (8 seconds) ticks between spawn attempts instead of 20 game ticks (1 second).
Unlike the regular spawner: 4 mobs are allowed to exist simultaneously instead of 3, an additional player adds 2 mobs instead of 0.5, and the spawner waits 160 game ticks (8 seconds) ticks between spawn attempts instead of 20 game ticks (1 second).
Natural hostile mob spawning is disabled within a trial chamber. Mobs spawn only from the trial spawners . The number of mobs spawned scales with the number of players in range of each spawner, and breezes are spawned less per spawner and per player than other mobs.
When a trial chamber structure generates, one mob from each of the following categories is randomly selected for the trial spawners in that structure. Every mob within the same category has an equal chance to be selected. The breeze is in its own category and is thus guaranteed to be found in certain chambers.
Additionally, chickens can also appear in trial chambers in two different ways.
Loot is available from vaults , chests , barrels , dispensers , and decorated pots from within the chambers. Players who defeat a trial spawner each receive rewards; this loot scales depending on the number of players who defeat the trial spawner.
Vaults and chests (known as reward chests in game) in entrance_1 's secret room and the hallway dead end rubble share the same loot table.
In Java Edition , each trial chambers vault and reward chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers vault and reward chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers ominous vault contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers entrance chest contains 2–3 item stacks, with the following distribution:
The room where the loot is stored is actually inside in the room end_2 , not an intersection. In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers intersection chest contains 1–3 item stacks, with the following distribution:
Supply loot only occurs in chests within cache_1 . In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers supply chest contains 3–5 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition , each trial chambers intersection barrel contains 1–3 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers intersection barrel contains 1–3 item stacks, with the following distribution:
Corridor barrels are named as "corridor chests" in the game files, but the loot is stored inside barrels. In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers corridor chest contains 1–3 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In addition to the below, decorated pots may have flow, guster, or scrape designs, which yield their respective pottery sherds when broken, along with bricks for any blank sides. There is a 10 ⁄ 13 chance that the pot is composed entirely out of bricks, and 1 ⁄ 13 chance for each of the variants with a single sherd.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers corridor pot contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers chamber dispenser contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers corridor dispenser contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers water dispenser contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
When all mobs have been killed, the trial spawner has a 50% chance of picking the trial key , in which case it drops for all players. The other 50% of the time it drops one of the other items for each player.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers trial spawner contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
When all mobs have been killed, the ominous trial spawner has a 30% chance of picking the ominous trial key , in which case it drops for all players. The other 70% of the time it drops one of the other items for each player.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chamber ominous trial spawner contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Trial Chambers" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A desert pyramid , commonly referred to as a desert temple , is an uncommon above ground structure found in desert biomes built mostly of sandstone and terracotta . The desert pyramid contains four loot chests hidden under the floor in the center, which are protected by a TNT trap, and a secret buried room to the side where archaeology can be performed by brushing the generated suspicious sand .
Desert pyramids generate in desert biomes. Desert pyramids have a lower generation frequency in Java Edition than in Bedrock Edition .
Desert pyramids are intended to represent an excavation site. The structure is constructed with normal, smooth, chiseled, and cut sandstone, as well as orange and blue terracotta , sandstone slabs , and sandstone stairs .
The pattern of orange terracotta on the towers of desert pyramids resembles an Ankh , the ancient Egyptian symbol for life and the Nile key. There is one main entrance in the front, two more entrances in the back on both the left and right sides near the top of the pyramid, and a one-block wide window at the top. Even if the rest of the pyramid generates mostly buried by sand, the top of the pyramid is almost always above ground. A mostly buried pyramid can still be accessed by the window in the top if necessary, though fall damage is likely. In the center of the pyramid's 21×21 ground floor is a checkerboard pattern of terracotta and sandstone in a wind rose symbol, with a block of blue terracotta in the center.
Underneath this terracotta is a secret fosse containing four chests, which are rigged by a stone pressure plate directly under the blue terracotta block. The pressure plate is connected to a 3×3 grid of TNT , which means that if a player or mob unintentionally steps on the plate, it sets off the nine TNT blocks, which destroy the chests and their loot and can kill the player. As there is no light in the chest room, mobs sometimes spawn inside it and trigger the TNT trap, destroying the chests and loot before any player can reach it.
Desert pyramids also generate with a lower room situated in the back (either on the left or right), and buried in sand. Six to eight of these sand blocks generate as suspicious sand . This room is 5×5 blocks, has another instance of the sandstone wind rose pattern on the ground, and is connected to the main floor with collapsed stairs.
When a desert pyramid generates above a ravine , the foundation extends downward until it reaches the bottom.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each desert pyramid chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
The loot chances above are per chest . As each chest has a 2.6% chance to contain an enchanted golden apple for example, with four chests, each pyramid has about a 10% chance overall of having at least one.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each desert temple's suspicious sand contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Desert pyramid" or "Desert temple" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A jungle pyramid [a] , also known as a jungle temple , is an above ground structure found in jungle biomes built mostly of cobblestone and mossy cobblestone . The jungle pyramid contains two loot chests , one at the end of a hallway of arrow booby traps, and one hidden behind a lever puzzle.
Jungle pyramids can generate in jungles , but not sparse jungles . [1] In Java Edition , they can also generate in bamboo jungles .
Jungle pyramids can be located with jungle explorer maps , which are sold by desert , savanna and swamp cartographers .
Jungle pyramids consist of cobblestone , mossy cobblestone , and vines . There are 3 floors.
It is possible to find blocks that normally generate outside the pyramid (like leaves ) appearing inside, possibly blocking the chests or dispensers , or interrupting the redstone .
On the bottom floor, there is a puzzle consisting of 3 levers on 3 chiseled stone bricks connected to a hidden piston mechanism. If the combination is entered correctly, a block on the main floor is pulled away, revealing a chest.
Down the hall from the puzzle, there is another chest. There are two tripwire lines connected to dispensers with 2–14 arrows , hidden behind vines. The first tripwire is in the middle of the hallway and the second tripwire is around the corner in front of the chest. Walking over the tripwire triggers the dispenser attached to it. Breaking the tripwire with anything other than shears also triggers it.
In Java Edition , each jungle pyramid chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each jungle pyramid chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition , each jungle temple dispenser contains 1–2 item stacks, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each jungle temple dispenser contains 2 item stacks, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Jungle pyramid" or "Jungle temple" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A shipwreck is a common structure found in oceanic biomes and rarely on beaches that resembles a sunken sailing ship. It contains up to three chests each with a different loot table, which can contain suspicious stew , fishing rods and buried treasure maps , which lead to a buried treasure .
Shipwrecks generate in all oceans commonly. On rarer occasions, they generate above sea level nearby the water, in beaches , snowy beaches , or inside an iceberg , [1] ocean ruins , ocean monument , or canyon .
Shipwrecks generate in one of three ways: upright, keeled sideways, or upside-down. In many cases, they are missing their bow (front) or stern (rear), mast or multiple other blocks, giving them a damaged appearance; however, it is also possible, but rare, to find them completely intact. They consist solely of wooden materials, including logs ‌ [ JE only ] / stripped logs ‌ [ BE only ] , planks , fences , slabs , stairs , trapdoors , a door (if the ship is upright), and up to 3 chests , depending on rotation and intact sections of the ship. The bow is supposed to generate one chest (unless upside-down) while the stern should generate 2, and the whole ship generates a maximum of 3 chests, regardless of the ship's rotation or condition. However, there are some instances in which chests that usually generate in a shipwreck section are missing. Only two wood types are used per ship (one is the primary type, which is used by the logs and exterior, and the other the secondary type), but only 8‌ [ JE only ] combinations are possible: Primary dark oak with secondary jungle and spruce , primary jungle with secondary spruce, primary oak with secondary birch and spruce, primary spruce with secondary dark oak, jungle, and oak. Acacia is also another possible secondary type‌ [ Bedrock Edition only ] .
166 Oak Planks 112 Oak Stairs 67 Spruce Planks 20 Spruce Slab 15 Spruce Fence 13 Spruce Stairs 6 Oak Fence 4 Oak Log 3 Oak Trapdoor 2 Oak Slab 2 Chest 1 Oak Door
153 Oak Planks 109 Oak Stairs 59 Spruce Planks 20 Spruce Slab 14 Spruce Fence 10 Spruce Stairs 6 Oak Fence 4 Oak Log 4 Oak Slab 2 Oak Trapdoor 2 Chest 1 Oak Door
128 Oak Planks 108 Oak Stairs 58 Spruce Planks 20 Spruce Stairs 18 Spruce Fence 11 Oak Trapdoor 8 Oak Log 1 Chest 1 Oak Door
111 Oak Planks 100 Oak Stairs 44 Spruce Planks 12 Spruce Stairs 10 Spruce Fence 11 Oak Trapdoor 7 Oak Log 1 Chest 1 Oak Door
252 Oak Planks 178 Oak Stairs 104 Spruce Planks 31 Spruce Fence 31 Spruce Slab 26 Spruce Stairs 14 Oak Trapdoor 10 Oak Log 6 Oak Fence 3 Chest 2 Oak Slab 1 Oak Door
243 Oak Planks 171 Oak Stairs 89 Spruce Planks 31 Spruce Slab 27 Spruce Fence 23 Spruce Stairs 10 Oak Log 9 Oak Trapdoor 6 Oak Fence 3 Chest 2 Oak Slab 1 Oak Door
143 Oak Planks 105 Oak Stairs 101 Spruce Planks 10 Spruce Fence 6 Oak Fence 5 Spruce Stairs 4 Oak Log 3 Oak Trapdoor 2 Chest
123 Oak Planks 99 Oak Stairs 88 Spruce Planks 10 Spruce Fence 6 Oak Fence 4 Oak Log 3 Oak Trapdoor 3 Spruce Stairs 2 Chest
117 Oak Planks 104 Oak Stairs 60 Spruce Planks 13 Spruce Stairs 11 Spruce Fence 7 Oak Log 7 Oak Trapdoor 1 Chest
83 Oak Planks 81 Oak Stairs 46 Spruce Planks 13 Spruce Stairs 8 Spruce Fence 7 Oak Trapdoor 6 Oak Log 1 Chest
223 Oak Planks 171 Oak Stairs 159 Spruce Planks 30 Spruce Fence 22 Spruce Stairs 14 Oak Trapdoor 10 Oak Log 6 Oak Fence 3 Chest
206 Oak Planks 150 Spruce Planks 149 Oak Stairs 24 Spruce Fence 21 Spruce Stairs 11 Oak Trapdoor 10 Oak Log 6 Oak Fence 3 Chest
176 Oak Planks 107 Oak Stairs 60 Spruce Planks 10 Spruce Fence 10 Spruce Stairs 7 Spruce Slab 4 Oak Trapdoor 4 Oak Log 3 Oak Slab 2 Oak Fence 2 Chest
167 Oak Planks 98 Oak Stairs 55 Spruce Planks 10 Spruce Fence 8 Spruce Stairs 7 Spruce Slab 4 Oak Trapdoor 4 Oak Log 3 Oak Slab 2 Oak Fence 2 Chest
123 Oak Planks 93 Oak Stairs 60 Spruce Planks 21 Spruce Stairs 14 Oak Trapdoor 9 Oak Log 8 Spruce Fence 2 Chest
112 Oak Planks 82 Oak Stairs 54 Spruce Planks 20 Spruce Stairs 11 Oak Trapdoor 9 Oak Log 8 Spruce Fence 2 Chest
219 Oak Planks 153 Oak Stairs 116 Spruce Planks 30 Spruce Fence 28 Spruce Stairs 19 Spruce Slab 14 Oak Trapdoor 10 Oak Log 4 Oak Fence 3 Chest 2 Oak Slab
194 Oak Planks 133 Oak Stairs 109 Spruce Planks 28 Spruce Stairs 27 Spruce Fence 19 Spruce Slab 14 Oak Trapdoor 10 Oak Log 4 Oak Fence 3 Chest 2 Oak Slab
209 Oak Planks 182 Oak Stairs 108 Spruce Planks 70 Spruce Slab 67 Oak Log 35 Spruce Fence 24 Spruce Stairs 16 Oak Trapdoor 6 Oak Fence 4 Oak Slab 3 Chest 1 Oak Door
201 Oak Planks 172 Oak Stairs 107 Spruce Planks 63 Spruce Slab 28 Spruce Fence 24 Oak Log 23 Spruce Stairs 16 Oak Trapdoor 6 Oak Fence 4 Oak Slab 3 Chest 1 Oak Door
Shipwrecks contain up to 3 loot chests , depending on the sections still intact. Supply chests generate in the bow of the ships, treasure chests generate in the upper section of the stern, and map chests in the lower section. In the case of certain shipwrecks, especially those that intersect other structures, the chests that would normally be present in the corresponding section may be absent, resulting in some shipwrecks holding no chests at all. Although chests don't usually generate for missing sections, map chests from shipwreck sterns may generate in upside-down bows even if the stern is missing. Furthermore, each shipwreck with at least 2 chests always contains its map chest.
In Java Edition , each shipwreck supply chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each shipwreck supply chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition , each shipwreck treasure chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each shipwreck treasure chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition , each shipwreck map chest contains items drawn from 4 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each shipwreck map chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Shipwreck" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Ocean Ruins may refer to:
A pillager outpost is an assortment of generated structures inhabited by pillagers . Pillager outposts are one of the most reliable ways to find raid captains, who can be killed to obtain ominous bottles, which can then be used to start raids and increase the difficulty of trial chambers .
Pillager outposts are semi-rare structures, generating every several hundred to couple thousand blocks. [1] This makes them rarer than villages [2] but less rare than woodland mansions .
Pillager outposts can generate naturally in any village-generating biome, including:
Pillager outposts also generate in the following biomes, where villages do not spawn:
In Java Edition , pillager outposts never generate too close to, or within, villages. They can do so in Bedrock Edition as well as generate far away from villages.
In Java Edition , if an outpost spawns in the water or in the air (e.g., spawning near a savanna plateau ), then a platform of grass (or sand ), dirt , and stone spawns underneath it in a circular shape. This also applies to the smaller structures such as tents, targets, log piles, and cages. On occasion, the smaller structures still spawn in the air despite having a platform below them, depending on how high up they are.
In Bedrock Edition , pillager outposts generate with foundations similar to that of a woodland mansion: watchtowers use cobblestone , birch planks , and dark oak logs as their foundation; tents and cages generate dark oak planks as their foundation; log piles use horizontal dark oak logs as their foundation; and targets generate cobblestone as a foundation.
The outpost tower generates each time. Up to 4 other smaller structures may spawn around the periphery of the main outpost structure.
Eight extra air blocks also generate around the outpost, inside of the ground, creating small trenches. [3]
Iron golems and allays spawn only during the generation of the outpost structures. An iron golem has a 85% chance of spawning. Meanwhile, the allay has a 50% chance of spawning. These mobs spawn in cages. The iron golem can punch pillagers who are one block away from the fences of the cage.
Both regular pillagers and pillager captains can continuously spawn around the structure. Pillagers can still spawn if a player is inside the tower. In Java Edition , they spawn in a 72×58×72 area centered on the top level of the watchtower, the same level as the chest. Along the Y-axis, this area extends 28 blocks upward and 30 blocks downward from the center of the platform.
In Bedrock Edition , pillagers spawn at the highest available position in up to 4 columns depending on which direction the structure generates. The number of spawning locations vary based on the orientation of the structure: 2 spots when the door is facing east/west (50%), 4 for north (25%), and 1 for south (25%). The first spawning column is one block diagonally toward the chest at the top from the center of the structure; the other possible 3 are 8 blocks east, south, and southeast of the first. Pillagers can spawn in these columns, beginning from the bottom floor and extending vertically up to 18 blocks. Pillagers spawn on the northwest corner of a block and require a clear 2×2×2 area for spawning. Any solid block in this region inhibits spawning, while transparent blocks like leaves or glass don't impede spawning if they aren't positioned on the actual spawning spot.
Additionally, pillagers can also spawn on spots in the outbuildings of the outpost. The spawning spots are either level with, or one block above the generated floor of the outbuilding. Extending the floor of an outbuilding outside the originally generated boundary of the floor can sometimes reveal additional spawning spots.
In Java Edition , only pillagers may spawn within a pillager outpost spawn area. Pillagers may naturally spawn on any valid opaque block (except leaves) as long as the block light level is 8 or less. There is a 6% chance for a pillager to spawn as a patrol leader.
In Java Edition , there are 15 jigsaw blocks that can generate the structures around the tower. Each structure has a 1 in 13 chance of being generated, including allay and iron golem cages. When generated, iron golem cages spawn one golem, and allay cages spawn two allays.
A total of eight pillagers, including the pillager captain, spawns in a pillager outpost.
Upon killing an outpost captain, it drops an Ominous Bottle of a random level between 1 and 5. Drinking it causes the player to receive the corresponding level of the Bad Omen effect, active for 100 minutes (5 in-game days).
A pillager outpost consists of a 4-story watchtower with other smaller structures around it.
Structure blocks can be used to manually load pieces of the pillager outpost from the /data/minecraft/structures/pillager_outpost folder in minecraft.jar . To do so, set a structure block to Load mode, enter pillager_outpost/ <structure_name> , and press LOAD.
347 Dark Oak Planks 290 Birch Planks 207 Cobblestone 144 Dark Oak Log 48 Dark Oak Fence 45 Dark Oak Slab 33 Cobblestone Stairs 16 Dark Oak Stairs 8 Cobblestone Wall 4 Cobblestone Slab 4 Torch 1 Chest (random loot) 8 Ominous Banner
24 Dark Oak Fence 12 Dark Oak Log 8 Dark Oak Stairs 4 Dark Oak Slab 0~1 Iron Golem
28 Dark Oak Fence 12 Dark Oak Log 8 Dark Oak Stairs 4 Dark Oak Slab 0~3 Allay
21 Dark Oak Log
6 Dark Oak Fence 2 Carved Pumpkin 2 Hay Bale
20 White Wool 10 Dark Oak Fence 1 Crafting Table
20 White Wool 10 Dark Oak Fence 4 Pumpkin 1 Crafting Table
347 Dark Oak Planks 290 Birch Planks 207 Mossy Cobblestone 144 Dark Oak Log 113 Vines 48 Dark Oak Fence 45 Dark Oak Slab 33 Mossy Cobblestone Stairs 16 Dark Oak Stairs 8 Mossy Cobblestone Wall 4 Mossy Cobblestone Slab 4 Torch 1 Chest (random loot) 8 Ominous Banner
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each pillager outpost chest contains items drawn from 6 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Pillager Outpost" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A ruined portal is a structure resembling a damaged Nether portal , which generates commonly in both the Nether and the Overworld . It contains some decoration and a loot chest around it.
Ruined portals are the only structures that generate in more than one dimension; they generate in all biomes in both the Nether and the Overworld, except the deep dark . They can spawn underground, underwater, or exposed to the air. If they generate underground, they have air pockets around them. Natural terrain around ruined portals generates as netherrack . They also generate a mass of netherrack underneath them (including "stalactite"-like shapes, and this may contain blackstone deposits in the Nether). Giant ruined portals have 3 distinct designs, and normal ruined portals have 10 designs. When a ruined portal generates, it has a 5% chance to be a giant ruined portal, for about a 1.67% chance per giant portal design. This gives normal ruined portals a 95% chance, for a 9.5% chance per normal ruined portal design.
Ruined portals generate in a grid of squares 25 chunks (400 blocks) wide with 15 chunks (240 blocks) of buffer space between the squares. In other words, a ruined portal can generate at X and Z coordinates between 0 and 399 mod 640. One ruined portal generates per square.
Ruined portals that generate underground do so at Y-level from 15 to n−n 2 , where n is the highest block at the point of generation and n 2 is the height of the ruined portal structure. This means the terrain is always higher than or level with the top of the structure. Some ruined portal variants are short enough to generate completely on the surface.
Ruined portals that generate in windswept hills generate at y-level from 70 to n−n 2 .
Ruined portals that generate partially buried do so at y-level n−n 2 , plus a random integer from 2 to 8. This means that the structure has 2 to 8 layers raised above the surface.
In the Nether, ruined portals with air pockets generate from Y-level 32 to 100. Ruined portals without air pockets have a 50% chance to spawn from Y-level 27 to 29, and a 50% chance to spawn from Y-level 29 to 100.
Many blocks in ruined portals are replaced upon generation. A ruined portal is in a cold biome if the temperature is less than 0.15.
Stone Stone Bricks Chiseled Stone Bricks
Cracked Stone Bricks Stone Brick Stairs
Mossy Stone Bricks Mossy Stone Brick Stairs
Stone Slab Stone Brick Slab
Mossy Stone Brick Stairs Mossy Stone Brick Slab
Ruined portals generate damaged portal frames composed of obsidian , sometimes along with crying obsidian , although Nether portals cannot be activated with crying obsidian in the frame. [1] Some frames generate flat on the ground, as if they toppled over. Others are free-standing separately, as if still being assembled/attached.
All ruined portals generate with a chest in Bedrock Edition , but in Java Edition , the chest may be replaced if terrain overrides it (often lava). Each chest contains various gold items and items used to build portals, such as obsidian and flint and steel .
Any ruined portal generated in the Overworld is surrounded with structures made of stone , stone bricks , and iron bars ; in the Nether, it is surrounded by blackstone variants and chains . However, both the jungle and swamp variants of ruined_portal/portal_6 may spawn without their stone brick slab foundations.
There are 13 variants: 10 normal size portals and 3 giant portals in varying states of decay.
In Java Edition , ruined portals can be generated by the player by loading ruined_portal/portal_<1 to 10> or ruined_portal/giant_portal_<1 to 3> with a structure block . These ruined portals generate as they are stored, meaning they are not modified as detailed in the Generation section above. All portals generated this way create air pockets if generated in other blocks.
Note that some blocks can be replaced with others (such as crying obsidian ) upon generation. A full list can be seen below.
263 Netherrack 63 Stone Bricks 38 Stone Brick Slab 31 Obsidian 20 Stone Brick Stairs 18 Iron Bars 11 Lava 4 Chiseled Stone Bricks 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
237 Netherrack 55 Stone Bricks 30 Stone Brick Slab 29 Obsidian 22 Iron Bars 19 Lava 18 Stone Brick Stairs 6 Chiseled Stone Bricks 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
324 Netherrack 51 Stone Bricks 40 Stone Brick Slab 33 Lava 25 Obsidian 22 Iron Bars 6 Block of Gold 6 Chiseled Stone Bricks 6 Stone Brick Stairs 1 Chest
55 Netherrack 11 Obsidian 10 Stone Slab 9 Stone Bricks 7 Stone 6 Stone Brick Stairs 3 Chiseled Stone Bricks 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Cracked Stone Bricks 1 Stone Brick Slab
115 Netherrack 26 Lava 19 Stone Bricks 14 Stone Brick Slab 11 Obsidian 10 Smooth Stone Slab 4 Stone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 2 Iron Bars 1 Chest 1 Chiseled Stone Bricks 1 Mossy Stone Bricks
132 Netherrack 36 Stone Bricks 16 Stone Brick Slab 11 Obsidian 2 Lava 1 Chest
130 Netherrack 36 Stone Bricks 16 Stone Brick Slab 11 Obsidian 3 Lava 1 Block of Gold 1 Chest
145 Netherrack 22 Stone Bricks 15 Obsidian 12 Stone Brick Slab 6 Stone 5 Stone Slab 3 Block of Gold 2 Mossy Stone Bricks 1 Chest 1 Cracked Stone Bricks 1 Lava 1 Stone Brick Stairs
41 Netherrack 16 Obsidian 4 Stone Brick Slab 2 Stone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold 1 Chest
92 Netherrack 21 Lava 12 Obsidian 3 Stone Brick Slab 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Stone Bricks 1 Stone Brick Stairs
144 Netherrack 26 Lava 17 Obsidian 14 Stone Bricks 6 Stone Brick Stairs 4 Stone Brick Wall 3 Block of Gold 2 Chiseled Stone Bricks 1 Chest 1 Stone Brick Slab
63 Netherrack 12 Obsidian 11 Stone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Magma Block 1 Stone Brick Slab
123 Netherrack 19 Lava 13 Obsidian 13 Stone Bricks 3 Chiseled Stone Bricks 3 Iron Bars 3 Stone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
263 Netherrack 63 Polished Blackstone Bricks 38 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 31 Obsidian 20 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 18 Iron Chain 11 Lava 4 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
237 Netherrack 55 Polished Blackstone Bricks 30 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 29 Obsidian 22 Iron Chain 19 Lava 18 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 6 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
324 Netherrack 51 Polished Blackstone Bricks 40 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 33 Lava 25 Obsidian 22 Iron Chain 6 Block of Gold 6 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 6 Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Chest
55 Netherrack 11 Obsidian 10 Polished Blackstone Slab 9 Polished Blackstone Bricks 7 Polished Blackstone 6 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 3 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab
115 Netherrack 26 Lava 20 Polished Blackstone Bricks 14 Polished Blackstone Slab 11 Obsidian 10 Polished Blackstone Slab 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 2 Iron Chain 1 Chest 1 Chiseled Polished Blackstone
132 Netherrack 36 Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 11 Obsidian 2 Lava 1 Chest
130 Netherrack 36 Polished Blackstone Bricks 16 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 11 Obsidian 3 Lava 1 Block of Gold 1 Chest
145 Netherrack 24 Polished Blackstone Bricks 15 Obsidian 12 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 6 Polished Blackstone 5 Polished Blackstone Slab 3 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Lava 1 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
41 Netherrack 16 Obsidian 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 2 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 1 Block of Gold 1 Chest
92 Netherrack 21 Lava 12 Obsidian 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Polished Blackstone Bricks 1 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs
144 Netherrack 26 Lava 17 Obsidian 14 Polished Blackstone Bricks 6 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 4 Polished Blackstone Brick Wall 3 Block of Gold 2 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 1 Chest 1 Polished Blackstone Slab
63 Netherrack 12 Obsidian 11 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest 1 Magma Block 1 Polished Blackstone Brick Slab
123 Netherrack 19 Lava 13 Obsidian 13 Polished Blackstone Bricks 3 Chiseled Polished Blackstone 3 Iron Chain 3 Polished Blackstone Brick Stairs 2 Block of Gold 1 Chest
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each ruined portal chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Most ruined portal structures contain enough obsidian to make a complete portal, although in the smaller portals, there may not enough because each obsidian has a 15%‌ [ JE only ] or 20%‌ [ BE only ] chance to be replaced by crying obsidian .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Ruined Portal" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Mineshafts are common underground structures primarily found underground in the Overworld . They consist of interlinked 3×3 tunnels with incomplete rail lines running through them, with oak planks platforms bridging gaps or hanging in larger exposed caverns.
A unique variant of mineshafts made out of dark oak wood can generate on the surface in badlands biomes.
Mineshafts generate underground in any Overworld biome except for the deep dark (although a mineshaft can overlap). They generate before chunk features such as ores . Multiple mineshafts can generate near each other, producing larger complexes. When mineshafts intersect with caves and canyons , corridors generate a bridge of planks over empty space, either suspended with iron chains above or supported by log pillars below. When a mineshaft intersects with an aquifer , a barrier of solid blocks generates to prevent fluids from flowing into the mineshaft, often resulting in corridors cut off from the rest of the mineshaft. [1]
Mineshafts often generate on the surface in badlands biomes. Badlands mineshafts are composed of dark oak planks and fences with railways more complete above ground. Since badlands biomes generate gold ore often and at higher altitudes, they are good places to easily find gold.
Mineshafts are the most common generated structures in the Overworld, having a 0.4% chance to attempt to begin generating in every chunk.
All mineshafts have:
Any chest found in a mineshaft always occurs as a minecart with chest that rests on top of some rails.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each mineshaft chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each sulfur cave mineshaft chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Mineshaft" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
An igloo is an uncommon structure generated in snowy taigas , snowy plains , or snowy slopes and built mainly of snow blocks . Some igloos contain hidden labs under the carpet, which serve as a tutorial for curing a zombie villager .
Igloos generate uncommonly in snowy taigas , snowy plains , and rarely in snowy slopes .
An igloo is shaped like a small dwelling made of snow blocks. It has an entrance without a door and a carpeted interior containing a bed , furnace , and crafting table . There are two windows made of ice blocks‌ [ JE only ] /packed ice‌ [ BE only ] [1] and one redstone torch as a light source.
Half of all igloos have an oak trapdoor under the third carpet from the doorway, leading down a long ladder shaft to a basement. This passageway and the basement are built from stone bricks , some of which are infested blocks with silverfish . To the left of the ladder is a table made of stairs blocks, with a brewing stand containing one splash potion of weakness and a flower pot holding a cactus . Beside the table is a cauldron two-thirds full of water. To the right is a chest that contains a golden apple . Beyond the far wall, behind iron bars in two different cages, are a villager and a zombie villager .
Igloos that generate without a basement have a snow block in place of the trapdoor. The villagers, the brewing stand, and the chest are absent in this case.
If an igloo with a basement forms partially above open-air [verify] , the shaft with the ladder still generates.
In Java Edition , the generated villager is always unemployed and is a plains biome type. [2] The villager cannot pathfind to the brewing stand or cauldron to take on a profession unless some of the blocks confining it are broken. The generated zombie villager always has the profession of cleric and becomes unemployed if cured.
In Bedrock Edition , the villager is the snowy type with a random profession. The zombie villager is unemployed but can change its profession to cleric or leatherworker after being cured because it can claim either the brewing stand or the cauldron.
Sometimes if igloos generate at low altitudes(-30 or lower), their basement may break bedrock allowing the player to access the void .
One may access the individual structures of an igloo by using structure blocks to manually load them from the /data/minecraft/structures/igloo folder in version.jar . To do so, set a structure block to Load mode, enter igloo/ structure name , and press [LOAD] . The individual structures are bottom , middle , top .
94 Snow Block 9 White Carpet 3 Light Gray Carpet 2 Ice ‌ [ JE only ]
2 Packed Ice ‌ [ BE only ] 1 Crafting Table 1 Furnace 1 Oak Trapdoor 1 Red Bed 1 Redstone Torch
12 Stone Bricks 3 Ladder
104 Stone Bricks 17 Mossy Stone Bricks 11 Stone 8 Cracked Stone Bricks 7 Chiseled Stone Bricks 6 Infested Stone Bricks 4 Iron Bars 4 Ladder 3 Torch 2 Infested Chiseled Stone Bricks 2 Red Carpet 2 Spruce Stairs 1 Infested Mossy Stone Bricks 1 Polished Andesite 1 Cauldron 1 Chest (1 Golden Apple ) 1 Cobweb 1 Potted Cactus 1 Oak Sign 1 Spruce Slab 1 Brewing Stand with a Splash Potion of Weakness 1 Villager 1 Zombie Villager
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each igloo chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Igloo" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Swamp huts (also known as witch huts ) are small above ground structures that have the ability to spawn witches and black cats .
Swamp huts generate rarely in swamp biomes, in the north-west corner of a given chunk . They do not generate in mangrove swamps . [1]
Swamp huts can be located with swamp explorer maps , which are sold by jungle , snowy and taiga cartographers .
Swamp huts consist of a small square building made of spruce planks , with oak log pillars extending down to the ground. There is a small platform outside of the hut that could be an entrance; however, it is several blocks above the ground, and there are no stairs that go up to the hut, although vines can generate from the front platform and down to the ground. The roof of the swamp hut is made up of spruce stairs and spruce planks . The hut is two blocks tall inside.
The inside of a swamp hut consists of a cauldron , a crafting table , and a flower pot with a red mushroom in it.
In Java Edition , the cauldron is always empty, while in Bedrock Edition , the cauldron generates with 1 to 3 bottles of a random potion inside. There is a 25% chance for Potion of Healing or Poison , 15% for Swiftness , 10% for Slowness , Weakness , or Water Breathing , and 5% for Fire Resistance . [ citation needed ]
Upon world generation, one witch and one stray black cat spawn inside the hut. These never naturally despawn, however, the witch does not spawn when the difficulty is set to Peaceful.
Additionally, witches can spawn at any block within the 7×7×9 (x×y×z) area that constitutes the hut (this is the size of the roof and one block over the porch, from one level below the floor of the hut to two blocks above the roof). Cats can also spawn within this area. However, they require a grass block to spawn on. In Java Edition , any other cats to spawn within the swamp hut (from spawn eggs and commands without cat type set) always spawn as black.
Both witches and cat wander around independently from each other or the hut, and neither return to the hut on purpose.
In Bedrock Edition , witches respawn on only one block within the swamp hut if the witch is killed. The spawn point is on the hut floor, two blocks in front of the crafting table .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "Swamp hut" or "Witch hut" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
End cities are tall structures found on the outer islands of the End . They are inhabited by shulkers and hold valuable loot , including enchanted iron and diamond tools and armor . End ships , found in some End cities, are the only source of elytra and dragon heads in Survival mode without commands .
End cities naturally generate all over the End's outer islands . They can easily be accessed by entering the End gateway , but it is possible to cross the gap between the islands in other ways. They generate on the large islands, where chorus trees grow. If the End gateway teleports the player to a small island, the player can get to the nearest large island by building, using elytra , or throwing ender pearls .
End cities usually generate in flat areas, in "midlands" or "highlands" biomes [ note 1 ] , which are found on larger end islands . One may find several cities clustered together, or travel for thousands of blocks before finding one. Unlike other structures, End cities are generated in a noticeable grid. They are located only in chunks numbered 0-8 ± a multiple of 20. For example, one possible "cell" for an End city to be generated in is x_chunks=0-8 and z_chunks=80-88 which is equivalent to the coordinates x=0-128 and z=1280-1408. There can never be an End city at for example z=961-1279 or z=1409-1599 because it is outside any "cell".
End cities consist of tall skyscraper-like towers constructed out of End stone bricks and purpur blocks . An End city may generate as a single tower by itself, or as a sprawling complex of inter-connected towers and pathways branching from a main tower. End rods and ender chests are the only source of light. Many shulkers spawn around the city and guard its various treasures. Decorative banners hang at the tops of some towers.
Several types of rooms can be found in an End city, and several different floors, including:
There are two types of towers:
An End ship is a floating, boat-like structure found alongside End cities. It is relatively small, but holds even more valuable treasure than the city itself.
Each direction of every tower of the End city has a 50% chance of generating a bridge, and the bridge itself has a 12.5% chance to generate an End ship. At most one ship can generate in a given End city.
When generated, the stern of the ship always faces toward the city, and the bow always faces away. It generates in front of a bridge with a gated arch at the end, from which one can throw an ender pearl to reach the ship or build a bridge or use an elytra .
The End ship is made of End stone bricks and purpur blocks , just like the city's main towers. Their design resembles that of European square rig sailing ships, commonly seen during the golden age of exploration. Three shulkers spawn on the ship; one on the main deck, one behind the stern of the ship, and one in the treasure room.
The ship's main deck amounts to less than half of the walkable space on the ship. A ladder leads up the mast to an empty crow's nest, about 20 blocks high. There are no sails connected to the mast.
A dragon head sits at the bow of the ship, making this the only way to obtain the dragon head in Survival mode. There are two small staircases on the outside; one that leads up to the empty upper deck, and one that leads to the cabin below.
The aftercastle contains a brewing stand sitting on a small table, with two potions of Healing . Another staircase leads below deck to the ship's "hotspot"; the treasure room.
The floor of the treasure room is lined with obsidian . There are four small windows on the sides. It contains two loot chests and an item frame holding a pair of elytra ; this is the only way to obtain elytra in Survival mode. A shulker guards the elytra and the two loot chests .
One may access the individual structures of an End city by utilizing structure blocks to manually load city structures from the data/minecraft/structures/end_city folder in minecraft.jar . To do so, set a structure block to Load mode, enter end_city/ StructureName and press LOAD. The names of these structures and a small description is provided below:
68 Purpur Block 54 End Stone Bricks 12 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 2 Purpur Stairs 2 Shulker
100 Purpur Block 44 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
21 Purpur Block 4 Purpur Slab 3 Purpur Stairs 2 End Rod 1 Purpur Pillar
42 Purpur Block 22 Purpur Stairs 12 Purpur Slab 2 Purpur Pillar
20 Purpur Block 10 Purpur Stairs 4 Purpur Pillar
24 Purpur Stairs 15 Purpur Block 2 Purpur Pillar
84 Purpur Pillar 80 Purpur Block 4 End Rod 4 Purpur Stairs 3 Purpur Slab
164 Purpur Pillar 62 Purpur Block 8 End Rod 8 Purpur Slab 8 Purpur Stairs 4 Shulker
352 Purpur Block 131 Purpur Stairs 106 End Stone Bricks 26 Magenta Stained Glass 18 Purpur Pillar 9 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod 2 Chest
95 Purpur Block 84 End Stone Bricks 44 Purpur Stairs 16 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 7 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod
82 End Stone Bricks 70 Purpur Block 54 Purpur Stairs 14 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 9 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod 1 Shulker
144 Purpur Block 52 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
557 Purpur Block 175 Purpur Stairs 97 Purpur Pillar 36 End Stone Bricks 26 Obsidian 14 Ladder 7 Magenta Stained Glass 7 Purpur Slab 6 End Rod 2 Chest 1 Brewing Stand with two potions of Healing 1 Dragon Head 1 Item Frame with Elytra 3 Shulker
140 Purpur Block 90 End Stone Bricks 64 Purpur Stairs 32 Magenta Stained Glass 18 Purpur Pillar 7 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod
132 Purpur Block 98 End Stone Bricks 56 Purpur Stairs 24 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 6 End Rod 1 Chest 1 Ender Chest 2 Shulker
196 Purpur Block 60 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
40 Purpur Block 39 Purpur Pillar 4 Purpur Slab 4 Purpur Stairs 3 Ladder
36 Purpur Pillar 28 Purpur Stairs 21 Purpur Block 3 Purpur Slab
36 Purpur Pillar 12 Purpur Block 4 Purpur Slab 4 Purpur Stairs
66 Purpur Block 56 Purpur Stairs 26 End Stone Bricks 12 Purpur Pillar 8 Magenta Banner with Black Chevrons 6 Magenta Stained Glass 4 End Rod 2 Purpur Slab 1 Shulker
In Java Edition , each end city chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each end city chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "End City" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
End cities are tall structures found on the outer islands of the End . They are inhabited by shulkers and hold valuable loot , including enchanted iron and diamond tools and armor . End ships , found in some End cities, are the only source of elytra and dragon heads in Survival mode without commands .
End cities naturally generate all over the End's outer islands . They can easily be accessed by entering the End gateway , but it is possible to cross the gap between the islands in other ways. They generate on the large islands, where chorus trees grow. If the End gateway teleports the player to a small island, the player can get to the nearest large island by building, using elytra , or throwing ender pearls .
End cities usually generate in flat areas, in "midlands" or "highlands" biomes [ note 1 ] , which are found on larger end islands . One may find several cities clustered together, or travel for thousands of blocks before finding one. Unlike other structures, End cities are generated in a noticeable grid. They are located only in chunks numbered 0-8 ± a multiple of 20. For example, one possible "cell" for an End city to be generated in is x_chunks=0-8 and z_chunks=80-88 which is equivalent to the coordinates x=0-128 and z=1280-1408. There can never be an End city at for example z=961-1279 or z=1409-1599 because it is outside any "cell".
End cities consist of tall skyscraper-like towers constructed out of End stone bricks and purpur blocks . An End city may generate as a single tower by itself, or as a sprawling complex of inter-connected towers and pathways branching from a main tower. End rods and ender chests are the only source of light. Many shulkers spawn around the city and guard its various treasures. Decorative banners hang at the tops of some towers.
Several types of rooms can be found in an End city, and several different floors, including:
There are two types of towers:
An End ship is a floating, boat-like structure found alongside End cities. It is relatively small, but holds even more valuable treasure than the city itself.
Each direction of every tower of the End city has a 50% chance of generating a bridge, and the bridge itself has a 12.5% chance to generate an End ship. At most one ship can generate in a given End city.
When generated, the stern of the ship always faces toward the city, and the bow always faces away. It generates in front of a bridge with a gated arch at the end, from which one can throw an ender pearl to reach the ship or build a bridge or use an elytra .
The End ship is made of End stone bricks and purpur blocks , just like the city's main towers. Their design resembles that of European square rig sailing ships, commonly seen during the golden age of exploration. Three shulkers spawn on the ship; one on the main deck, one behind the stern of the ship, and one in the treasure room.
The ship's main deck amounts to less than half of the walkable space on the ship. A ladder leads up the mast to an empty crow's nest, about 20 blocks high. There are no sails connected to the mast.
A dragon head sits at the bow of the ship, making this the only way to obtain the dragon head in Survival mode. There are two small staircases on the outside; one that leads up to the empty upper deck, and one that leads to the cabin below.
The aftercastle contains a brewing stand sitting on a small table, with two potions of Healing . Another staircase leads below deck to the ship's "hotspot"; the treasure room.
The floor of the treasure room is lined with obsidian . There are four small windows on the sides. It contains two loot chests and an item frame holding a pair of elytra ; this is the only way to obtain elytra in Survival mode. A shulker guards the elytra and the two loot chests .
One may access the individual structures of an End city by utilizing structure blocks to manually load city structures from the data/minecraft/structures/end_city folder in minecraft.jar . To do so, set a structure block to Load mode, enter end_city/ StructureName and press LOAD. The names of these structures and a small description is provided below:
68 Purpur Block 54 End Stone Bricks 12 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 2 Purpur Stairs 2 Shulker
100 Purpur Block 44 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
21 Purpur Block 4 Purpur Slab 3 Purpur Stairs 2 End Rod 1 Purpur Pillar
42 Purpur Block 22 Purpur Stairs 12 Purpur Slab 2 Purpur Pillar
20 Purpur Block 10 Purpur Stairs 4 Purpur Pillar
24 Purpur Stairs 15 Purpur Block 2 Purpur Pillar
84 Purpur Pillar 80 Purpur Block 4 End Rod 4 Purpur Stairs 3 Purpur Slab
164 Purpur Pillar 62 Purpur Block 8 End Rod 8 Purpur Slab 8 Purpur Stairs 4 Shulker
352 Purpur Block 131 Purpur Stairs 106 End Stone Bricks 26 Magenta Stained Glass 18 Purpur Pillar 9 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod 2 Chest
95 Purpur Block 84 End Stone Bricks 44 Purpur Stairs 16 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 7 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod
82 End Stone Bricks 70 Purpur Block 54 Purpur Stairs 14 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 9 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod 1 Shulker
144 Purpur Block 52 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
557 Purpur Block 175 Purpur Stairs 97 Purpur Pillar 36 End Stone Bricks 26 Obsidian 14 Ladder 7 Magenta Stained Glass 7 Purpur Slab 6 End Rod 2 Chest 1 Brewing Stand with two potions of Healing 1 Dragon Head 1 Item Frame with Elytra 3 Shulker
140 Purpur Block 90 End Stone Bricks 64 Purpur Stairs 32 Magenta Stained Glass 18 Purpur Pillar 7 Purpur Slab 4 End Rod
132 Purpur Block 98 End Stone Bricks 56 Purpur Stairs 24 Magenta Stained Glass 12 Purpur Pillar 6 End Rod 1 Chest 1 Ender Chest 2 Shulker
196 Purpur Block 60 Purpur Stairs 4 End Rod
40 Purpur Block 39 Purpur Pillar 4 Purpur Slab 4 Purpur Stairs 3 Ladder
36 Purpur Pillar 28 Purpur Stairs 21 Purpur Block 3 Purpur Slab
36 Purpur Pillar 12 Purpur Block 4 Purpur Slab 4 Purpur Stairs
66 Purpur Block 56 Purpur Stairs 26 End Stone Bricks 12 Purpur Pillar 8 Magenta Banner with Black Chevrons 6 Magenta Stained Glass 4 End Rod 2 Purpur Slab 1 Shulker
In Java Edition , each end city chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each end city chest contains items drawn from 2 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Issues relating to "End City" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
Trail ruins are buried structures that work as archaeological sites where suspicious gravel generates. They are found in heavily forested biomes and resemble ruined villages from a lost culture. [1]
The biomes the trail ruins can be found in are the taiga , snowy taiga , old growth spruce taiga , old growth pine taiga , old growth birch forest , and the jungle . In Bedrock Edition it is also generated in biomes with the tag has_structure_trail_ruins .
Trail ruins are the only structures where mud bricks , packed mud , and blocks of coal naturally generate.
The trail ruins are structures that generate mostly underground with only the top of the tower above the ground. The ruins resemble small, ancient settlements. Each trail ruin has a main road made of cobblestone , stone , and stone bricks that connect multiple small buildings and a central tower made of stained terracotta and glazed terracotta , the tip of which is the only part of the structure that does not tend to generate underground. Adjacent to the tower generates two rooms and sometimes other small buildings and a decor made out of mud bricks and terracotta. Most of the structure is buried in gravel , dirt , and coarse dirt , as well as suspicious gravel , which may lead to the illusion that they are just a few misplaced blocks at first glance.
Trail ruins are completely solid; they don't have interior rooms.
Some blocks of suspicious gravel are generated floating. They fall and are destroyed if an adjacent block is updated. [2]
All trail ruins structures found below are located in the folder client.jar /data/minecraft/structures/trail_ruins ‌ [ JE only ] .
120 Gravel 115 Mud Bricks 17 Blue Terracotta 11 Mud Brick Stairs 9 Yellow Terracotta 7 Mud Brick Slab 6 Red Terracotta 1 Ladder 1 Dirt
130 Gravel 112 Mud Bricks 26 Cyan Terracotta 11 Mud Brick Stairs 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Dirt
157 Gravel 93 Mud Bricks 25 Orange Terracotta 10 Mud Brick Stairs 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Dirt
131 Gravel 114 Bricks 17 Brick Slab 17 Blue Terracotta 6 Light Gray Terracotta 3 White Terracotta 1 Ladder 1 Dirt
131 Gravel 114 Bricks 17 Brick Slab 17 Gray Terracotta 6 Light Gray Terracotta 3 Red Terracotta 1 Ladder 1 Dirt
173 Gravel 134 Mud Bricks 37 Blue Terracotta 9 Yellow Glazed Terracotta 7 Red Terracotta 5 Dirt 1 Damaged Anvil
176 Gravel 133 Mud Bricks 37 Light Gray Terracotta 9 Light Gray Glazed Terracotta 8 Cyan Terracotta 5 Dirt 2 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Composter
168 Gravel 145 Mud Bricks 35 Cyan Terracotta 12 White Terracotta 8 Orange Glazed Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Stairs 6 Orange Terracotta 5 Dirt
196 Gravel 131 Bricks 43 White Terracotta 8 Light Blue Glazed Terracotta 5 Dirt 3 Brick Stairs
242 Gravel 136 Bricks 5 Black Glazed Terracotta 5 Dirt
88 Mud Bricks 80 Gravel 23 Blue Terracotta 7 Red Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Slab 4 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt
102 Mud Bricks 92 Gravel 22 Cyan Terracotta 6 White Terracotta 3 Mud Brick Slab 1 Ladder 1 Dirt
115 Gravel 64 Mud Bricks 22 Orange Terracotta 5 White Terracotta 3 Mud Brick Slab 1 Ladder 1 Dirt
88 Bricks 87 Gravel 16 White Terracotta 10 Brick Slab 7 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
88 Bricks 87 Gravel 16 Red Terracotta 7 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
65 Mud Bricks 54 Gravel 29 Blue Terracotta 9 Red Terracotta 1 Dirt
68 Mud Bricks 46 Gravel 25 Cyan Terracotta 8 White Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt
67 Mud Bricks 61 Gravel 14 Orange Terracotta 7 White Terracotta 1 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt
65 Bricks 54 Gravel 29 White Terracotta 9 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
65 Bricks 54 Gravel 29 Red Terracotta 9 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
129 Gravel 87 Mud Bricks 17 Red Terracotta 15 Blue Terracotta 10 Mud Brick Stairs 10 Yellow Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Dirt
143 Gravel 78 Mud Bricks 30 White Terracotta 13 Cyan Terracotta 4 Mud Brick Stairs 3 Light Gray Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Ladder 1 Crafting Table
145 Gravel 77 Mud Bricks 29 White Terracotta 13 Orange Terracotta 4 Mud Brick Stairs 3 Light Gray Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Slab 1 Ladder 1 Crafting Table
123 Gravel 87 Bricks 17 Light Gray Terracotta 15 Blue Terracotta 11 Brick Slab 3 White Terracotta 1 Ladder
123 Gravel 87 Bricks 17 Light Gray Terracotta 15 Gray Terracotta 11 Brick Slab 3 Red Terracotta 1 Ladder
182 Gravel 150 Mud Bricks 39 Blue Terracotta 21 Red Terracotta 6 Yellow Glazed Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Stairs 2 Iron Bars 1 Smooth Stone Slab 1 Dirt 1 Blast Furnace 1 Furnace 1 Smithing Table
164 Gravel 67 Mud Bricks 28 White Terracotta 12 Light Gray Glazed Terracotta 10 Mud Brick Stairs 9 Cyan Terracotta 9 Mud Brick Wall 9 Packed Mud 7 Mud Brick Slab 1 Campfire 1 Dirt
370 Gravel 205 Mud Bricks 75 White Terracotta 36 Cyan Terracotta 23 Orange Terracotta 12 Yellow Terracotta 11 Orange Glazed Terracotta 1 Cauldron 1 Ladder 1 Loom 1 Dirt
356 Gravel 56 Bricks 9 Brick Wall 7 Brick Stairs 6 Packed Mud 3 Blue Terracotta 1 Brick Slab 1 White Terracotta 1 Dirt
531 Gravel 187 Bricks 172 Brown Terracotta 20 Black Glazed Terracotta 3 Ladder 2 Blast Furnace 1 Dirt
96 Gravel 70 Mud Bricks 31 Blue Terracotta 15 Red Terracotta 1 Cauldron 1 Dirt
87 Mud Bricks 76 Gravel 25 White Terracotta 15 Cyan Terracotta 3 Mud Brick Slab 1 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Grindstone 1 Dirt
85 Gravel 78 Mud Bricks 25 Orange Terracotta 15 White Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Slab 1 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Grindstone 1 Dirt
114 Gravel 83 Bricks 55 White Terracotta 29 Blue Terracotta 22 Light Gray Terracotta 5 Brick Stairs 1 Cartography Table 1 Brick Slab 1 Dirt
139 Gravel 47 Bricks 10 Gray Terracotta 7 Red Terracotta 1 Dirt
30 Cobblestone 21 Gravel 12 Red Terracotta 3 Coarse Dirt
18 Cobblestone 14 Gravel 11 White Terracotta 7 Red Terracotta
20 Gravel 13 Cobblestone
18 Cobblestone 12 Gravel 2 White Terracotta 1 Blue Terracotta
29 Gravel 25 Cobblestone 6 Red Terracotta 1 Coarse Dirt
12 Cobblestone 6 Gravel 4 Brick Stairs 4 Brick Slab 3 Bricks 1 Cyan Glazed Terracotta
48 Cobblestone 30 Gravel 4 Brick Stairs 2 Block of Coal 1 Red Terracotta
94 Gravel 68 Cobblestone 7 Stone Bricks 5 Cracked Stone Bricks 5 Stone
36 Gravel 29 Cobblestone
56 Gravel 26 Cobblestone 23 Stone 1 Cracked Stone Bricks
58 Gravel 37 Cobblestone 6 Cracked Stone Bricks 5 Stone 3 Stone Bricks
57 Gravel 47 Cobblestone 11 Stone
63 Gravel 47 Cobblestone 11 Stone
55 Gravel 27 Cobblestone 13 Stone 6 Stone Bricks 5 Cracked Stone Bricks
138 Gravel 121 Mud Bricks 39 Blue Terracotta 13 Red Terracotta 10 Yellow Glazed Terracotta 4 Cobblestone 3 Yellow Terracotta 2 Stone Bricks 2 Ladder 1 Crafting Table 1 Cracked Stone Bricks 1 Stone
205 Gravel 161 Mud Bricks 48 White Terracotta 23 Cyan Terracotta 20 Light Gray Glazed Terracotta 4 Cobblestone 3 Stone Bricks 1 Ladder 1 Crafting Table 1 Cracked Stone Bricks
268 Gravel 207 Mud Bricks 19 Packed Mud 16 Orange Glazed Terracotta 11 Mud Brick Stairs 11 Orange Terracotta 7 White Terracotta 5 Mud 1 Mud Brick Slab
268 Gravel 210 Bricks 15 Packed Mud 8 Orange Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Stairs 5 White Terracotta 4 Light Blue Glazed Terracotta 3 Mud 2 Mud Bricks 1 Mud Brick Slab
221 Gravel 206 Bricks 15 Packed Mud 13 Red Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Stairs 3 Mud 2 Mud Bricks 2 Black Glazed Terracotta 1 Brick Slab
205 Gravel 190 Mud Bricks 74 Blue Terracotta 21 Red Terracotta 12 Mud Brick Slab 9 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt 1 Crafting Table
181 Gravel 178 Mud Bricks 50 White Terracotta 43 Cyan Terracotta 10 Mud Brick Stairs 4 Mud Brick Slab 1 Loom 1 Dirt
200 Gravel 196 Mud Bricks 23 Packed Mud 69 Orange Terracotta 20 White Terracotta 12 Mud Brick Slab 10 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt 1 Crafting Table
188 Bricks 166 Gravel 49 White Terracotta 20 Blue Terracotta 12 Brick Slab 8 Brick Stairs 1 Dirt 1 Crafting Table
244 Gravel 117 Bricks 26 Red Terracotta 16 Gray Terracotta 2 Brick Slab 1 Dirt 1 Brick Stairs
43 Mud Bricks 32 Gravel 11 Blue Terracotta 9 Red Terracotta 1 Loom
53 Gravel 35 Mud Bricks 2 Mud Brick Stairs 2 Cyan Terracotta 1 Loom 1 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Red Terracotta
44 Mud Bricks 28 Gravel 10 Orange Terracotta 8 Cyan Terracotta 1 Loom
44 Bricks 28 Gravel 10 Blue Terracotta 8 White Terracotta 1 Loom
16 Bricks 11 Gravel 6 Red Terracotta 1 Loom
80 Gravel 77 Mud Bricks 16 Mud Brick Stairs 13 Blue Terracotta 9 Yellow Glazed Terracotta 8 Red Terracotta 3 Yellow Terracotta
107 Gravel 72 Mud Bricks 15 White Terracotta 14 Light Gray Glazed Terracotta 6 Mud Brick Stairs
79 Mud Bricks 37 Gravel 9 Orange Glazed Terracotta 7 Mud Brick Stairs
96 Gravel 93 Bricks 11 Light Blue Glazed Terracotta 10 Brick Stairs 8 Blue Terracotta 8 Light Gray Terracotta 7 White Terracotta 2 Brick Slab 1 Mud Bricks
124 Gravel 90 Bricks 13 Red Terracotta 4 Gray Terracotta 4 Light Gray Terracotta 3 Campfire 1 Mud Bricks
120 Gravel 99 Mud Bricks 47 Blue Terracotta 12 Coarse Dirt 12 Red Terracotta 2 Mud Brick Wall 1 Dirt
123 Gravel 98 Mud Bricks 52 White Terracotta 15 Cyan Terracotta 10 Coarse Dirt 2 Mud Brick Wall 1 Dirt
116 Gravel 96 Mud Bricks 47 Cyan Terracotta 13 Orange Terracotta 12 Coarse Dirt 3 Mud Brick Wall 1 Cauldron 1 Dirt
122 Gravel 96 Bricks 44 Light Gray Terracotta 14 White Terracotta 10 Coarse Dirt 3 Brick Wall 3 Blue Terracotta 1 Cauldron 1 Dirt
185 Gravel 59 Bricks 6 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
114 Gravel 56 Mud Bricks 39 Cobblestone 22 Blue Terracotta 22 Yellow Glazed Terracotta 22 Red Terracotta 11 Yellow Terracotta 11 Stone 4 Packed Mud 3 Mud Brick Slab 1 Dirt 1 Brown Stained Glass
142 Gravel 36 Cyan Terracotta 36 Cobblestone 23 Mud Bricks 23 White Terracotta 17 Light Gray Glazed Terracotta 13 Light Gray Terracotta 5 Cracked Stone Bricks 5 Stone 4 Stone Bricks 2 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt
207 Gravel 66 Cyan Terracotta 52 Cobblestone 26 Mud Bricks 22 Mud Brick Slab 21 Stone Bricks 19 Orange Glazed Terracotta 19 White Terracotta 16 Cracked Stone Bricks 14 Mud Brick Stairs 1 Dirt
218 Gravel 52 Cobblestone 25 Bricks 23 Blue Terracotta 21 Stone Bricks 20 White Terracotta 18 Light Blue Glazed Terracotta 16 Brick Slab 16 Cracked Stone Bricks 13 Light Gray Terracotta 12 Brick Stairs 1 Mud Bricks 1 Dirt
191 Gravel 52 Cobblestone 42 Gray Terracotta 27 Bricks 22 Black Glazed Terracotta 21 Stone Bricks 16 Cracked Stone Bricks 15 Brick Stairs 12 Light Gray Terracotta 12 Red Terracotta 3 Brick Slab 1 Mud Bricks 1 Dirt
17 Gravel 13 Blue Terracotta 11 Red Terracotta 3 Mud Bricks 1 Dirt 1 Mud Brick Slab
34 Gravel 9 Cyan Terracotta 8 White Terracotta 8 Light Gray Terracotta 1 Dirt
25 Gravel 15 Orange Terracotta 3 Mud Brick Slab 2 White Terracotta 1 Dirt
30 Gravel 18 White Terracotta 1 Dirt 1 Light Gray Terracotta
23 Gravel 6 Red Terracotta 1 Dirt 1 Light Gray Terracotta
The loot in trail ruins can be found by brushing suspicious gravel randomly generated throughout the structure. There are two types of suspicious gravel, common and rare. Their loot tables are listed below.
Each structure piece (see the file structure list above for piece names) contains gravel and uses one of three processor lists to replace some of the gravel with other blocks, including suspicious gravel. All of the tower_top structure pieces and everything in the roads folder replace two gravel with two common suspicious gravel. The rest replace nine gravel with six common suspicious gravel and three rare suspicious gravel. Additionally, all of the processor lists (except for the one used for the tower_top ) first replace 20% of the gravel with dirt, then 10% of the remaining gravel with coarse dirt, followed by common suspicious gravel, and finally rare suspicious gravel (if applicable). Thus, a structure piece—especially a decor structure piece—can generate less suspicious gravel than it should.
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trail ruin's suspicious gravel contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trail ruin's rare suspicious gravel contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Trail Ruins" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A vault is a block found in trial chambers that ejects loot when unlocked using a trial key . Each vault can be opened by an unlimited number of players , but each player can unlock a specific vault only once. [1]
Vaults can be obtained only by the Creative inventory , using pick block , or executing commands .
A vault has no tool associated with it and does not drop anything when destroyed.
In trial chambers , vaults can generate naturally in all rooms that also contain trial spawners , as well as the entrance room. They are found generated on small pedestals made of waxed cut copper blocks and cut copper slabs .
When a player is within 3.0 blocks of a vault, it becomes active and begins emitting flame particles inside of it. If the player has not unlocked the vault before (i.e. if the player is not in its list of players ), a stream of orange particles flows from the player to the vault's keyhole. The vault becomes inactive if there are no players within 4.0 blocks who have not unlocked the vault.
When active, a vault idly cycles between items once every second, visually displaying the current item inside the block. Each time the vault cycles to a new item, the item is randomly chosen from the loot table ( § Loot ). While the display items are chosen from the same loot table, their sequence is unrelated to the sequence rolls for items to eject while opening the vault. Small orange particles also appear in front of the vault as if they were being sucked into the keyhole.
When a trial key is used on a vault, it ejects items. Items are ejected one stack at a time with a burst of particles for each stack.
While a vault is ejecting items, it will briefly show the next item to be ejected. This should not be confused with the random items displayed while the vault is idle. These random item displays cannot be used for timing the unlocking, as the items to eject are rolled independently of whatever the idle display shows.
When a vault is finished ejecting items, it becomes inactive until another player approaches it.
Each vault can be unlocked only once per player. Vaults are intended to reward each player for completing each trial chamber one time. This gives every player in a world the opportunity to find their own loot without having to travel substantial distances to find undiscovered loot at a fresh structure.
Each vault keeps track of up to 128 unique players that have opened it. If the list of players is full and another opens the vault, the new player is added to the end of the list while the first known player is forgotten and becomes able to open the vault again. Because of this, any item dropped by vaults is functionally renewable with enough players. [2] [3] See Renewable resource § Vault .
A vault cannot be pushed by a piston or pulled by a sticky piston .
A vault ejects 2 to 5 stacks of loot, which can sometimes include a few unstackable items. It ejects a combination of loot from three different loot tables. The following information describes the loot ejected for a single player when a single trial key is used .
In Java Edition , each trial chambers vault and reward chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
In Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers vault and reward chest contains items drawn from 3 pools, with the following distribution:
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A vault has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Vault" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A trial spawner is a type of spawner found in trial chambers . It spawns mobs in waves, ejects consumable items and/or trial keys after they are all defeated, and then deactivates for 30 minutes. Having more Survival / Adventure mode players nearby results in more mobs and more rewards.
A trial spawner will convert into an active ominous trial spawner during an ominous trial , even if it was on cooldown.
Trial spawner can be obtained only by using the Creative inventory , using pick block or executing commands .
Trial spawners generate naturally in every chamber and every corridor of trial chambers , except for the entrance chamber.
No tool can accelerate the breaking process of trial spawner.
Trial spawner drops nothing when it's destroyed.
A trial spawner summons a limited number of mobs, scaled based on the number of nearby players . When these mobs are defeated, the spawner ejects a reward for each player and enters a cooldown period.
A trial spawner has a required player range of 14 blocks. Any player in Survival or Adventure mode activates the spawner if the distance between the player's center and the spawner's center becomes less than the required player range, and the spawner has a direct line of sight to the player (even if the player is invisible ). Once activated, the spawner begins summoning copies of the mob set in it, and no longer requires the player to be within range or maintain line of sight.
The line of sight check for trial spawners can pass through transparent solid blocks, such as copper grates and glass . This differs from the line of sight check for hostile mobs , which cannot pass through these blocks.
Trial spawners do not activate if the game rule spawn_mobs ‌ [ JE only ] or domobspawning ‌ [ BE only ] is false , [1] [ verify for Bedrock Edition ] , spawner_blocks_work is false , or if the difficulty is set to Peaceful . [2] [ verify for Bedrock Edition ]
When a trial spawner first activates, it shoots spark-like particles up into the air. While active, it emits smoke and flame particles around itself and any entities it summons.
The light level around a trial spawner does not affect how it summons entities.
When a player enters a trial spawner's range, the spawner attempts to spawn 1 mob every 40 game ticks (2 seconds). With 1 player, it does not spawn a mob if there are already 2 mobs from the spawner that are still alive. It spawns a total of 6 mobs before ejecting loot and going into cooldown. The number of living mobs required to prevent further mob spawning is called the simultaneous mob count. The number of mobs spawned before going into cooldown is the total mob count. These numbers are summarized in § Spawning values .
This duration of time between each mob being spawned is the spawn interval . If the spawner can't spawn a mob, it waits for the duration of the spawn interval and tries again. Once the number of living mobs spawned by the spawner has reached the simultaneous mob count, it stops trying to spawn mobs. Mobs spawned by the spawner do not naturally despawn, but the spawner does not detect or count living mobs from unloaded chunks . Therefore, moving mobs into unloaded chunks causes them to build up and the spawner to continue spawning more.
A trial spawner also stops spawning mobs if the number of living mobs spawned by it reached the total mob count. The spawner doesn't need to detect these mobs being alive, and therefore still counts them if they are in unloaded chunks. The spawner detects the death of the mobs only for the total mob count, and it always detects the death of the mobs even if it is not in a loaded chunk.
Both the simultaneous mob count and the total mob count increase if another player comes within the spawner's range. For each additional player present, the simultaneous mob count increases by 1, and the total mob count increases by 2. For example, with 2 players, 8 mobs spawn in total with 3 at once, and with 3 players, 10 mobs spawn in total with 4 at once.
If a player leaves the detection range of a trial spawner, these values do not scale back down.
The values described above are the default values used when trial spawners are placed manually. Naturally generated spawners in trial chambers use different values. Additionally, these numbers can be configured by modifying the block's NBT data.
Naturally generating trial spawners in trial chambers use different values for the spawn interval , the total mob count, and the simultaneous mob count. The quantity that the last 2 values change by with additional players is also different for different types of spawners. All naturally generated spawners attempt to spawn mobs every 20 game ticks (1 second), or every 160 game ticks (8 seconds) for the slow versions of the spawners. Additionally, naturally generated breeze spawners allow 1 breeze to exist at once (+0.5 for each additional player present) and stop after spawning 2 mobs (+1 for each additional player present). Baby zombie spawners allow 2 baby zombies to exist at once (+0.5 for each additional player present) and stop after spawning 6 mobs (+2 for each additional player present). All other spawners generated in trial chambers use the default value of 6 total mobs , plus 2 for each additional player present, and 3 simultaneous mobs , plus 2 for each additional player present. This is summarized in § Spawning values .
Mobs spawn in positions that have a line of sight to the trial spawner, in a 4-block spherical radius . This is different from the monster spawner , which has a larger, rectangular spawning box, and no line-of-sight requirement. Otherwise, the standard mob spawning rules apply (mobs cannot collide with blocks, guardians and elder guardians spawn only in water, etc.)
All mobs spawned by a trial spawner must be defeated before the trial spawner can eject loot. A mob is considered defeated when it is killed, enters a block (in the case of silverfish), enters another dimension , or transforms into another entity (excepting for creepers transforming into charged creepers; the charged creepers must be defeated before the trial spawner is completed).
If a mob spawns more mobs upon death, only the initial mob must be defeated to cause the spawner to eject loot (i.e. slimes and magma cubes).
Upon completion, a trial spawner enters a cooldown state for 30 minutes (36000 game ticks ) before it can be activated again. The cooldown timer decreases even if the trial spawner is unloaded. [3]
Using a spawn egg on a trial spawner sets the trial spawner's type to that egg's entity. If a spawn egg is renamed on an anvil , then used on the spawner, all mobs from that spawner will be named.
Trial spawners placed by players have the same loot data as those found in trial chambers. However, if it becomes an ominous trial spawner it will keep its same loot and will not update to use the Ominous loot.
When all mobs have been killed, the trial spawner waits 40 ticks (2 seconds). Then, every 30 ticks (1.5 seconds), it ejects random items from the loot table. It does this for every detected player. It has a 50% chance of picking a trial key , in which case it drops for all players. The other 50% of the time it drops one of the other items for each player. In Java Edition and Bedrock Edition , each trial chambers trial spawner contains 1 item stack, with the following distribution:
A player with Bad Omen that is within the activation range of a trial spawner is given the Trial Omen effect, starting an ominous trial . During an ominous trial, trial spawners near a player with Trial Omen are converted into ominous trial spawners . When a trial spawner becomes ominous, all of its existing mobs are despawned. If the trial spawner was on cooldown and was not ominous before going on cooldown, the cooldown is skipped when becoming ominous.
Trial spawner can't be pushed by pistons or pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A trial spawner has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
The source of the effects is irrelevant for the purposes of this advancement. Other status effects may be applied to the player, but are ignored for this advancement.
Issues relating to "Trial Spawner" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
A monster spawner is a type of spawner found in a variety of structures . It constantly summons instances of the mob displayed within it as long as a player is in range and the light levels are correct for that mob type to spawn nearby. It only drops experience orbs when broken, and cannot be moved from where it is found.
Monster spawners cannot be obtained in Survival, even with Silk Touch .
A monster spawner can be obtained in Creative mode by taking it from Creative inventory, by using the / give command , or by using pick block . It is initially empty and inert, but can be configured to spawn a desired mob by using a spawn egg on the placed block.
A / setblock , / clone or / fill command can also be used to obtain a monster spawner.
If broken with a pickaxe , a monster spawner drops 15-43 experience . When mined with anything else, it drops nothing.
Monster spawners can generate naturally in the following places:
A monster spawner spawns mobs in an (at most) 9×3×9 volume (see § Mechanics ) around it when the player is within 16 blocks. Suitable spawning locations for the block's mob type are provided in or around the spawning volume. The monster spawner attempts to spawn four mobs around it, then waits from 10 to 39.95 seconds before attempting to spawn more.
In Peaceful difficulty, monster spawners still activate but do not spawn monsters , including zombie horses and camel husks in Java Edition .
Monster spawners are transparent , but they behave like leaves in that they diffuse sky light coming from directly above.
A monster spawner activates when a player (that's not in Spectator mode) comes within a spherical radius of 16 blocks from the center point of the block; i.e. 15.5 blocks from the monster spawner itself. The player's presence is determined by coordinates at their foot level, meaning that a player standing exactly 15.5 blocks below the spawner doesn't activate it, even though their head is in range. In Java Edition an active monster spawner attempts to spawn mobs within a 4-block horizontal and 1-block vertical range; that is, in a 9×3×9 volume centered on the monster spawner. In Bedrock Edition , the horizontal spawning range is 4 blocks taxicab distance , creating spawning volume extending 4 blocks in each cardinal horizontal direction from the sides of the monster spawner; its horizontal cross-section is therefore diamond-shaped. Mobs can spawn anywhere in this range that is suitable, with mobs more likely to spawn closer to the monster spawner than farther away.
While mobs are spawned at fractional x and z-coordinates (i.e. not aligned to blocks), they are spawned at an integer y-coordinate. Horizontally, a mob can spawn with its center point anywhere within range, but vertically, mobs spawn with their legs at either the same layer as the monster spawner block, one block above it, or one block below it. (Note that when there are other blocks slightly intersecting the mob's hitbox, they can sometimes glitch further away - often up - but this does not make it a true spawning point.)
A monster spawner attempts to spawn 4 mobs at randomly chosen points within the spawning volume, then waits anywhere from 200 to 799 ticks (10 to 39.95 seconds) before spawning again. As it waits, the mob model inside the block spins faster and faster. Except for the normal solid-block spawning requirement, all the remaining ones must be met (not in a solid block, correct light level, etc.), so the monster spawner often produces fewer than 4 mobs. When it does spawn, more flame particles temporarily appear around it, and puffs of smoke are emitted from the spawned mobs in Java Edition or the northwest corner of the spawner in Bedrock Edition . If the monster spawner fails to spawn any mobs because it did not pick any suitable locations, it repeats this process every tick until it succeeds. It starts the next wait cycle only after successfully spawning at least one mob.
If 6 or more mobs of a monster spawner's type have their hitbox intersecting a 9×9×9 volume centered on the monster spawner block in Java Edition or a 16×10×16 volume centered on the lower northwest corner of the monster spawner block in Bedrock Edition , the monster spawner "poofs" without creating any mobs and then waits for the next cycle. [ needs testing in Bedrock Edition ] This is checked before each of the four spawn attempts.
A monster spawner performs a relaxed version of the ordinary spawning check: the general solid block requirement is removed, but the volume (hitbox of the mob) is kept along with some other checks according to mob specifics. As a result, for some types of mobs to spawn in the outer planes of the spawning volume, some planes outside the volume may also need to be free of solid blocks to conform with the mobs' height, width, or other rules governing their individual spawn volumes. Examples:
For all of the volumes listed in the table, the horizontal plane is centered on the center of the monster spawner. While the spawning volume for pigs is 8.9×2.9×8.9, the requirement of grass blocks that are necessary for pigs to spawn reduces the actual volume in which they successfully spawn to 8.9×1.0×8.9. Other mobs can spawn in mid- air , ignoring general rules about spawning on solid ground.
The spawn conditions do not include biomes for most mobs. As such, monster spawners can place mobs where they normally wouldn't generate. For example, a mooshroom monster spawner can operate in a plains biome as long as there are mycelium blocks within the spawn area because the mooshroom's spawning code checks only for mycelium. The reason mooshrooms are not actually spawned elsewhere is that the game does not normally try to spawn them in other biomes: only the mushroom field biome has mooshroom on the list of things to spawn.
The way a monster spawner can be disabled depends on the entity it tries to spawn.
For a monster spawner that generates mobs that spawn only in dark conditions (light level = 0), a torch placed on any side or top of the monster spawner is sufficient to disable it for the whole 9×3×9 volume.
For a blaze or silverfish spawner, a light level of 12 is required to prevent spawning. This can be achieved by:
A monster spawner is also disabled by filling the spawning volume with solid blocks . This is often used to disable magma cube monster spawners, as magma cubes can spawn in any light level. However, since all magma cubes require the space of a large magma cube in order to spawn, a clever placement of as little as 9 solid blocks a layer above the monster spawner (see right image) can completely disable it.
In Java Edition , using commands , monster spawners can be customized:
Detailed technical information about custom monster spawners can be found below .
In Bedrock Edition , monster spawner customization cannot be done in the base game (i.e. without addons/behavior packs).
Monster spawners cannot be pushed by pistons . They also cannot be pushed nor pulled by sticky pistons .
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
A monster spawner has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.
Java Edition :
Bedrock Edition :
Issues relating to "Monster Spawner" or "Spawner" are maintained on the bug tracker . Issues should be reported and viewed there .
