Bulbasaur resembles a small amphibian/frog, but it bears three claws on each of its feet and has no tail. It also has large, red eyes and small, sharp teeth. Its skin is a light, turquoise color with dark, green spots. Its most notable feature, however, is the aforementioned bulb on its back, which according to its entry in the Pokédex , was planted there at birth. It also seems that it uses vines that grow out of its back as weapons, they are easily extractable.
A Bulbasaur often rests in bright places so its bulb can absorb sunlight. While it sleeps, the seed on its back catches the rays and uses the energy to grow. In the wild, Bulbasaur tend to be very rare, as they are shy creatures that prefer the company of their own kind. However, they are also generally very docile, tame, and loyal to people that they trust, and for that reason are one of the species of Pokémon available for starting trainers to choose in the region of Kanto.
Each Bulbasaur has a "bulb" on its back that grows steadily larger as it matures. This bulb contains a seed which uses photosynthesis to supply Bulbasaur with energy. Its bulb is also used to store the energy that the seed absorbs, which can be used when it is necessary. It is assumed that when a Bulbasaur collects enough energy and sunlight in its bulb as well as it starts glowing, it will evolve into an Ivysaur .
The plants are able to become mobile by virtue of their active hosts, allowing them to move out of shaded areas and thus benefiting them as well.
Bulbasaur evolves into Ivysaur starting at level 16 and then evolves into Venusaur starting at level 32.
[ Notes 1 ]
Ash's Bulbasaur is exceptionally the strongest Grass-type starter Pokémon and becomes a peacemaker of both Grass and Water-type Pokémon in Professor Oak's lab. It strikes up its friendship with May's Bulbasaur when they are searching for the missing Poké Balls, and it was also the one who teaches May's as they stay in the lab until it evolves twice in its evolutionary stages. In the XY series, It was later followed by Shauna's Bulbasaur, and like May's Bulbasaur was used for the Pokémon Contests, Shauna's Bulbasaur was used for the Pokémon Showcase until it evolves into Ivysaur.
Bulbasaur appearing on an Egyptian papyrus, in a Ryme City infomercial
Bulbasaur is based on a frog . [2] [3]
Its Japanese name, Fushigidane, is a combination of 不思議 fushigi (strange) and 種 tane (seed). It's also a pun on the phrase 不思議 だね (fushigi da ne, "isn't it strange?"). Its Thai name, ฟุชิกิดาเนะ, is a transliteration of this name.
Its Korean name, 이상해씨 ( Isanghessi ) comes from Isanghada (이상하다), which means strange and ssi (씨), which means seed.
Its English name, Bulbasaur, comes from "bulb" and "dinosaur". Its Arabic (بولباصور), Bulgarian (Бълбазор), Hebrew (בלבאזור), Hindi (बल्बासॉर), and Russian (Бульбазавр) names are transliterations of this name.
Its French name, Bulbizarre, comes from bulbe (bulb) and bizarre (bizarre).
Its German name, Bisasam, comes from Bisamratte (muskrat) and Samen (seed).
Its Brazilian Portuguese anime dub name, Bulbasauro, comes from bulbo (bulb) and dinossauro (dinosaur), based on its English name.
Its Lithuanian name, Balbazauras, is based on its English name.
Ivysaur's appearance is very similar to that of its pre-evolved form, Bulbasaur . It still retains the turquoise skin and spots, along with its red eyes. Ivysaur's top fangs are now larger and are visible outside of its mouth. Also, its ears are now darkened to black in the center. Carrying the weight of the bud on its back makes Ivysaur's legs stronger. The most notable change is that the bulb is starting to bloom, with pink petals visible, and large leaves on the bloom bottom.
Ivysaur are able to naturally learn the powerful Grass-type attack Solar Beam, a move whose execution time depends largely upon the weather; it takes an excruciatingly long amount of time to perform this attack in hail, rain, or a sandstorm, but nearly no time at all in bright sunlight. Luckily, the latter is ​most common in the habitats of these Pokémon, as it is vital that the bulbs on their backs receive ample sunlight so that they can photosynthesize and develop. As the bulbs grow larger and these Ivysaur become more powerful, they must spend increasing amounts of time in the sun in order to foster their growth. When Ivysaur are preparing to evolve into Venusaur, they will spend more time sunbathing and their bulbs will begin emanating a sweet, pleasant aroma.
Its blossom on its back grows larger in the sunlight. As the blossom grows, Ivysaur loses the ability to stand on its hind legs. The blossom produces a pleasant smell when it is ready to bloom, it means Ivysaur is ready to evolve into Venusaur .
Ivysaur evolves from Bulbasaur starting at level 16 and evolves into Venusaur starting at level 32.
When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs.
The bulb on its back grows by drawing energy. It gives off an aroma when it is ready to bloom.
Exposure to sunlight adds to its strength. Sunlight also makes the bud on its back grow larger.
If the bud on its back starts to smell sweet, it is evidence that the large flower will soon bloom.
The bulb on its back grows as it absorbs nutrients. The bulb gives off a pleasant aroma when it blooms.
There is a bud on this Pokémon's back. To support its weight, Ivysaur's legs and trunk grow thick and strong. If it starts spending more time lying in the sunlight, it's a sign that the bud will bloom into a large flower soon.
There is a plant bulb on its back. When it absorbs nutrients, the bulb is said to blossom into a large flower.
To support its bulb, Ivysaur's legs grow sturdy. If it spends more time lying in the sunlight, the bud will soon bloom into a large flower.
When the bud on its back starts swelling, a sweet aroma wafts to indicate the flower's coming bloom.
This Pokémon did not appear in Sun and Moon.
The bud on its back grows by drawing energy. It gives off an aroma when it is ready to bloom.
The more sunlight Ivysaur bathes in, the more strength wells up within it, allowing the bud on its back to grow larger.
Ivysaur first appeared in Bulbasaur's Mysterious Garden .
May owns an Ivysaur after her Bulbasaur evolved sometimes after The Right Place and the Right Mime and later evolved into Venusaur prior to Pruning a Passel of Pals! .
Shauna also owns an Ivysaur after her Bulbasaur evolved offscreen prior to Tag Team Battle Inspiration! .
Ivysaur is a playable character in both Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , as one of the three Pokémon usable by the Pokémon Trainer , with the others being Charizard and Squirtle . Ivysaur is surprisingly agile in the game, being able to jump to a great height and attack with great speed . Its moves, based upon Grass -type moves in the Pokémon games, are Solar Beam , Vine Whip , Razor Leaf , and Bullet Seed .
Ivysaur was confirmed to be based on frogs by Ken Sugimori in a Japanese interview, where he described the Bulbasaur line to be "a creature that is something like a frog". [2] [3]
Additionally, Ivysaur's large, rounded snout; wide mouth, wide-set eyes, blotch-patterned skin, and quadruped-like movements are vaguely similar to those of certain amphibians, such as the common toad. Unlike Bulbasaur, Ivysaur's "ears" do have hollows, indicating that they are, in fact, ears and not glands, as seen in many species of frogs and toads .
The bulb on its back now resembles the bud of a genus of parasitic flowering plants known as Rafflesia .
"Ivysaur" is derived from "ivy" and "dinosaur".
It is the mascot for Pokémon Green and Pokémon LeafGreen Version .
Venusaur is a large, amphibian-like Pokémon that somewhat resembles its pre-evolved forms, Ivysaur and Bulbasaur . Its skin still retains a light turquoise color, but it no longer has the spots, and it appears more rough and scaly, with bumps here and there. The former bulb on its back has now fully bloomed into a gigantic flower, which contains multiple colours pink, yellow, etc. Its ears have lightened up as well. Female Venusaur are slightly different because they have a seed on their back, which shows that it can give birth to a new Bulbasaur .
Female Venusaur have bulbs sticking out of the tops of their flowers whilst Male Venusaurs do not.
Venusaur absorbs sunlight to gain energy and to feed its flower, located on its back. After gaining a certain amount of sunlight, the flower will release a sweet aroma said to soothe the emotions of people. Additionally, after a rainy day, the smell of the flower's aroma grows stronger, attracting other Pokémon.
The power of Gigantamaxing has made Venusaur's flower bloom so large that it covers the Pokémon's body. The flower's petals are extremely thick and springy enough to repel halfhearted attacks. During battle, the Pokémon uses these petals as a shield and swings its two thick vines around to attack its target.
The flower on the Pokémon's back spews so much pollen that it resembles a volcanic eruption. Inhaling the pollen can cause uncontrollable sneezing, and breathing in too much of it can even cause fainting. However, the pollen also stimulates plant growth. Places where the pollen falls are said to grow thick with large plants.
Venusaur are powerful but relatively nonviolent Pokémon. Despite their menacing appearances, Venusaur are docile Pokémon, preferring to sunbathe so that the plants on their backs can photosynthesize rather than fight. They follow sunny patches that reach the forest floor as the sun moves across the sky. With enough solar energy, the flowers on their backs can release a fragrance that calms both hostile Pokémon and people alike. The scent also attracts a number of Bug-type Pokémon to the flowers as well to aid in their pollination during the breeding season. This ability allows Venusaur to serve as peacekeepers of sorts in their native forests, not only stopping fights that break out in their territories, but also defending their domains from dangers with their might if necessary. Female Venusaur have seeds in their flowers, which they plant into the backs of their offspring to grow into new plants. Their gentle dispositions but great power are what make them one of the most well-rounded Pokémon any Kantonian trainer could start their Pokémon journeys with.
Venusaur evolves from Ivysaur starting at level 32 and is the final evolution of Bulbasaur . Venusaur can Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur using its Venusaurite , and can also Gigantamax into Gigantamax Venusaur .
The plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight.
The flower on its back catches the sun's rays. The sunlight is then absorbed and used for energy.
By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun's rays, it fills its body with power.
It is able to convert sunlight into energy. As a result, it is more powerful in the summertime.
As it warms itself and absorbs the sunlight, its flower petals release a pleasant fragrance.
There is a large flower on Venusaur's back. The flower is said to take on vivid colors if it gets plenty of nutrition and sunlight. The flower's aroma soothes the emotions of people.
A bewitching aroma wafts from its flower. The fragrance becalms those engaged in a battle.
Venusaur's flower is said to take on vivid colors if it gets plenty of nutrition and sunlight. The flower's aroma soothes the emotions of people.
After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon.
The flower on its back catches the sun's rays. The sunlight is then absorbed and used for energy. Mega Evolution : In order to support its flower, which has grown larger due to Mega Evolution, its back and legs have become stronger.
Its plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight. Gigantamax : In battle, this Pokémon swings around two thick vines. If these vines slammed into a 10-story building, they could easily topple it.
A bewitching aroma wafts from its flower. The fragrance becalms those engaged in a battle. Gigantamax : Huge amounts of pollen burst from it with the force of a volcanic eruption. Breathing in too much of the pollen can cause fainting.
While it basks in the sun, it can convert the light into energy. As a result, it is more powerful in the summertime.
By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun’s rays, it fills its body with power.
After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon. Mega Evolution : In order to support its flower, which has grown larger due to Mega Evolution, its back and legs have become stronger.
In the Pokémon Trading Card Game , Venusaur cards have been released (always in the limited frequency called "Rare") in the Base Set (included in Base Set 2 and the Legendary Collection), Gym Challenge (as Erika’s Venusaur), Expedition (2 normal cards and a rare holographic version), EX: FireRed and LeafGreen (as Venusaur EX), EX: Crystal Guardians (as a rare version), and as a promotional cards, a promo card Venusaur. Venusaur’s most famous appearance as a card was in the Base Set (pictured), where it was known for the "Energy Trans" Pokémon Power and Solarbeam attack. Its recent appearance as "Venusaur EX" is a beefed-up version of the original, with the same Energy Trans Poké-Power and a more powerful Solarbeam attack that does 90 points of damage.
In Super Smash Bros. Melee , Venusaur is one of the Pokémon that can be freed from the Poké Ball item. When freed, it uses the move Earthquake , a Ground -type move. It covers a lot of ground and launches opponents with great vertical knockback.
Venusaur is a combination of 'Venus flytrap' and 'Dinosaur'.
Concept art of Charmander.
Charmander is a bipedal, reptilian Pokémon with a primarily orange body and blue eyes. Its underside from the chest down and the soles of its feet are cream-colored. It has two small fangs visible in its upper jaw and two smaller fangs in its lower jaw. A fire burns at the tip of this Pokémon's slender tail and has blazed there since Charmander's birth. The flame can be used as an indication of Charmander's health and mood, burning brightly when the Pokémon is strong, weakly when it is exhausted, wavering when it is happy, and blazing when it is enraged. It is said that Charmander dies if its flame goes out. However, if the Pokémon is healthy, the flame will continue to burn even if it gets a bit wet and is said to steam in the rain.
Charmander is easily the most mild-mannered and well-behaved of its evolution line. Its feelings and emotions can be read by the flame on the tip of its tail. It flares up in a fury when Charmander is angry. The flame will flicker and grow small and dim if Charmander is sick or hurt. If it growls, that means it's angry or is about to attack.
Charmander, however, doesn't do well with impatient people. It doesn't appreciate being rushed, and most of the time, will not allow it. It is a sweet Pokémon, but is feisty nonetheless. Charmander doesn't enjoy accepting favors, because it feels it owes something in return. It is extremely loyal to its loved ones, and knows a good thing when it sees it. It will treat those in its life accordingly.
Charmander is rarely found in the wild since it's a first partner Pokémon. Sometimes they gather in extremely hot areas such as active volcanoes or in craggy mountains and in caves along the coast of the Sevii Islands .
Charmander evolves into Charmeleon starting at level 16 and then evolves into Charizard starting at level 36.
Obviously prefers hot places. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail.
The flame at the tip of its tail makes a sound as it burns. You can only hear it in quiet places.
The flame on its tail shows the strength of its life force. If it is weak, the flame also burns weakly.
The flame on its tail indicates Charmander's life force. If it is healthy, the flame burns brightly.
If it's healthy, the flame on the tip of its tail will burn vigorously, even if it gets a bit wet.
The flame that burns at the tip of its tail is an indication of its emotions. The flame wavers when Charmander is enjoying itself. If the Pokémon becomes enraged, the flame burns fiercely.
From the time it is born, a flame burns at the tip of its tail. Its life would end if the flame were to go out.
It has a preference for hot things. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail.
The flame that burns at the tip of its tail is an indication of its emotions. The flame wavers when Charmander is happy, and blazes when it is enraged.
The fire on the tip of its tail is a measure of its life. If healthy, its tail burns intensely.
The flame on its tail shows the strength of its life-force. If Charmander is weak, the flame also burns weakly.
If Charmander is healthy, the flame on the tip of its tail will burn vigorously and won’t go out even if it gets a bit wet.
Charmander appears to be predominantly reptilian in origin, and may have been partially inspired by the mythical salamander (as opposed to the real-world amphibian of the same name which inspired its mythical counterpart). This salamander was a fire-spirit capable of surviving in extreme heat or flames, and it is sometimes creatively rendered or interpreted in the shape of a lizard .
Physically, Charmander has a slender body, a short nose, and a long tail, as well as other lizard-like characteristics. The fact that it does not undergo a metamorphosis stage (beyond its own evolutionary pattern) but instead grows into a larger version of itself as it matures indicates, among other things, that Charmander has more in common with reptiles (such as lizards) than with amphibians (such as real-world salamanders).
Charmander is combination of 'char' (to burn) and 'salamander'.
Charmeleon is a small, bipedal, dinosaur-like Pokémon with an appearance similar to that of its pre-evolved form, Charmander . Charmeleon differs from Charmander in that it has a much darker red skin color, a larger body structure, claws, and a horn-like protrusion on the back of its head, similar to that of an ornithopod's . Its claws are razor sharp and its tail is very strong.
Charmeleon, like its other evolutionary forms, can naturally breathe fire. Its powers, though, are much greater than Charmander's, but not as great as Charizard's.
Charmeleon is also much more aggressive than Charmander. It is believed to have a vicious nature and will constantly seek out opponents. Strong opponents excite this Pokémon, causing it to spout bluish-white flames that torch its surroundings. It is a very ruthless, pitiless and zealous fighter often using its claws. However, it will relax once it has won.
In their fervor, their tails often begin to burn a bluish-white; at night, they can light up mountainsides like stars if groups of them are present. Enraged Charmeleon often take out their anger on their surroundings, incinerating anything flammable around them with unrestrained Flamethrowers.
This stage is often likened to a human’s teenage years--moody and reckless. For starting trainers, reining in disobedient Charmeleon can be extremely challenging, as well as potentially dangerous if not handled well. However, with proper care and treatment, a trainer can earn a Charmeleon’s respect, and eventually its obedience as well.
Charmeleon, along with Charmander and Charizard, can be found in hot, rocky mountainous areas.
Charmeleon evolves from Charmander starting at level 16 and evolves into Charizard starting at level 36.
When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the temperature to unbearably high levels.
Tough fights could excite this Pokémon. When excited, it may blow out bluish-white flames.
It is very hot-headed by nature, so it constantly seeks opponents. It calms down only when it wins.
It has a barbaric nature. In battle, it whips its fiery tail around and slashes away with sharp claws.
If it becomes agitated during battle, it spouts intense flames, incinerating its surroundings.
Charmeleon mercilessly destroys its foes using its sharp claws. If it encounters a strong foe, it turns aggressive. In this excited state, the flame at the tip of its tail flares with a bluish white color.
It lashes about with its tail to knock down its foe. It then tears up the fallen opponent with sharp claws.
When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the air temperature to unbearably high levels.
Without pity, its sharp claws destroy foes. If it encounters a strong enemy, it becomes agitated, and the flame on its tail flares with a bluish white color.
In the rocky mountains where Charmeleon live, their fiery tails shine at night like stars.
This Pokémon did not appear in Sun and Moon.
This Pokémon did not appear in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon.
Tough fights could excite this Pokémon. When excited, it may breathe out bluish-white flames.
When it swings its burning tail, the temperature around it rises higher and higher, tormenting its opponents.
It is very hotheaded by nature, so it constantly seeks opponents to battle against. Its aggression will not be quelled if it doesn’t win.
Charmeleon resembles a small dinosaur with remnants of Charmander's salamander -like appearance, with the body plan of a therapod and the head crest of a Parasaurolophus .
Although its nomenclature suggests commonality with the chameleon , Charmeleon exhibits very few of the major physiologically distinguishing traits of the chameleon. Charmeleon does not have the specialized zygodactylic feet, separately mobile eyes, extrudable tongue, or ability to change color like some members of the chameleon species. The few characteristics it does share are the snout, a prominent head crest (which resembles a small horn in its Generation I back sprite), and extensive use of its tail. Chameleons have prehensile tails used for climbing and grasping, while Charmeleon utilizes its tail as a weapon.
It is the version mascot for Pocket Monsters Red Version , Pokémon Red Version , and their Generation III remake, Pokémon FireRed Version .
Concept art of Charizard for Pokémon: Twilight Wings .
Charizard is a large, draconic Pokémon that differs greatly from its pre-evolved forms. The red skin coloration of Charmeleon is no longer apparent, as Charizard appears to have reverted to the orange/yellow coloration of Charmander . Two large fangs can be seen when its mouth is closed. When its mouth is open, its lower fangs and a slender but long tongue can be seen. The single horn that was on the back of its head is now two, one on either side. The most notable difference between Charizard and its pre-evolved forms are the large, dragon-like wings that have developed on its back, which gives Charizard the capability of flying.
In Generation II , Charizard's Shiny form was purple with the inside of its wings being green. In Generation III onwards, its orange skin is black while the blue of its wings is maroon.
Concept art of Mega Charizard X and Mega Charizard Y.
Charizard's Mega Evolution form using Charizardite X is significantly different yet more ferocious from its standard appearance, as it now has a black body color and blue flames from its mouth and on its tail. While using Charizardite Y, Mega Charizard has a big horn on the top of its head and larger wings, but still resembles its normal look. A Shiny Mega Charizard X has a dark greenish body and its wings become red. Mega Charizard Y as a Shiny has its overall colors the same as its normal Shiny form but the body's shade is slightly lighter.
As Gigantamax , it becomes larger and physically fit. The lower part of its body glows white with several yellow diamonds located on lower belly. There are also diamonds spots located on the front legs. The claws located on hand and feet become longer and sharp. The feet become longer and digitigrade, retaining small glowing soles under the forefeet. The wings are transformed into literal flame wings extending to the shoulder blade and two flames located on the horns. The sclera of the eyes becomes yellow, the glow of a flame can be seen in the mouth and the teeth grow, with the lower front teeth and three teeth in the middle now protruding when the mouth is closed. The flame on the tail extends out and has three red clouds surrounding it. Gigantamax Charizard's flames increase whenever it roars. The wings are capable of being hotter than magma which Charizard uses to burn its opponents.
The fire on Charizard's tail will change to a bluish-white color if it is furious. Given its dragon-like appearance, it is logical that Charizard is capable of learning many Dragon -type moves, such as Dragon Breath , Dragon Pulse , etc. However, it becomes a true Dragon -type as Mega Charizard X.
Charizard are noble and will not turn the full power of their flame on opponents significantly weaker than themselves. They are also known to be very eager to battle. Charizard seeks out stronger foes and only breathes fire during battles with worthy opponents. The fiery breath is so hot that it can turn any material to slag. They can be very dangerous and aggressive if provoked, but like its previous evolutions, Charizard is generally friendly and loyal to a skilled Trainer . Charizard only ignores its Trainer if it feels that they do not care about it.
In the anime , only a weak or poorly trained Charizard actively shows off its power, as said by Liza in " Charizard's Burning Ambitions ". In rare cases, Charizard will evolve from a less civilized Charmeleon and keep an unpreferable behavior. In any such cases, training will work but will be difficult.
Charizard evolves from Charmeleon starting at level 36 and is the final evolution of Charmander . Charizard can Mega Evolve into either Mega Charizard X using its Charizardite X or Mega Charizard Y using its Charizardite Y , and can also Gigantamax into Gigantamax Charizard . Mega Charizard X has its Flying type changed into Dragon .
Charizard made its first appearance as a Pokémon that can randomly be summoned from a Poké Ball . When summoned, it uses Flamethrower to attack opponents.
Charizard returns in Melee and has the same function as in the first game.
Charizard makes its first appearance as a playable character. It is part of the Pokémon Trainer 's rotation along with Squirtle and Ivysaur . If Ivysaur gets low on stamina or KO'd, the player can switch it out for Charizard. If Charizard itself gets low on stamina or defeated, they can switch it out for Squirtle. Its Neutral Special is Flamethrower , its Side Special is Rock Smash , its Up Special is Fly , and its Down Special is Pokémon Change. When using its Final Smash, Triple Finish, all three of the Pokémon come out and perform a mighty combined attack. Charizard uses Fire Blast to attack, while Squirtle and Ivysaur use Hydro Pump and Solarbeam , respectively. A message appears on-screen saying "It's Super Effective!" regardless of how much the affected opponent gets launched afterwards.
Charizard reappears in the fourth game, but is its own individual character, as Pokémon Trainer, Squirtle, and Ivysaur were cut from the game. The stamina feature is now gone. While it shares most of its moveset, some things have changed. Rock Smash now replaces Pokémon Change as its Down Special. It has a new Side Special called Flare Blitz . When it uses Flare Blitz, it quickly charges forward while surrounded by fire. However, if it hits anything, it takes damage too. Its Final Smash has now changed from Triple Finish to Mega Evolution. When used, it mega evolves into Mega Charizard X and starts attacking with greater power and is able to fly.
Charizard reappears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . It is back to being one of the Pokémon Trainer's Pokémon like in Brawl . Its Down Special went back to Pokémon Change. While it still has Flare Blitz as its Side Special, it is now incapable of using Rock Smash. In addition, its Final Smash went back to Triple Finish. In this game, the stamina feature is removed for all three Pokémon.
Charizard resembles stereotypical European dragons , which are heavily associated with the element of fire in Western folklore. This would later be reflected in the Fire / Dragon typing of Mega Charizard X. Considering the lizard basis of its pre-evolutions and Japanese and English nomenclature, Charizard's draconic design may be a reference to how various types of lizards are named after dragons, most notably Komodo Dragons and Flying Dragons —two categories of lizards with which Charizard shares loose physical similarities.
Mega Charizard Y has characteristics of pterosaurs such as the Pteranodon .
Its Japanese name, Lizardon (リザードン, Hepburn: Rizādon), is probably a combination of a pronunciation of the word Rizādo (Lizard) and "Dragon". Also, -don is a suffix in a few dinosaur names, meaning "tooth". "Don" as the last part of its name would probably cause people to imagine it as a dinosaur-like Pokémon.
Its Korean name, Rijamong (리자몽), is a combination of the English words "lizard" and "monster" and the Korean word "ryong" (룡(龍), dragon), or possibly a corruption of the Japanese name.
Its English name, Charizard, is a combination of "char", meaning burnt, and "lizard".
Its French name, Dracaufeu, is a combination of the words "dragon" or Latin "draco" and "feu" (fire).
Its German name, Glurak, is a combination of "glut" (ember), present in the line's theme naming, and "drache" (dragon) or "rakete" (rocket).
Squirtle is a small, light-blue Pokémon with an appearance similar to a turtle. With its aerodynamic shape and grooved surface, Squirtle's shell helps it wade through the water very quickly. It also offers protection in battle. Like turtles, Squirtle has a shell that covers its body with holes that allow its limbs, tail, and head to be exposed. Unlike a turtle, Squirtle is ordinarily bipedal.
Its shell is highly sturdy, so it can hide within its shell to protect itself from physical attacks. It can also balance on it’s tail.
Squirtle is usually well behaved, yet it has an underlying rebellious streak. It likes to be open with only a limited number of people and won't advertise its secrets. It prefers to stay within a close knit group, but can still enjoy making new friends. Other Pokémon may regard it as difficult and hard to get along with, but only if they have previously gotten on its bad side.
Squirtle evolves into Wartortle starting at level 16 and then evolves into Blastoise starting at level 36.
Squirtle is a starter option in Pokémon Red , Blue , Green , FireRed , LeafGreen , and GO . A Squirtle can also be received as a gift in Yellow .
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl , it is playable as part of Pokémon Trainer 's team and its moves are Hydro Pump , Withdraw , Water Gun and Waterfall .
After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. Powerful sprays foam from its mouth.
Shoots water at prey while in the water. Withdraws into its shell when in danger.
The shell is soft when it is born. It soon becomes so resilient, prodding fingers will bounce off it.
The shell, which hardens soon after it is born, is resilient. If you poke it, your finger will bounce back out.
When it feels threatened, it draws its legs inside its shell and sprays water from its mouth.
Squirtle's shell is not merely used for protection. The shell's rounded shape and the grooves on its surface help minimize resistance in water, enabling this Pokémon to swim at high speeds.
When it retracts its long neck into its shell, it squirts out water with vigorous force.
After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. Powerfully sprays foam from its mouth.
Its shell is not just for protection. Its rounded shape and the grooves on its surface minimize resistance in
It shelters itself in its shell, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity.
The shell, which hardens soon after it is born, is resilient. If you poke it, it will bounce back out.
Shoots water at prey while in water. Withdraws into its shell when in danger.
Squirtle’s shell is not merely used for protection. The shell’s rounded shape and the grooves on its surface help minimize resistance in water, enabling this Pokémon to swim at high speeds.
When it feels threatened, it draws its limbs inside its shell and sprays water from its mouth.
It hides in its shell to protect itself, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity.
After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. It sprays a potent foam from its mouth.
Its shell is soft immediately after it is born. In no time at all, the shell becomes so resilient that a prodding finger will bounce right off it.
Squirtle is a playable character in both Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , as one of the three Pokémon usable by the Pokémon Trainer , with the others being Charizard and Ivysaur .
Squirtle appears to be based on turtles. Its curved tail shape may reference the Minogame , a Japanese legend in which a turtle's tail turned into seaweed after living for ten-thousand years.
Wartortle is a small, bipedal, turtle-like Pokémon with a similar appearance to that of its pre-evolved form, Squirtle. Some differences are that Wartortle have developed sharper and larger claws and teeth, and that their tails are larger and fluffier than those of Squirtle's. The fur on Wartortle's tail darkens with age. Wartortle have developed large furry ears. Like its pre-evolved form , it can also use its shell to protect itself. Its shell bears the scratches of many battles.
They use water to cloak themselves before attacking prey and swiftly swimming after them, using their ears and tails to balance themselves.
Wartortle pride themselves on scratched shells, as they show toughness in battle. Generally, it is believed that the more scratches a Wartortle gains during this stage, the stronger it will be after evolution.
Wartortle is naturally able to shoot water from its mouth at a greater force than its pre-evolved form Squirtle.
Wartortle evolves from Squirtle starting at level 16 and evolves into Blastoise starting at level 36.
Often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For swimming fast, it moves its ears to maintain balance.
When tapped, this Pokémon will pull in its head, but its tail will still stick out a little bit.
It is recognized as a symbol of longevity. If its shell has algae on it, that Wartortle is very old.
It cleverly controls its furry ears and tail to maintain its balance while swimming.
Its long, furry tail is a symbol of longevity, making it quite popular among older people.
Its tail is large and covered with a rich, thick fur. The tail becomes increasingly deeper in color as Wartortle ages. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this Pokémon's toughness as a battler.
This Pokémon is very popular as a pet. Its fur-covered tail is a symbol of its longevity.
It often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For fast swimming, it moves its ears to maintain balance.
Its large tail is covered with rich, thick fur that deepens in color with age. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this Pokémon's toughness in battle.
It is said to live 10,000 years. Its furry tail is popular as a symbol of longevity.
Its tail is large and covered with a rich, thick fur. The tail becomes increasingly deeper in color as Wartortle ages. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this Pokémon’s toughness as a battler.
When tapped on its head, this Pokémon will pull it in, but its tail will stick out a little bit.
Wartortle’s long, furry tail is a symbol of longevity, so this Pokémon is quite popular among older people.
It often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. While swimming quickly, it moves its ears to maintain balance.
Wartortle first appeared in the anime series in the episode Beach Blank-Out Blastoise . During this episode, a large number of Squirtle and Wartortle, along with their leader, a Blastoise, had fallen asleep on an island and could not wake up.
Its design appears to be a stylized turtle. Its curved tail shape may reference the Minogame , a Japanese legend in which a turtle's tail turned into seaweed after living for ten-thousand years. It being able to store oxygen in its tail may reference how some turtle species have the ability to breath through their cloaca, which is located on a turtle's backside.
Wartortle possibly comes from the words warrior , turtle , and tortoise .
It is also the version mascot for Pokémon Blue .
Blastoise's Red & Blue Artwork
Blastoise are large, tortoise-like Pokémon with some features similar to those of its pre-evolved forms. Blastoise has a large blue body, cream-colored stomach, small fat arms and legs, and a large brown shell rimmed with white, featuring its water cannons. It is now noticeably bulkier than its previous evolutions. Like its pre-evolved forms, Blastoise has a shell which covers its entire body, which it can also be withdrawn into. Contrary to Squirtle and Wartortle, Blastoise has large, water cannons that are located on the top left and right sides. The water that comes out of the cannons is capable of punching holes through thick steel.
Blastoise can take the role of a leader in large groups of Squirtle and Wartortle. Its preferred habitat seems to be freshwater ponds and lakes. Blastoise are watchful Pokémon. They dislike humans in their territory, but will not attack unless provoked. They tend to fight when they sense danger.
Blastoise, like Wartortle and Squirtle, can naturally shoot water, though not from its mouth, but from its large cannons. These cannons allow water to be shot at much greater force, which leaves them the backing force of all water attacks. From the spouts on its shell, Blastoise can fire water bullets with amazing accuracy, able to hit a target more than one hundred and sixty feet away.
Blastoise's shell has grown to match its body, and it boasts new extra-large water cannons as well. Dynamax Blastoise can adapt to different situations by using different combinations of its 31 variously sized cannons. In battle, it doesn't bother to aim. Instead, it fires dynamic, powerful torrents from multiple cannons to overwhelm opponents.
The main cannon on the center of Blastoise's shell is staggeringly powerful. Legend says this cannon has blasted holes into mountains. Dynamax Blastoise can also move the 12 large cannons surrounding its central cannon independently, letting it orient its attacks in any direction, whether toward the ground or the sky.
Blastoise evolves from Wartortle starting at level 36 and is the final evolution of Squirtle . Blastoise can Mega Evolve into Mega Blastoise using its Blastoisinite , and can also Gigantamax into Gigantamax Blastoise .
Blastoise first appeared in the Generation I games as the final evolved form of Squirtle. Blastoise is not obtainable in the wild and thus can only be obtained by trading in games where they are not received through events. A Blastoise is owned by Red in Pokémon Gold and Silver , as well as in their remakes . In the remakes, it is level 84, making it the strongest Blastoise to be owned by a foe. Its moveset with Red is Blizzard , Focus Blast , Flash Cannon , and Hydro Cannon .
A brutal Pokémon with pressurized water jets on its shell. They are used for high speed tackles.
Once it takes aim at its enemy, it blasts out water with even more force than a fire hose.
It It deliberately makes itself heavy so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires.
The rocket cannons on its shell fire jets of water capable of punching holes through thick steel.
It firmly plants its feet on the ground before shooting water from the jets on its back.
Blastoise has water spouts that protrude from its shell. The water spouts are very accurate. They can shoot bullets of water with enough accuracy to strike empty cans from a distance of over 160 feet.
It crushes its foe under its heavy body to cause fainting. In a pinch, it will withdraw inside its shell.
The pressurized water jets on this brutal Pokémon's shell are used for high-speed tackles.
The waterspouts that protrude from its shell are highly accurate. Their bullets of water can precisely nail tin cans from a distance of over 160 feet.
The jets of water it spouts from the rocket cannons on its shell can punch through thick steel.
It deliberately makes itself heavy so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires.
Once it takes aim at its enemy, it blasts out water with even more force than a fire hose. Mega Evolution : The cannon on its back is as powerful as a tank gun. Its tough legs and back enable it to withstand the recoil from firing the cannon.
It crushes its foe under its heavy body to cause fainting. In a pinch, it will withdraw inside its shell. Gigantamax : It's not very good at precision shooting. When attacking, it just fires its 31 cannons over and over and over.
The rocket cannons on its shell fire jets of water capable of punching holes through thick steel. Gigantamax : Water fired from this Pokémon's central main cannon has enough power to blast a hole into a mountain.
It deliberately increases its body weight so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires.
It has jet nozzles on its shell. This impressive Pokémon uses these jets to charge toward foes with all the force of a rocket.
Blastoise's design seems to be based on a tortoise and tank . Within East Asian mythology, the Black Turtle of the North, Genbu or Xuanwu, is said to represent the element of water, and its name is directly known as the "Black Military", as the word tortoise in China is something of a pejorative slur against orphans. Blastoise's and even Warturtle's name may be a literal take on being "military turtles of the element of water" in this sense.
Blastoise comes from the words blast (referring to how its cannons blast out water) and tortoise .
Kamex ( Kamekkusu in Romaji) probably mean kame (tortoise) and EX or max .
Concept artwork of Caterpie.
Caterpie is a caterpillar-like Pokémon . Its body is green, with black eyes encircled by yellow markings. It has yellow ring-shaped markings on the sides of each body segment, a yellow underside, and a yellow, teardrop-shaped tail protruding from its rear. Just below its head are four, tiny legs tipped with suction pads that are only used for movement. It also has a red, Y-shaped osmeterium that protrudes from her forehead, which can release a stench to repel predators.
Caterpie are known for their great appetites, usually eating many leaves before creating cocoons to evolve. They use self-made silk to both produce cocoons for evolution.
As weak, soft-bodied Pokémon, Caterpie attempt to gather as much energy as possible to hasten their evolutions into Metapod, and afterwards into Butterfree. However, they are not completely defenseless and do have a few tricks up their sleeves. Firstly, the large eyes on their heads can trick and confuse predators into thinking they are dealing with much larger Pokémon. Secondly, the suction pads on their feet allow them to climb nearly any surface and escape from predators. Additionally, Caterpie can use String Shot to slow down their enemies and buy time for escape. Finally, the antennae on their heads release a very noxious odor when disturbed. These defense mechanisms allow Caterpie to thrive in their native habitats, and combined with the large clutch sizes of Butterfree, make them are one of the most common Pokémon trainers encounter in forests.
Caterpie has the ability Shield Dust , which negates all status effects that are side effects of other moves. When threatened, it can release a strong odor from its antenna, which it uses to ward off predators. A ravenous Caterpie can quickly gobble up leaves that are much bigger than itself.
Caterpie evolves into Metapod starting at level 7 and then evolves into Butterfree starting at level 10.
Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls.
If you touch the feeler on top of its head, it will release a horrible stink to protect itself.
For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antennae on its head to drive away enemies.
Its feet have suction cups designed to stick to any surface. It tenaciously climbs trees to forage.
It crawls into foliage where it camouflages itself among leaves that are the same color as its body.
Caterpie has a voracious appetite. It can devour leaves bigger than its body right before your eyes. From its antenna, this Pokémon releases a terrifically strong odor.
It is covered with a green skin. When it grows, it sheds the skin, covers itself with silk, and becomes a cocoon.
Its voracious appetite compels it to devour leaves bigger than itself without hesitation. It releases a terribly strong odor from its antennae.
It releases a stench from its red antenna to repel enemies. It grows by molting repeatedly.
When attacked by bird Pokémon, it resists by releasing a terrifically strong odor from its antennae, but it often becomes their prey.
It's easy to catch, and it grows quickly, making it one of the top recommendations for novice Pokémon Trainers.
Perhaps because it would like to grow up quickly, it has a voracious appetite, eating a hundred times a day.
Its body is soft and weak. In nature, its perpetual fate is to be seen by others as food.
For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antenna on its head to drive away enemies.
It releases a stench from its red antennae to repel enemies. It grows by molting repeatedly.
Though Caterpie has quite a few cameos, the only time one of the main characters owned one was when Ash had caught a Caterpie in the episode Ash Catches a Pokémon , being the first Pokémon he ever caught. During the same episode, Caterpie evolved into a Metapod . A few episodes later, his Metapod evolved into a Butterfree .
Caterpie is a stylized caterpillar, most resembling an Asian swallowtail . Its "antenna" is an osmeterium , an organ unique to swallowtail caterpillars which, like Caterpie, they use to emit a foul odor. The tip of Caterpie's tail resembles the horn at the rear end of most species of hawk moth larvae .
Caterpie's name appears to be based on caterpillar .
Concept artwork of Butterfree.
Butterfree is an insect-like Pokémon appearing as a large butterfly. Butterfree has a large purple body with light blue limbs and a nose with very small fangs. Its eyes are quite large in proportion to its head and are a red color. Butterfree's large wings simply appear as black and white butterfly wings.
In its Gigantamax form, Bufferfree's body has a larger frame with red glowing eyes. It sports a giant set of wings with glowing teal patterns on them. A fur-like pattern is attached to its wings and back. Its antennae changes from black to light green and, like other dynamaxed Pokémon, are surrounded by red clouds.
The gender difference is the female has purple on the bottom of its wings and the male doesn't have them.
Butterfree consume honey from flowers and are excellent at detecting sources of it. They can trace minutes amounts of pollen back to flower patches, where they then feast on honey and nectar. Using the hairs on their legs, Butterfree are also able to carry the sticky substance back to their nests. They often fly as far as 6 miles (10 kilometers) to find nectar in blooming flowers.
Because of their water-resistant wings, Butterfree can often be found fluttering about in the misty upper levels of rainforests. However, the high moisture is not necessary for their survival; they are simply highly tolerant of it, so they are also found in drier forests as well, often flying in small swarms to search out locations where honey is abundant. They sometimes compete with Cutiefly for territory.
Regular Butterfree have the ability Compound Eyes which raises its accuracy rating by 30%. Outside of battle, Compound eyes will raise the chances of finding a Pokémon with an item if the user is in the lead slot of the party.
Butterfree befriended within the Dream World have the Tinted Lens ability, which doubles the power of "not very effective" moves.
In battle, it flaps its wings at high speed to release highly toxic dust into the air. Its wings are very helpful in spreading the Poisonpowder and Stun Spore .
Butterfree evolves from Metapod starting at level 10 and is the final evolution of Caterpie . Butterfree can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Butterfree .
Max Raid Battles: Bridge Field , Dappled Grove , East Lake Axewell, Giant's Cap , Hammerlocke Hills , Rolling Fields, South Lake Miloch Gigantamax Raid Battles: Rolling Fields
In battle, it flaps its wings at high speed, releasing highly toxic dust into the air.
Its wings, covered with poisonous powders, repel water. This allows it to fly in the rain.
It collects honey every day. It rubs honey onto the hairs on its legs to carry it back to its nest.
Water-repellent powder on its wings enables it to collect honey, even in the heaviest of rains.
It flits from flower to flower, collecting honey. It can even identify distant flowers in bloom.
Butterfree has a superior ability to search for delicious honey from flowers. It can even search out, extract, and carry honey from flowers that are blooming over six miles from its nest.
The wings are protected by a rain-repellent dust. As a result, this Pokémon can fly about even in rain.
In battle, it flaps its wings at great speed to release highly toxic dust into the air.
It has a superior ability to search for delicious honey from flowers. It can seek, extract, and carry honey from flowers blooming over six miles away.
It loves the honey of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen.
The wings are protected by rain-repellent dust. As a result, this Pokémon can fly about even in rain.
Close examination of its large eyes reveals that each eye is composed of a myriad of tiny eyes.
When attacked by other Pokémon, it defends itself by scattering its poisonous scales and fluttering its wings.
Its wings are covered in toxic scales. If it finds bird Pokémon going after Caterpie, Butterfree sprinkles its scales on them to drive them off.
Nectar from pretty flowers is it favorite food. In fields on flowers, it has heated battles with Cutiefly in territory.
Its wings, covered with poisonous powder, repel water. This allows it to fly in the rain.
Normal Form : In battle, it flaps its wings at great speed to release highly toxic dust into the air. Gigantamax : Crystallized Gigantamax energy makes up this Pokémon's blindingly bright and highly toxic scales.
Normal Form : It collects honey every day. It rubs honey onto the hairs on its legs to carry it back to its nest. Gigantamax : Once it has opponents trapped in a tornado that could blow away a 10-ton truck, it finishes them off with its poisonous scales.
It loves the nectar of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen.
Butterfree vaguely resembles the Aglais io butterfly. However, its wings are white instead of colored.
Its design also appears to be based on the Black-veined White butterfly .
Its Gigantamax form could be based on the Mothra kaiju .
"Butterfree" is a portmanteau of the words "butterfly" and "free" .
Concept artwork of Weedle, showcasing some of its expressions.
Weedle is a small, insect-like Pokémon appearing as a brown caterpillar with large stingers on both its rear and head. Across Weedle's underside are small, pink nubs which it uses to move. On its head, Weedle has two beady, black eyes above a large, pink nose.
The stingers and brightly colored bodies of these Pokémon are intended to ward off potential predators who would not enjoy a mouthful of toxins. Weedle also have a sharp sense of smell, using their nose-like proboscises to sense which leaves are safe to consume. Some Weedle even develop preferences for certain leaves. They are voracious eaters, consuming their weight in leaves daily.
Weedle has the ability Shield Dust , which will block any side effect caused by an opposing attack .
Weedle's sense of smell is excellent. With its large red nose, it can sniff out the leaves it likes best. Eating leaves helps it prepare for evolution.
Weedle has a large stinger on its head. This stinger, according to the Pokédex , measures around two inches and is very toxic. Furthermore, the Pokédex states that Weedle is brightly colored, so as to ward off any and all potential predators.
Weedle evolves into Kakuna starting at level 7 and then evolves into Beedrill starting at level 10.
Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp venomous stinger on its head.
Beware of the sharp stinger on its head. It hides in grass and bushes where it eats leaves.
Its poison stinger is very powerful. Its bright-colored body is intended to warn off its enemies.
It attacks using a two-inch poison barb on its head. It can usually be found under the leaves it eats.
The barb on top of its head secretes a strong poison. It uses this toxic barb to protect itself.
Weedle has an extremely acute sense of smell. It is capable of distinguishing its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes just by sniffing with its big red proboscis nose.
Often found in forests and grasslands. It has a sharp, toxic barb of around two inches on top of its head.
Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp stinger on its head that injects poison.
A Weedle has an extremely acute sense of smell. It distinguishes its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes by sniffing with its big red proboscis nose.
It eats its weight in leaves every day. It fends off attackers with the needle on its head.
Weedle has an extremely acute sense of smell. It is capable of distinguishing its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes just by sniffing with its big red proboscis (nose).
Goh's Weedle.
Weedle first appeared in the episode Challenge of the Samurai , where Ash Ketchum attempted to catch one in the Viridian Forest . Ash was preparing to throw a Poké Ball at this particular Weedle when a trainer distracted him, allowing the Pokémon to escape.
Goh owns a Weedle that he caught in Working My Way Back to Mew! .
Green owns a Weedle, and once offered it to Red in exchange for his Butterfree .
Weedle appears to be based on the larvae of a wasp or hornet . Its red nose and legs resemble spots that appear on the larvae of some species of wasp or hornet.
Weedle may come from worm , wee , and needle or a mispronunciation of weevil .
Biidoru is a combination of ビー bī (bee) and ニードル nīdoru (needle).
Beedrill is an insect-like Pokémon with the appearance of a very large wasp. However, unlike a wasp, Beedrill only has four limbs, with the front-most limbs featuring two large, lance-like stingers. A third stinger is located on its rear end. The shiny version of a Beedrill is a light green color with blue eyes instead of red.
A Mega evolved Beedrill's antennae now resemble the letter 'T', and its eyes become longer and sleeker. It gains a third pair of wings with black markings on top. Its stingers now resemble javelins now, and its only 2 legs were also turned into conical stingers with the same pattern as its abdomen. A similar structure joins its head and thorax and its third stinger has turned pale yellow.
Beedrill is extremely territorial and will attack anyone who gets too close to their hive.
Beedrill has the ability Swarm , which increases any Bug -type attacks by 1.5 if the user's HP drops below 1 3 its max amount. Its hidden ability, Sniper, makes critical hits dealt by it stronger.
According to the Pokédex , Beedrill can fly at great speeds and can attack in swarms. Additionally, its three stingers all secrete a toxic poison, with the stinger on its rear being the most venomous.
Mega Beedril's arms secrete fast acting poison, used to immobilize foes, then finishes them off with its long acting poison from its abdomen.
Beedrill evolves from Kakuna starting at level 10 and is the final evolution of Weedle . Beedrill can Mega Evolve into Mega Beedrill using its Beedrillite .
Beedrill first appeared at the end of Ash Catches a Pokemon where one flies right by Misty's head, and she freaks out and hurries after Ash. Their first feature episode was Challenge of the Samurai , where a number of Beedrill evolved from Kakuna and took Ash Ketchum 's Metapod .
A running gag throughout the course of the series features characters disturbing a Beedrill's hive and then being chased by the swarm of Beedrill.
Ash owned a Beedrill for one episode in The Bug Stops Here . He caught this Pokémon during a Bug-Catching Contest . It was then given to Casey , since she is a fan of yellow-black striped Pokémon. Casey is seen using this Beedrill in the episode Those Darn Electabuzz .
Beedrill is based on different types of stinging insects, namely bees , hornets , or wasps . It most resembles the Asian Giant Hornet . It's arms resembles lances or spears (with the latter being it's Japanese name). The lance-like appearance is also more noticeable in its Mega Evolution. It's Mega Evolution also gains a more mecha-like designs, possibly making it appear like a construction machine given it's yellow, black, and red coloration and the 'drill' part of its English name.
Beedrill is a combination of the words " bee " and " drill ".
Its Japanese name, "Spear", is in reference to its spear-like stingers. By reversing the name without romanization, it is pronounced similar to Apis, the genus of the honey bee .
Artwork of Pidgey for Pokémon Red and Blue
Pidgey resembles a small, plump-bodied bird. It is brown in color, with a cream-colored throat and belly. The tips of its wings share the same color. Both its feet and beak are a pinkish-gray color. Its plumage is fairly nondescript, particularly compared to its evolutions, Pidgeotto and Pidgeot. It has black markings around its eyes and a small crest of brown and cream feathers above its eyes.
It resembles other small flying-type Pokémon, such as Starly , Taillow , and Spearow . However, due to the fact that this Pokémon tend to be unique to a region, with the exception of Spearow, it is likely that they are a result of convergent evolution.
Pidgey are very docile Pokémon that prefer to avoid confrontation with other Pokémon and humans altogether, hiding in tall grass to prevent themselves from being seen. If cornered, though, they will attempt to escape by using Sand Attack to blind foes or Whirlwind to blow them away and buy themselves time to fly away. When hunting, however, Pidgey often use these attacks to stir up their surroundings, exposing vulnerable insects for them to chase down.
These Pokémon have extremely keen senses of direction. They can always find their way back to their nests regardless of how far they have flown. Because of this, Pidgey were commonly used to send messages in the Kanto and Johto regions (much like the Wingull of Hoenn), at least until the advent of e-mail. Many Pidgey have grown accustomed to and now dwell in urban areas due to this practice, flying to forests and fields only to hunt for food before returning to their nests in cities. Some people still train Pidgey to deliver messages as a way of preserving tradition.
When on the ground, Pidgey flaps its wings to kick up sand and dust that blinds its opponents. It has an excellent sense of direction and homing instincts. It can locate its nest even when far removed from familiar surroundings. These skills enable it to be easily trained to deliver messages.
Pidgey are shown to be prey for Pokémon such as Meowth . Their eggs are often the victim of hungry Ekans .
Pidgey evolves into Pidgeotto starting at level 18 and then evolves into Pidgeot starting at level 36.
A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand.
Very docile. If attacked, it will often kick up sand to protect itself rather than fight back.
It usually hides in tall grass. Because it dislikes fighting, it protects itself by kicking up sand.
Common in grassy areas and forests, it is very docile and will chase off enemies by flapping up sand.
It rapidly flaps its wings in the grass, stirring up a dust cloud that drives insect prey out into the open.
Pidgey has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It is capable of unerringly returning home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings.
Pidgey has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It is capable of unerringly return home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings.
Does not like to fight. It hides in tall grass and so on, foraging for food such as small bugs.
A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings and ground level to kick up blinding sand.
It has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It can unerringly return home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings.
It is docile and prefers to avoid conflict. If disturbed, however, it can ferociously strike back.
Goh's Pidgey.
Pidgey often appear in the anime series . They debuted in the first episode, Pokémon - I Choose You! , where Ash had attempted to catch one without Pikachu 's help. He later mistook a Spearow for a Pidgey, which caused a flock of Spearow to chase after him.
Pidgey later appeared as the main Pokémon in Fly Me to the Moon , where Ash and friends find an island of fat Pidgey that could not fly.
Pidgey is based on an Old World sparrow , most likely the Eurasian tree sparrow , a common bird in Japan.
Pidgey may come from the words pigeon and pudgy (something plump and miniature, usually the former).
Concept artwork of Pidgeot.
Pidgeot resembles a large, feathery bird with huge wings. It has a brightly colored crest and tail.
Many trainers are drawn to Pidgeot because of its lovely feathers. The beautiful colors of its crest are particularly striking.
It is easily confused with Pidgeotto because the only difference without a relative size comparison is that Pigeot's tail and crest coloring switch from those of Pidgeotto's.
Pidgeot is even more dangerous than its previous evolutionary stage. This is because it is bulkier and more aggressive than Pidgeotto, enabling it to catch much bigger prey. A favorite target is Magikarp , which Pidgeot can spot from a great distance. Trainers should be very careful when approaching this Pokémon in the wild.
While still territorial, they no longer attack others for simply entering their turfs; rather, they wait and use their keen eyesight to watch from far away, seeing whether their intruders have ill intentions. If they are not endangering the Pokémon or their offspring, they will leave them be. However, they will defeat potential threats without hesitation using their powerful chest muscles to whip up windstorms strong enough to bend tall trees.
When approached, Pidgeot will spread out their wings to intimidate foes. If the tactic fails, they will quickly resort to flapping their wings to create powerful gusts before attacking with their talons. The beautiful, glossy feathers on their heads are symbols of speed in popular culture.
Pidgeot is a powerful flier, capable of creating whirlwinds strong enough to bend trees. At maximum velocity, it can reach speeds of Mach 2 (around 1522.2 mph). Pidgeot can also fly faster than Staraptor if it wants to. With its powerful claws and strength, it can pick up almost any foe.
When Mega Evolved, its muscles are even stronger now, allowing it to fly for two weeks nonstop.
Pidgeot evolves from Pidgeotto starting at level 36 and is the final evolution of Pidgey . Pidgeot can Mega Evolve into Mega Pidgeot using its Pidgeotite .
When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as Magikarp.
This Pokémon flies at Mach 2 speed, seeking prey. Its large talons are feared as wicked weapons.
Its well-developed chest muscles make it strong enough to whip up a gusty windstorm with just a few flaps.
It spreads its beautiful wings wide to frighten its enemies. It can fly at Mach 2 speed.
Its outstanding vision allows it to spot splashing Magikarp, even while flying at 3300 feet.
This Pokémon has a dazzling plumage of beautifully glossy feathers. Many Trainers are captivated by the striking beauty of the feathers on its head, compelling them to choose Pidgeot as their Pokémon.
It spreads its gorgeous wings widely to intimidate enemies. It races through the skies at Mach-2 speed.
This Pokémon has gorgeous, glossy feathers. Many trainers are so captivated by the beautiful feathers on its head that they choose Pidgeot as their Pokémon.
By flapping its wings with all its might, Pidgeot can make a gust of wind capable of bending tall trees.
This Pokémon flies at Mach 2 speed, seeking prey. Its large talons are feared as wicked weapons. Mega Evolution: With its muscular strength now greatly increased, it can fly continuously for two weeks without resting.
It flies over water as it hunts, skimming along the surface to catch Magikarp and other such prey. Mega Evolution : With its muscular strength now greatly increased, it can fly continuously for two weeks without resting.
Pidgeot shares characteristics with birds of prey . Its shiny form is possibly a Golden eagle .
Pidgeot may come from the words pigeon and a corruption of the word jet . It may also take a similar inspiration to its pre-evolution, Pidgeotto, where part of its name could be interpreted as relating to Otto Lilienthal , a German aviation pioneer that studied flight.
Rattata is rat-like, with large incisors, a slight hump on its back towards the rear, a slightly pudgy belly, and a whisker on both sides. Female Rattata have shorter whiskers than the males. The fur of a normal variant is purple, with a white or cream colored underside: the fur of an Alolan variant is black with dark cram underside. Rattata have red eyes, with no obvious pupils. The tail is long, and curled slightly at the tip. Rattata have three-toed paws, which are the same color as its underbelly.
Concept artwork of Alolan Rattata, two of which are alongside an Alolan Raticate boss.
Rattata that live in the Alola region have black fur instead of the usual purple. Their undersides are now a darker beige color and their fur is much scruffier, leaving their whiskers as tufts that resemble a moustache. The inside of their ears is also a dark blue color. Although quadrupedal, it is able to stand on its hind legs.
Rattata's teeth grow very quickly and they can survive almost anywhere. It's happy to nest just about anywhere. They also utilize their teeth so they can use attacks such as Super Fang and Bite . Rattata is always on the alert. Even while asleep, Rattata constantly moves its ears to listen around.
Alolan Rattata are very aware of their surroundings, even changing the way they act in order to evade Yungoos . They are nocturnal and form big nests with an Alolan Raticate leader. They are known to sneak into people's homes and steal food, fresh or spoiled, while returning the food to their dens where it is either stored or given to the Raticate leader of the den.
Rattata evolves into Raticate starting at level 20. Alolan Rattata evolves into Alolan Raticate starting at level 20 during the night.
Trade Rattata in Cerulean City (Alolan Form)
Bites anything when it attacks. Small and very quick, it is a common sight in many places.
Will chew on anything with its fangs. If you see one, it is certain that 40 more live in the area.
It eats everything. Wherever food is available, it will settle down and produce offspring continuously.
Living wherever there is food available, it ceaselessly scavenges for edibles the entire day.
This Pokémon's impressive vitality allows it to live anywhere. It also multiplies very quickly.
Rattata is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly listens by moving its ears around. It is not picky about where it lives - it will make its nest anywhere.
Its fangs are long and very sharp. They grow continuously, so it gnaws on hard things to whittle them down.
A Rattata is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly moves its ears and listens for danger. It will make its nest anywhere.
Cautious in the extreme, its hardy vitality lets it live in any kind of environment.
It searches for food all day. It gnaws on hard objects to wear down its fangs, which grow constantly during its lifetime.
Rattata is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly listens by moving its ears around. It is not picky about where it lives—it will make its nest anywhere.
Normal Form : Its incisors continue growing until its death. If its Trainer doesn’t offer it a file to gnaw on, it will gnaw on door frames, table legs, and so on. Alola Form : With its incisors, it gnaws through doors and infiltrates people’s homes. Then, with a twitch of its whiskers, it steals whatever food it finds.
Normal Form : With their strong capacity for survival, they can live in dirty places without concern. Left unchecked, their numbers multiply rapidly. Alola Form : When the sun goes down, it becomes active. It runs around town on a chase for good food for the boss of its nest—Raticate.
Normal Form : Its incisors grow continuously throughout its life. If its incisors get too long, this Pokémon becomes unable to eat, and it starves to death. Alola Form : It has an incredibly greedy personality. Its nest is filled with so much food gathered by Rattata at its direction, it can’t possibly eat it all.
Normal Form : This Pokémon is common but hazzardous. Its sharp incisors can easily cut right through hard wood. Alola Form : Night after night, they sneaks into people's homes seeking food. A massive outbreak of them has become an issue public concern.
Normal Form : Will chew on anything with its fangs. If you see one, you can be certain that 40 more live in the area. Alola Form : Its whiskers provide it with a keen sense of smell, enabling it to pick up the scent of hidden food and locate it instantly.
Normal Form :Will chew on anything with its fangs. If you see one, you can be certain that 40 more live in the area. Alola Form : Its whiskers provide it with a keen sense of smell, enabling it to pick up the scent of hidden food and locate it instantly.
It's cautious in the extreme, and its hardy vitality lets it live in any kind of environment.
Goh's Rattata.
Rattata is based on several species of rodents such as rats and mice. Its large ears resemble those of the dumbo rat.
Alolan Rattata resembles the black rat, brown rat, or Polynesian rat, all of which are invasive rat species in Hawaii. Its relationship with Yungoos references the real life relation of mongooses and rats in Hawaii, as the former were introduced to Hawaii to lessen the latter's population, but ironically caused both species to become invasive. The shape of its whiskers resembles the knot of a hokkamuri, a cloth wrapped around the head and tied under nose as a form of disguise, typically worn by thieves in Japanese media for comedic effect.
Rattata may come from rat and attack . This is more clear in its beta name where a 'k' is placed at the end of its name, making it sound similarly to "Rat Attack" . It may also come from rat-a-tat (an onomatopoeia for a tapping noise), which may reference the noise of a rat scurrying inside walls or gnawing on wood.
Rattata's name includes the words rat and possibly attack , considering its original name was going to be Rattatak. Koratta, the Japanese name, comes from rat and the prefix 小 ko , meaning small .
Concept artwork of Kantonian Raticate.
Compared to Rattata , Raticate is far more of a predator, and the majority of its features are adapted for this purpose. Its most notable feature are its large teeth; like most rodents, Raticate's teeth grow continuously throughout its life, and must be constantly worn down by gnawing. It is also known that Raticate's fangs are tough enough to break through concrete. It has long whiskers and a long tail. Female Raticate have shorter whiskers than the males. Raticate looks like a pudgy rat, just like Rattata. Raticate tends to stand on its hind legs, as opposed to its pre-evolution. Although quadrupedal, it is able to stand on its hind legs.
Concept artwork of Alolan Raticate.
Raticate in Alola have grown black fur to help camouflage themselves due to their nocturnal nature. They now sport a pair of squinted eyes with red irises and a face with large cream-colored cheeks that have four whiskers below them and two pairs of whiskers sprouting out. A patch on their stomach as well as the inside of their ears is a brown.
Raticate remain just as much a nuisance to homeowners, only more aggressive. Luckily, however, they also live in smaller groups, as large groups Rattata generally split into groups of 8 to 10 or so upon evolution. If a Raticate feels threatened, it will stand on its hind legs and let out a shrill shriek, calling its groupmates to join and defend it. The best way to defend against Raticate in the home is to prevent Rattata from invading in the first place before they evolve. Alternatively, Persian and Purugly can also deal with Raticate.
An Alolan Raticate will exert control over a group of Alolan Rattata that it will send out to search for food. Since these Pokémon are primarily urban, they can find calorie-dense foods much more easily; additionally, since these bosses rarely leave their nests, they do not have to burn much energy on hunting or moving. Alolan Raticate can afford to be very picky about their food because they obtain so much of it, stockpiling the bulk of what their underlings bring in their nests. They have highly developed taste buds that help them discern the freshest items. Ironically, this makes them useful to restaurant chefs, who often employ them in places where their cousins would be seen as pests. Alolan Raticate are fiercely territorial against others of their kind, engaging in 'turf wars' where Alolan Rattata groups fight one another for control. Only when all of its underlings have fallen will an Alolan Raticate emerge to fight on its own. Their webbed feet. a trait they share with their mainland relatives, enable them to swim from island to island with surprising ease.
To compensate for its steadily growing teeth, Raticate gnaws on hard things such as buildings, even being able to topple them down when doing so. Also, its webbed feet allow it to swim well when it hunts.
Alolan Raticate live in dens created by Alolan Rattata. They order Rattata to collect food for it, which is stockpiled in the dens. Despite the Rattata's tendency to steal any food, fresh or spoiled, Raticate prefers to eat only the best of the Rattata's stolen goods, usually eating nutrient foods such as Berries .
Raticate evolves from Rattata starting at level 20. Alolan Raticate evolves from Alolan Rattata starting at level 20 during the night.
It uses its whiskers to maintain its balance and will slow down if they are cut off.
Its hind feet are webbed. They act as flippers, so it can swim in rivers and hunt for prey.
Gnaws on anything with its tough fangs. It can even topple concrete buildings by gnawing on them.
Its whiskers help it to maintain balance. Its fangs never stop growing, so it gnaws to pare them down.
The webs on its hind legs enable it to cross rivers. It searches wide areas for food.
Raticate's sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses.
Its rear feet have three toes each. They are webbed, enabling it to swim across rivers.
It uses its whiskers to maintain its balance. It apparently slows down if they are cut off.
A Raticate's sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses.
It whittles its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder walls.
With its long fangs, this surprisingly violent Pokémon can gnaw away even thick concrete with ease.
Raticate’s sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses.
Normal Form : Its hind feet are webbed, so it's a strong swimmer. It can cross rivers and sometimes even oceans. Alolan Form : It forms a group of Rattata, which it assumes command of. Each group has its own territory, and disputes over food happen often.
Normal Form : Its disposition is far more violent than its looks would suggest. Don't let your hand get too close to its face, as it could bite your hand clean off. Alolan Form : This gourmet Pokémon is particular about the taste and freshness of its food. Restaurants where Raticate live have a good reputation.
Normal Form : People say that it fled from its enemies by using its small webbed hind feet to swim from island to island in Alola. Alolan Form : It has an incredibly greedy personality. Its nest is filled with so much food gathered by Rattata at its direction, it can't possibly eat it all.
Normal Form : Its whiskers are essential for maintaining its balance. No matter how friendly you are, it will get angry and bite you touch whiskers. Alolan Form : It commands nest of rattata. Different nests don't get along whipping up severe fights over feeding grounds.
Normal Form : Its hind feet are webbed. They act as flippers, so it can swim in rivers and hunt for prey. Alolan Form : It makes its Rattata underlings gather food for it, dining solely on the most nutritious and delicious fare.
It whittles down its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder block walls.
It seems to be based on the nutria (aka coypu) and the Norwegian brown rat .
Raticate's Alola form resembles the black rat, brown rat, or Polynesian rat, all of which are invasive rat species in Hawaii. Its relationship with Gumshoos references the real-life relation of mongooses and rats in Hawaii, as the former were introduced to Hawaii to lessen the latter's population, but ironically caused both species to become invasive. It also has elements of a mafia crime lord as it is known for hoarding stolen goods and being able to control Rattata and can also parallel with Gumshoos being based on detectives busting criminals.
Raticate's name comes from 'rat' and 'eradicate' or 'masticate' (to gnaw or chew).
Spearow are an avian species of Pokémon characterized by its short stature, brown body, and pale red wings. Its underbelly is beige while possessing a dark brown plumage on its head. Spearow's rear is black and its tail feathers are a shade of brown. Like all birds, it is equipped with talons used for manipulating objects or self-defense.
Spearow prey on insects, and sometimes Sunkern , in grassy areas by flushing them out with their stubby wings, and plucking at them with their beaks. Spearow are very territorial, constantly buzzing about and calling with a loud cry that can be heard from half a mile away. This cry serves to scare away predators and to keep in touch with other Spearow, though the latter is reserved as an alarm to its kind.
They are noted for being frail, for which they make up for with their " Mirror Move " ability.
Eggs laid by Spearow are known to be prey for hungry Ekans , which are known to be able to swallow them whole.
Spearow evolves into Fearow starting at level 20.
Eats bugs in grassy areas. It has to flap its short wings at high speed to stay airborne.
Inept at flying high. However, it can fly around very fast to protect its territory.
It flaps its short wings to flush out insects from tall grass. It then plucks them with its stubby beak.
Very protective of its territory, it flaps its short wings busily to dart around at high speed.
To protect its territory, it flies around ceaselessly, making high-pitched cries.
Spearow has a very loud cry that can be heard over half a mile away. If its high, keening cry is heard echoing all around, it is a sign that they are warning each other of danger.
It busily flits around here and there. Even if it is frail, it can be a tough foe that uses Mirror Move.
Its loud cry can be heard over half a mile away. If its high, keening cry is heard echoing all around, it is a sign that they are warning each other of danger.
It flaps its small wings busily to fly. Using its beak, it searches in grass for prey.
Its short wings make it inept at flying. It moves about hurriedly and pecks at Bug-type Pokémon in the tall grass.
Farmers whose fields are troubled by bug Pokémon appreciate Spearow for it vigorous appetite and look after it.
Its reckless nature leads it to stand up to others—even large Pokémon—if it has to protect its territory.
Due to its short wings, it can’t fly long distances. It wanders about restlessly and pecks at bug Pokémon.
Goh's Spearow.
In the very first episode of the animated series, protagonist Ash Ketchum attempts to capture a Spearow right outside his hometown , without Pikachu 's help; however, he only angers the Pokémon by hurling a pebble at it. Spearow calls out to its large flock, which pursue Ash and Pikachu. Pikachu eventually disperses the flock with a massive lightning attack, upon witnessing Ash's willingness to sacrifice his safety for Pikachu's. Ash deals with the flock once more when he returns to Pallet Town , and realizes that the Fearow leading the flock is the Spearow he had previously tried to capture. The flock reappears in several flashbacks during Ash's journey.
Goh's owns a Spearow that he caught in " Destination: Coronation! ".
Professor Oak had a Spearow in the Pokémon Adventures manga. He used it against Green in their Pokémon League battle. It later evolved into Fearow.
Spearow, though its name implies it is based on sparrows, seems to be more based on a shrike. Shrikes are known for their brutal habit of skewing prey and are also highly territorial, lining up with Spearow's usually aggressive personality.
Its Japanese name, オニスズメ (Onisuzume), is derived from the words Oni (鬼) and Suzume (雀) which means sparrow.
Its English name, Spearow, is derived from the weapon, "spear", and "sparrow".
Fearow is a large, mostly brown bird Pokémon with a vulturine neck and broad, powerful wings. It has a large wingspan, an elongated neck, and a thin, long beak: all characteristics being a radical departure from its short-winged, stubby-beaked, pre-evolved form, Spearow.
Like Spearow, Fearow are very territorial; luckily for travelers, though, they prefer to keep to themselves, only attacking those who draw too near to their nests or young. They use their narrow beaks to dig through soil or reach below the water to catch prey if needed. Because they are known to attack Pokémon often viewed as “cute” and “popular”, such as Pichu, Fearow are often maligned in popular culture as wicked, heartless fighters. However, anyone who has ever raised a Fearow know that while wary and sometimes aggressive to strangers, they can also be very loyal and protective Pokémon; archaeologists have found carvings of them protecting people in Johto.
Fearow uses its great wings to catch air currents and effortlessly glide over large distances for as long as a day without having to land or rest. It flies high into the sky, and swoops down at its prey. By using a combination of its neck and beak, it has a long reach, allowing it to pluck bugs from the ground or easily pluck prey from soil or water as it swoops down. If it senses danger, it avoids it if possible.
Fearow evolves from Spearow starting at level 20.
With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest.
A Pokémon that dates back many years. If it senses danger, it flies high and away, instantly.
It shoots itself suddenly high into the sky, then plummets down in one fell swoop to strike its prey.
It cleverly uses its thin, long beak to pluck and eat small insects that hide under the ground.
It uses its long beak to attack. It has a surprisingly long reach, so it must be treated with caution.
Fearow is recognized by its long neck and elongated beak. They are conveniently shaped for catching prey in soil or water. It deftly moves its long and skinny beak to pluck prey.
Its huge and magnificent wings can keep it aloft in the sky. It can remain flying a whole day without landing.
Its long neck and elongated beak are ideal for catching prey in soil or water. It deftly moves this extended and skinny beak to pluck prey.
It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights using its sharp beak.
It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak.
It's tough and has excellent stamina. It has no problem flying continuously for a whole day carrying a heavy load.
Drawings of a Pokémon resembling Fearow can be seen in murals from deep in ancient history.
Carrying food through Fearow’s territory is dangerous. It will snatch the food away from you in a flash.
In Alola, fish Pokémon are its prey. It can be seen circling above the ocean searching for food.
Fearow appears to be based on several different bird species. Its predatory nature may come from hawks and eagles, though its appearance may be based on vultures. It also dons a red crest which is reminiscent of those seen on roosters.
Fearow may come from the words fear and sparrow .
Its Japanese name, オニドリル (Onidoriru in Romaji), may come from the Japanese words Oni (鬼) and "drill".
Concept artwork of Ekans.
Ekans is a snake-like Pokémon with purple and yellow coloring. Its underside leading to its tail is yellow, and it has a yellow rattle at the tip of its tail. Ekans have large, yellow eyes with slit, reptilian pupils. Across its neck is a large, yellow band.
Ekans, like the (disproven) urban legend surrounding real snakes, have the ability to unhinge their jaws. Ekans also share other characteristics with snakes, such as using its tongue to test the air for the presence of prey and shedding its skin. An Ekans will lose its rattle once it evolves into Arbok .
Ekans often live in tall grassy areas where they slither with great stealth. Ekans is also known to prey on Pokémon such as Pidgey , Spearow , and their eggs. Though often associated as a land Pokémon, they are capable of swimming long distances. When threatened in the wild, it will rattle its tail, flick its tongue to get its surroundings, and might use the move Glare to scare the opponent and have a possible getaway.
Ekans evolves into Arbok starting at level 22.
Moves silently and stealthily. Eats the eggs of birds, such as Pidgey and Spearow, whole.
The older it gets, the longer it grows. At night, it wraps its long body around tree branches to rest.
It can freely detach its jaw to swallow large prey whole. It can become too heavy to move, however.
It always hides in grass. When first born, it has no poison, so its bite is painful, but harmless.
It flutters the tip of its tongue to seek out the scent of prey, then swallows the prey whole.
Ekans curls itself up in a spiral while it rests. Assuming this position allows it to quickly respond to a threat from any direction with a glare from its upraised head.
A very common sight in grassland, etc. It flicks its tongue in and out to sense danger in its surroundings.
Moving silently and stealthily, it eats the eggs of birds, such as Pidgey and Spearow, whole.
An Ekans curls itself up in a spiral while it rests. This position allows it to quickly respond to an enemy from any direction with a threat from its upraised head.
It sneaks through grass without making a sound and strikes unsuspecting prey from behind.
By dislocating its jaw, it can swallow prey larger than itself. After a meal, it curls up and rests.
The eggs of bird Pokémon are its favorite food. It swallows eggs whole, so sometimes an egg gets stuck, and Ekans faints.
It can freely detach its jaw to swallow large prey whole. It can become too heavy to move however.
A very common sight in grasslands and such. It flicks its tongue in and out to sense danger in its surroundings.
As it matures, it grows longer. At night, it wraps its long body around tree branches to rest.
Ekans first appearance in the anime was in the episode " Pokémon Emergency! ", where it was revealed to be Jessie 's Pokémon.
Ekans was widely known for being under the ownership of Jessie, a member of Team Rocket , who had received it as a chūgen gift (changed to a birthday gift in the English dub). It later evolved into an Arbok in the episode Dig Those Diglett! .
A group of wild Ekans, along with a group of wild Koffing , were captured by a poacher named Rico in " A Poached Ego! ". Jessie's Arbok and James's Weezing saved them and then left with them in the wild.
An Ekans with Team Meanies.
An Ekans also appeared in " Team Go-Getters out of the Gate! " as a member of Team Meanies.
Ekans appears to be based on a rattlesnake . It may also be based on an egg eater snake, due to its lack of teeth and penchant for preying on Pidgey eggs.
Ekans comes from the word " snake " spelled backwards.
Concept artwork of Arbok.
Arbok is a purple Pokémon that bears a resemblance to a cobra. Arbok has a "hood" much like a cobra, though it has never been shown to be able to retract it. Arbok has a red, black and yellow pattern on its hood that looks somewhat like an angry face to intimidate other Pokémon. It is known that there are six different patterns on Arbok, each one appearing in a different generation.
This Pokémon is extremely territorial. Arbok are known to be vengeful and are absolutely ruthless in pursuing anyone or thing that angers them. They are also known to hunt smaller Pokémon like Woopers and are capable of slithering to higher places such as trees to do so.
Arbok has the abilities Intimidate and Shed Skin along with the hidden ability Unnerve . Intimidate lowers the opponent's attack stat when the player enters battle while Shed Skin cures Arbok from status ailments at the end of a turn with a 30% chance. Unnerve prevents the opponent from eating its berry. A powerful constrictor, Arbok can crush a steel barrel in its mighty coils.
Arbok evolves from Ekans starting at level 22.
It is rumored that the ferocious warning markings on its belly differ from area to area.
The frightening patterns on its belly have been studied. Six variations have been confirmed.
Transfixing prey with the face-like pattern on its belly, it binds and poisons the frightened victim.
With a very vengeful nature, it won't give up the chase, no matter how far, once it targets its prey.
To intimidate foes, it spreads its chest wide and makes eerie sounds by expelling air from its mouth.
This Pokémon is terrifically strong in order to constrict things with its body. It can even flatten steel oil drums. Once Arbok wraps its body around its foe, escaping its crunching embrace is impossible.
The pattern on its belly appears to be a frightening face. Weak foes will flee just at the sight of the pattern.
This Pokémon has a terrifically strong constricting power. It can even flatten steel oil drums. Once it wraps its body around its foe, escaping is impossible.
The pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes when they are frozen in fear.
The pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes while they are frozen in fear.
The latest research has determined that there are over 20 possible arrangements of the patterns on its stomach.
After stunning its opponents with the pattern on its stomach, it quickly wraps them up in its body and waits for them to stop moving.
The Pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes while they are frozen in fear.
This Pokémon is very tenacious. Once it targets its prey, it won’t give up the chase, no matter how far the prey goes.
Jessie's Arbok.
Jessie from Team Rocket owned an Arbok that first appeared as an Ekans in Pokémon Emergency . It was extremely loyal to her, so much in fact that it evolved into Arbok in Dig Those Diglett . It was her main battling Pokémon and had a strong loving bond with her. Jessie released it in A Poached Ego , along with James's Weezing , to save a group of wild Ekans and Koffing from a poacher.
In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness , Arbok appears as a Shadow Pokémon . When purified, it learns the move Refresh , which it normally cannot learn. However, if its ability is Shed Skin , the ability alone provides almost the same effect as Refresh, making the move less useful. Other Shadow Pokémon that have this ability and can learn Refresh include Starmie .
In , an Arbok appears as a member of the bandit group Team AWD alongside Manectric and Drapion . It also appears in the packaging illustration for Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time , which features members of Team AWD.
In Pokémon Adventures , an Arbok is used by Koga and Agatha . Agatha's Arbok has a special ability to change its abilities by altering the pattern on its belly, and Koga's Arbok can regenerate even if its body is severed, as long as its head remains intact.
Arbok appears to be based on a cobra . It might also partly be based on a boa constrictor and/or anaconda . However, the spots on its body resemble an Indian cobra . It may also be based on a basilisk, a legendary snake-like dragon that was venomous and could kill with its glare .
Arbok comes from spelling the word cobra backwards, but with a 'k' instead of a 'c'.
Pikachu is renowned for being the most well-known and recognizable Pokémon. Over the years, Pikachu has become so popular that it serves as the Pokémon mascot. In the games, Pikachu is the version mascot and first partner Pokémon of Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition and its remake Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! . In the anime, Pikachu appeared regularly as the main travel companion and partner to Ash Ketchum ; while another variant , partners alongside Professor Friede in Pokémon Horizons: The Series .
Pikachu are small, and cute mouse-like Pokémon. They are almost completely covered by yellow fur. They have long yellow ears that are tipped with black. A Pikachu's back has two brown stripes, and its large tail is notable for being shaped like a lightning bolt, yet its brown tip is almost always forgotten. Pikachu have short arms with five tiny fingers on forehands and three sharp fingers on their hind legs. On its cheeks are two red, circle-shaped pouches used for storing its electricity. They turn yellow and spark with electricity when it's about to use an Electric attack , such as Thunderbolt . It has also been known to generate small surges of electrical energy in anger or for protection, like in the anime.
A female Pikachu looks almost exactly the same as a male, with the exception of her tail, which is rounded at the end and has an inward dent, giving it the appearance of a heart. However, in earlier anime episodes, and in the games prior to Generation IV , female and male Pikachu look identical.
As Gigantamax Pikachu, it becomes larger and chubbier (similar to its Generation I design). Its tail becomes longer and stores all of the electricity it generates, causing it to glow a bright yellow and enabling it to become as powerful as a lightning strike. Its power is equal to that a power plant; however, it is difficult to use it in peoples' homes since Pikachu can only remain in its Gigantamax form for a short time.
When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity can cause lightning storms.
A Shiny Pikachu is slightly orange.
In " A Plethora of Pikachu! ", according to Pikala , the fur from Pikachu in the Kanto region sparkles in sunlight, while the Pikachu from Alola fur is silky smooth and shines in sunlight.
Pikachu are usually friendly creatures that love to be cuddled. They love having their tails rubbed, especially at the base; they also like being stroked. However, if threatened or angered, this Pokémon can be quite aggressive. If someone pulls or steps on its tail, it is most likely it will bite or shock anyone in the area, including the one who pulled its tail.
However, in the anime and in the wild of the Kanto region they live in big groups deep in forests and are wary of humans.
In Kanto according to Ash in " Gotta Catch a What?! ", Pikachu also greet one another by shocking them and sometimes they'll gather up in big groups to search for Thunderstones so they can evolve.
The Pikachu that live in the Pikachu Valley in Alola in the anime, greet each other by sniffing one another and rubbing their tails together. Also, they can start duels with one another by sending electrical signals and the winner is decided when the opponent's tail is bitten.
In the first five generations of core games , Pikachu uses electronic sounds like other Pokémon. An exception is Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , where Pikachu is voiced by Ikue Ōtani , the voice actress of Ash's Pikachu . However, from Pokémon X and Pokémon Y until Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Pokémon Shining Pearl , Ōtani continued to portray Pikachu. Until Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , Pikachu was also the only Pokémon to use its cry from until Eevee in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! . Since Pokémon Legends: Arceus , the core games returned to using electronic sounds for Pikachu. Ōtani has sometimes portrayed Pikachu in other games, such as Pokémon Sleep .
Pikachu's special ability is Static , which can cause paralysis in battle if hit by a physical move. In Pokémon Black and White 's Dream World , the Trainer receives a Pikachu with the Lightning Rod ability.
Pikachu are the only Pokémon that get value and can make use of the effects of the Light Ball held item in battle.
Pikachu are capable of learning Volt Tackle , a powerful Electric -type physical move exclusive to the Pikachu family of Pokémon.
Partner Pikachu is also capable to learning special moves: Zippy Zap , Floaty Fall , Splishy Splash , and the Partner Power, Pika Papow .
Pikachu is one of the few Pokémon in Sun and Moon which have a special Z-Move dedicated to them.
The Z-Move Catastropika is Pikachu's signature move. The move is activated by the Z-Crystal , Pikanium Z. Its base is Volt Tackle. Catastropika can be learned only by a Pikachu with Volt Tackle, and becomes unusable if Volt Tackle is forgotten or if the Pikachu evolves into Raichu.
The Z-Move 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt is Ash Pikachu's signature move. The move is activated by the Z-Crystal, Pikashunium Z. Its base is Thunderbolt.
Pikachu, being an Electric -type, is capable of using the Z-Crystal, Electrium Z, to use the Z Move Gigavolt Havoc.
Pikachu is one of the 32 Pokémon in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield that can Gigantamax by having a special member from its species or, with the Isle of Armor Expansion Pass, using Max Soup on a Pikachu. Gigantamax Pikachu can also be obtained from having save data of on the same console, and talking to a certain non-playable character in the Wild Area Train Station .
Gigantamax Pikachu is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max move , G-Max Volt Crash .
Pikachu evolves from Pichu if leveled up with high friendship and evolves into either Raichu if it touches a Thunder Stone or Alolan Raichu if it touches a Thunder Stone in Alola . Pikachu can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Pikachu , and can be found in Cramorant 's Gorging Form.
In the core series , Pikachu appears as a wild Pokémon in all games except Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , Pokémon Black Version and Pokémon White Version , and Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 . Since Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Pikachu can evolve when Pichu levels up at a friendship level, except in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , in which Pichu does not appear.
Pikachu has a low appearance rate in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , but it is one of the few Electric-type Pokémon encountered in the Viridian Forest early on, but only with a 5 percent chance of appearing. Pikachu also appears at the Power Plant that can be accessed from the middle to late stages of the game.
Pikachu is the only available first partner Pokémon in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , and its relationship to the player is directly parallel to the relation between Ash's Pikachu to Ash Ketchum in the anime. Since it is a first partner Pokémon, no Pikachus appear as wild Pokémon , unlike in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , but despite this, the Pikachu that would become the player's first partner Pokémon is encountered by Professor Oak as a wild Pokémon in the tall grass .
There is a minigame named Pikachu's Beach , where the player can use a surfing Pikachu obtained from Pokémon Stadium or a real-life event, but in the Virtual Console release, only the first-partner Pikachu can be used in the minigame. Regardless, the Pikachu used in the minigame can perform flips on a surfboard for points.
Starting with Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , giving Pikachu a Light Ball doubles its Special Attack . In the wild, Pikachu can be found in Route 2 .
From Pokémon Emerald Version , if the player gives a Light Ball to a Pikachu and leaves it at a Pokémon Day Care , they can hatch a Pichu that knows Volt Tackle , a move usable only by members of the Pikachu line.
Starting with Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version , giving Pikachu a Light Ball doubles not only its Special Attack but also its Attack , which makes it stronger than Raichu.
In the Pokéwalker associated with Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , there is a route titled Yellow Forest , which consists entirely of Pikachus, and the promotional artwork shows fourteen Pikachus, one of which is riding balloons in the nearby background.
Pokémon Black Version and Pokémon White Version as well as the sequels Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 are the only core games where wild Pikachu do not appear. Obtaining a Pikachu requires the player to transfer one over from one of the Generation IV titles.
A Pikachu is the first partner Pokémon in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! , and it is different than the Pikachu seen in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition . It is seen riding on the player's shoulder. Pikachu can be customized with different costumes.
In Pokémon Stadium , Pikachu co-stars with Voltorb in the minigame Thundering Dynamo , where they have to charge up electricity to power a generator. The player can obtain a Pikachu who can be taught surf if they complete round 2 of the Prime Cup on Master Ball difficulty.
In Pokémon Battle Revolution , a Pikachu can be obtained and transferred to one of the Generation IV games after the player defeats Mysterial for the first time.
A Pikachu acts as the companion of the player in the Pikachu series of digital pet games, including Hey You, Pikachu! and Pokémon Channel .
At the start of Pokémon Channel , when the TV is brought into the player's house, Pikachu appears at the door of the house along with a Treecko and a Torchic . While the latter two run away, Pikachu enters the house and befriends the player. The Pikachu shows interest in only the TV at first, but it becomes increasingly trustful of the player up to the point where it can be nicknamed. Besides watching TV, the player and his Pikachu can go to some other locations together and have Pikachu interact with other Pokémon.
In Pokémon Pinball , a Pikachu is encountered in the Viridian Forest area of both Red Field and Blue Field , and one also appears in the logo itself. A Pikachu is also part of the Pikachu Kickback feature, which places one at either the left or right Out Lane , and if the ball falls onto the Pikachu, it uses Thunder Jolt to launch it back onto the board. One of the slots is Super Pikachu Kickback, which puts a Pikachu Kickback in each Out Lane.
In Pokémon Pinball: Ruby & Sapphire , there is a Pikachu in the Safari Zone area of Ruby Field , reflecting its only location in Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire Versions . A Pikachu is no longer the only Pokémon in the logo, with a Pichu and the Hoenn first partner Pokémon ( Treecko , Torchic , and Mudkip ) now appearing alongside it.
In Pokémon Puzzle Challenge , a Pikachu is one of the playable Pokémon. One is used by a Gentleman on the Normal difficulty level of Challenge mode. After losing his Pikachu to the player, the Gentleman requests them to take good care of his Pikachu.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team , a Pikachu can be selected as the Hero Pokémon or a Partner Pokémon . Its Friend Area is Energetic Forest (redefined as a Rescue Team Camp titled Vibrant Forest in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX ). Besides this, some wild Pikachus appear in 6F-10F of Lightning Field .
A Pikachu is the playable Pokémon in Pokémon Dash .
In Pokémon Trozei! , four Pikachus are seen being rescued by the Trozei Beamer in a scene of Professor P demonstrating its usage.
A Pikachu serves as the main protagonist of PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure and PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond . In both games, his goal is to save the PokéPark .
In Pokkén Tournament and Pokkén Tournament DX , Pikachu and a Masked Pikachu are both playable fighters. The regular Pikachu is classified with a Battle Style of Standard, and its maximum HP is 570. Its standard moves include Thunderbolt , Nuzzle , Electro Ball , Thunder , Volt Tackle , and Iron Tail . Its Burst Attack is Volt Shock Fist.
Pika and Chuchu.
In the Pokémon Adventures Manga , Red owns a Pikachu named "Pika" and Yellow also owns a Pikachu named "Chuchu".
Pikachu's alternate costumes in Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
Pikachu has also appeared in all Super Smash Bros. series games. Pikachu is a very agile and mobile playable character. In Super Smash Bros. , Pikachu was considered the strongest playable character. In Super Smash Bros. Melee , Pikachu's Skull Bash move was introduced, and its Quick Attack ability was upgraded so that it did a small amount of damage to opponents. Pikachu has also once again appeared in Super Smash Bros. Brawl as a playable character, with its exclusive attack Volt Tackle as its Final Smash. If you look at the hat Pikachu and you look at the shiny above and the hat, you would notice it's the Shiny Pikachu with Red's Japanese hat.
Each of Pikachu's alternate forms in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U can be seen as a tribute to different Pokémon games; The blue goggles come from Pokémon Colosseum and the red hat comes from the Kanto region games while the green headband comes from Pokémon Emerald Version . In the fourth title, one alternate form is that of Calem. Super Smash Bros. Ultimate gives Pikachu its two female alternates, one is based on Moon , and another is the Libre cosplay which is known appearing in Pokken Tournament (DX) .
Along with Mario , Link , and Kirby , Pikachu is a mascot for the Super Smash Bros. series.
Artwork of Pikachu from Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green is one of the usable stamps in Mario Artist: Paint Studio .
Pikachu appears as a Costume Mario costume in Super Mario Maker , obtainable by collecting a Mystery Mushroom . The Pikachu costume is unlocked after the player either scans a Pikachu amiibo or completes the 100 Mario Challenge on Normal difficulty or higher.
Pikachu has charmed fans and given a jolt to opponents for nearly 20 years—whether in the Pokémon TV series, the Pokémon Trading Card Game, or Pokémon video games, Pikachu has always been there as a stalwart companion for any Pokémon Trainer willing to take on the challenge of becoming the very best.
A Super Mario Bros. -based artwork associated with the Mario Pikachu line of merchandise
Pokémon designer Atsuko Nishida stated that Pikachu originally resembled a mochi with ears. Nishida stated that no specific motif was given when she received the commission, and that she designed Pikachu based on the image of a squirrel, despite Pikachu being a mouse. The stripes on the back and the lightning bolt tail were added as details in the appearance, and the black ear tips are the remnant of an earlier design resembling a daifuku, a small Japanese dessert. It is also reminiscent of a viscaha, a rabbit-like rodent that lives in deserts and from the Chinchillidae family.
Its Gigantamax form appears to be based on earlier depictions of Pikachu when it debuted in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Green Version . During this time, its official artwork and sprites depicted it as fatter and rounder, though its Gigantamax form overall uses Pikachu's modern design while using the body shape of its earlier appearance.
The name "Pikachu" was given by designer Atsuko Nishida. According to Ken Sugimori , Nishida, who was commissioned to design an Electric -type Pokémon, came up with the name "Pikachu" at the same time she completed the initial design.
Regarding the name "Pikachu," Nishida explained that she didn't think about it too deeply; "Pika" was included to indicate electricity, but "chu" was chosen simply for its sound and not because it meant "mouse." She also stated that the name "Pikachu" came first, and the mouse concept was developed afterward. Sugimori also stated that the name was decided later when Satoshi Tajiri was writing the character's background. [3] [4]
In a 1999 interview with Time Asia magazine, Tajiri explained that Pikachu's name comes from the sound of an electric spark popping, and the sound of a mouse squeaking. [5]
Raichu is a rodent-like Pokémon, similar to its previous evolution forms. Unlike Pichu or Pikachu , which both have yellow fur, Raichu has orange fur with two strips of brown fur on its back. It has long ears and feet, but has little stubby arms with no noticeable fingers. Additionally, its electrical sacs are yellow, unlike its previous form's red coloring. It has a plump white belly, the tips of its arms and toes are brown. The soles of its feet are tan-colored and the paw pads on the undersides are yellowish orange. Raichu also have a long, thin, black tail that ends in a large lightning bolt shape.
Concept artwork of Alolan Raichu.
Alolan Raichu slightly resembles an Audino . Its tail is now in an oval shape that allows Raichu to stand on it as if it is actually surfing. Alolan Raichu also now has bright blue eyes, darker skin tone, white hands and feet, and yellow ears pointing upwards.
Upon Mega Evolving into Mega Raichu X, Raichu now gains two very thick lengthy tails alongside bulgier nubby arms. Its ears are also greatly altered. It also becomes visually pumped and battle-ready, and is even capable of levitation. Its cheeks also become red much like its pre-evolution Pikachu .
Upon Mega Evolving into Mega Raichu Y, Raichu becomes significantly smaller and gains a second set of ears (or potentially lightning rods), almost identically resembling its pre-evolution Pikachu . Alongside this, its fur becomes more orange much like its Alolan counterpart.
Both Mega forms swap color palates with each other when they are Shiny.
Male Kantonian Raichu have tips on their "lightning bolt tails" while females have flat ends on them.
Unlike their Kantonian counterparts, Alolan Raichu do not sport any visual differences between males and females.
Raichu is more confident, faithful, and powerful than Pikachu, which makes them rivals, but sometimes it is just as friendly and cute. However, if it stores too much electricity in its body, it can become extremely short-tempered and aggressive. Yet, some of them are timid and will run away from people.
Usually, Alolan Raichu are often more playful than their normal counterparts. They use their surfboard-like tails to ride waves and to float in mid-air. When their cheeks are rubbed, they emit both electricity and a sweet-smelling aroma. Locals of the Alola region often states that Raichu got this change from eating lots of fluffy pancakes, which are a common delicacy in the Alola region.
Raichu can generate electricity through its cheeks and electrocute its opponents. The highest amount of electricity it can discharge to take down its foes are 100,000 volts. When or not in battle a Raichu can use its long tail to grab and restrain opponents or hold and carry things seen in " PJ018 " and " PJ036 ". Its tail can also serve as a ground to protect itself from high voltage power.
Being part Psychic-type , Alolan Raichu can also learn Psychic apart from learning Electric type moves. It can discharge star-shaped thunderbolts. Able to control psychic powers, Alolan Raichu gathers psykenosis into its tail and uses it to ride around. When you scrub its cheek pouches, they emit very sweet aroma.
Raichu is the evolved form of Pikachu , and the final evolutionary form of Pichu . Pikachu can evolve into either form of Raichu by the use of a Thunder Stone , but will only evolve into Alolan Raichu in Sun and Moon (and Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon unless it is evolved in Ultra Space ). Before the release of Pokemon Bank for Sun and Moon, the normal form could not be obtained in either games without trading . Raichu can Mega Evolve into either Mega Raichu X using its Raichunite X or Mega Raichu Y using its Raichunite Y .
Raichu made its debut appearance in the episode Electric Shock Showdown , under the ownership of Lt. Surge , the Gym Leader in Vermilion City . In this episode Ash's Pikachu is defeated in a one-on-one battle with Lt. Surge's Raichu , which then leads to Surge commenting on how Ash could never defeat his Raichu because his Pikachu was too weak.
Ash and Pikachu both, refusing to go through with evolving Pikachu in order to increase its power, face off against Lt. Surge again, this time using speed rather than power. By tiring Raichu out, Pikachu defeats Raichu and wins the battle.
A Raichu was among the four Pokémon to bully and harass Ash's Pikachu along with several of Ash's other Pokémon in Pikachu's Vacation , but they later apologized for their obnoxious behavior and helped them free Ash's Charizard , whose head was stuck in a pipe.
Another Raichu, under the ownership of a trainer named Sho , was seen in Pika and Goliath! . Sho's Raichu used Hyper Beam at point blank range on Ash's Pikachu causing it to be in critical condition. This episode was very similar to the previously mentioned Electric Shock Showdown episode.
A different Raichu appeared in The Orange Islands in Stage Fight! under the ownership of one of the performers Kay. When Kay first got Raichu she got scared of being shocked when it discharged electricity when it hugged her as such Raichu got nervous around people. But because of Ash they eventually made up and became a proper team and Raichu started performing with the other show Pokémon.
Another Raichu, named "Sugar" was seen under the ownership of an elderly woman named Abigail in the episode Cooking up a Sweet Story .
In the first episode of the Summer Camp for Pokémon episodes, Ash was given a Raichu to train and battle who was shy but warmed up to Ash, though Ash had to return it after the battle.
Another Raichu, under the ownership of Volkner , the Gym Leader in Sunyshore City first appeared in Flint Sparks the Fire! , he doesn't use in a Gym Battle.
Another Raichu, under the ownership of Tierno first appeared in Good Friends, Great Training! .
Alolan Raichu made its debut appearance in the episode Racing to a Big Event! , under the ownership of Nina .
Another Alolan Raichu, under the ownership of Hau first appeared in Battle Royal 151! , he doesn't use in a Gym Battle.
Physiologically, Raichu resembles the kangaroo rat. Its Pokédex entries of being able to electrocute elephants may reference the documentary by Thomas Edison named Electrocuting an Elephant, in which electricity was tested to kill such animals.
Alolan Raichu might be based on the Surfing Pikachu , but it might also just be based solely on surfing, which was invented in Hawaii. Its design is also similar to when Raichu uses the move Surf in the Pokémon Stadium series, in which it rides on its tail. Also, Alolan Raichu's designer; Atsuko Nishida, stated that the motif of the design was bread, which is possibly why Alolan Raichu is often associated with pancakes in the anime and games.
The name Raichu originates from the Japanese word rai , which means " Thunder ", and "chuu", a word referring to the squeak made by a mouse. Its name is also very similar to the Raiju, a lighting creature from Japanese mythology.
Concept artwork of Kantonian Sandshrew.
Sandshrew has a white belly and a yellow back. Its back resembles bricked pavement or walls. It has a short tail, four short legs and a small head. Sandshrew resembles an armadillo, and can curl into a very tight ball which is about the size of a basketball.
Concept artwork of Alolan Sandshrew.
Alolan Sandshrew, having fled the desert due to frequent eruptions, has adapted to the cold climate of the snowy mountains. This Sandshrew has a white belly and an ice blue back. Its back resembles bricked pavement or walls albeit colored ice blue. It has a short tail, four short legs and a small head. The majority of its ice blue body is clad in steel-hard ice armor, also sporting the ice brick pattern.
Most Sandshrew are timid and they usually run away by digging holes. Despite this nature, they can become braver and more courageous once they're trained by skilled trainers. When their skin becomes wrinkled due to moisture, they head to volcanic areas and dry themselves out through laying on a spot with lots of geothermal heat. They are implied to eat bug types.
When some Sandshrew first arrived at the islands of Alola, they tried to scrape out niches in lowland desert areas. However, such places were plagued with frequent volcanic activity in Alola's past, making them unsuitable for most forms of life. Though Sandshrew are somewhat accustomed to geothermic activity, the frequency of such disturbances was so great that were forced to flee to higher ground.
Today, Alolan Sandshrew inhabit snowy mountains. Their skin has grown thicker and steel-like to help insulate them from the cold; additionally, they are also covered in thin layers of ice. Though this gives them great defensive capabilities, it also hinder their flexibility. Consequently, Alolan Sandshew cannot curl up into balls like their mainland relatives. To move, Alolan Sandshrew slide across slick ice on their bellies like curling stones. A popular competition in Alolan festivals, in fact, is Sandshrew sliding, where contestants try to slide their Pokémon as far down the ice as possible. Alolan Sandshrew also have developed claws that help them cling onto ice without slipping. When attacked, they will hold tight to the slippery ground in order to keep their soft undersides safe from predators. This compact form also keeps them low to the ground and prevents them from being blown about during powerful blizzards. Thier diet is left unspecified.
Sandshrew, when in danger, can curl into a ball to defend itself. They can also claw away sharp rock that impede their digging.
Alolan Sandshrew lack flexibility and cannot curl into a ball but have an excelling natural defense which makes up for this. They also have natural maneuverability on ice.
Sandshrew evolves into Sandslash starting at level 22. Alolan Sandshrew evolves into Alolan Sandslash if it touches an Ice Stone .
Burrows deep underground in arid locations far from water. It only emerges to hunt for food.
Its body is dry. When it gets cold at night, its hide is said to become coated with a fine dew.
If it fell from a great height, this Pokémon could save itself by rolling into a ball and bouncing.
Disliking water, it lives in deep burrows in arid areas. It can roll itself instantly into a ball.
It prefers dry, sandy places because it uses the sand to protect itself when threatened.
Sandshrew's body is configured to absorb water without waste, enabling it to survive in an arid desert. This Pokémon curls up to protect itself from its enemies.
Sandshrew has a very dry hide that is extremely tough. The Pokémon can roll into a ball that repels any attack. At night, it burrows into the desert sand to sleep.
It burrows and lives underground. If threatened, it curls itself up into a ball for protection.
When it curls up in a ball, it can make any attack bounce off harmlessly. Its hide has turned tough and solid as a result of living in the desert.
To protect itself from attackers, it curls up into a ball. It lives in arid regions with minimal rainfall.
It digs deep burrows to live in. When in danger, it rolls up its body to withstand attacks.
Kantonian Form : It can roll its body into a ball. It moves through the desert by rolling at high speeds. Alolan Form : It lives on snowy mountains. Its steel shell is very hard—so much so, it can't roll its body up into a ball.
Kantonian Form : It usually makes its home in deserts and arid zones, where rain does not fall. It digs holes to catch Bug-type Pokémon. Alolan Form : An ancient tradition of Alolan festivals, still carried on to this day, is a competition to slide Sandshrew across ice as far as one can.
Kantonian Form : It lives in areas of limited rainfall. When danger approaches, it curls up into a ball to protect its soft stomach. Alolan Form : After fleeing a volcanic eruption, it ended up moving to an area of snowy mountains. Its ice shell is as hard as steel.
Kantonian Form : When its skin gets wrinkled from moisture, it heads for a volcano. It lies flat on a spot with a lot of geothermal heat and dries itself out. Alolan Form : The skin on its back is as hard as steel. Predators go after its soft belly, so it clings to the ground desperately.
Kantonian Form : Its body is dry. When it gets cold at night, its hide is said to become coated with a fine dew. Alolan Form: : Its ice-covered body lets it slide across the ground with bullet-like speed, sending its enemies flying when it hits them.
Kantonian Form : It loves to bathe in the grit of dry, sandy areas. By sand bathing, the Pokémon rids itself of dirt and moisture clinging to its body. Alolan Form: Life on mountains covered with deep snow has granted this Pokémon a body of ice that's as hard as steel.
Kantonian Form : It burrows into the ground to create its nest. If hard stones impede its tunneling, it uses its sharp claws to shatter them and then carries on digging. Alolan Form : It lives in snowy mountains on southern islands. When a blizzard rolls in, this Pokémon hunkers down in the snow to avoid getting blown away.
No matter how high a place it falls from, this Pokémon can save itself by rolling into a ball and bouncing.
Bold indicates this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. Italic indicates an evolved or alternate form of this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. * indicates this move requires chain breeding. ◊ indicates the father must learn this move in a previous generation. ♈ indicates the father must learn this move via a TM.
Sandshrew made its first major appearance in the episode The Path to the Pokémon League under the ownership of a trainer named A.J. A.J. used brutal methods of training his Pokémon, such as the use of a whip, and was a very strict trainer.
Sandshrew appears to be based on a mouse , a pangolin , and an armadillo . As shown by how it can learn the move Poison Sting , its prey being Bug -type Pokémon (as stated in its Pokémon Moon Pokédex entry), and by its name alone, it may also be based on shrews as they are also able to have venomous bites as well as feast on insects. Its hide pattern also resembles that often associated with Egyptian pyramids.
Its Alolan Forms hide pattern resembles that of an igloo. Its ability to roll up and slide on ice may also reference a curling stone.
Sandshrew comes from " Sand " and " Shrew " which is a reference to their habitat and appearance.
Concept artwork of Kantonian Sandslash.
Sandslash is a tall, yellow, mammalian pangolin/porcupine-like creature with brown quills on its back. It has two very long claws on each "hand" used for digging and battling. Sandslash can curl up to a small size just like its pre-evolved form Sandshrew, but it is of a much larger stature, which enhances its defense.
Concept artwork of Alolan Sandslash.
Alolan Sandslash keeps the traits of its Alolan pre-evolution. It is a tall, ice blue mammalian porcupine-like creature with steel-hard, ice blue crystals on its back. It has two very long claws on each "hand" used for digging paths in the snow. The weight of the ice makes it slower than regular Sandslash.
Sandslash is a resilient creature that lives in desert areas, particularly areas close to dry forests. It is commonly seen either climbing up trees or digging into the dusty ground, both activities which it is suited for thanks to its claws. However, though its claws are strong, they are not indestructible; they occasionally snap when Sandslash digs at an incredibly fast pace. The claws will have started to grow back by the next day, though. The most notable behavior that Sandslash performs to cope with its environment is its method of curling up its body to become in essence a ball covered with large spikes, much like the hedgehog, armadillo, or pangolin. Sandslash rolls up so that the spikes shade its inner body from the sun and therefore prevent heatstroke that can result from the scorching heat that accompanies daytime in the desert.
Sandslash is a fully-armed predator when dealing with other Pokémon in the desert areas that form its natural environment. When attacked, Sandslash rolls up into its spherical guise and its spikes arrange to form its defense, after which the Pokémon will either roll away to escape or roll towards the opponent to attack. When trying to flee in this manner, Sandslash exerts specific force on the ground to kick up small-but-blinding dust clouds in its wake, hoping to discourage other Pokémon from following it. When attacking in this manner, though, Sandslash proves itself adept at making the opponent flinch with the spikes of its rolling body just before uncoiling itself and hacking with its claws. It prefers attacking from higher elevations when targeting prey.
It uses large, hooked claws to cut a path through deep snow as it runs. On snowy mountains, this Sandslash is faster than any other Pokémon. Many people climb snowy mountains, hoping to see the icy spikes of these Pokémon glistening in the light of dawn.
Sandslash evolves from Sandshrew starting at level 22. Alolan Sandslash evolves from Alolan Sandshrew if it touches an Ice Stone .
Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape.
It is skilled at slashing enemies with its claws. If broken, they start to grow back in a day.
In an attempt to hide itself, it will run around at top speed to kick up a blinding dust storm.
If it digs at an incredible pace, it may snap off its spike and claws. They grow back in a day.
Adept at climbing trees, it rolls into a spiny ball, then attacks its enemies from above.
Sandslash's body is covered by tough spikes, which are hardened sections of its hide. Once a year, the old spikes fall out, to be replaced with new spikes that grow out from beneath the old ones.
Sandslash can roll up its body as if it were a ball covered with large spikes. In battle, this Pokémon will try to make the foe flinch by jabbing it with its spines. It then leaps at the stunned foe to tear wildly with its sharp claws.
It is adept at attacking with the spines on its back and its sharp claws while quickly scurrying about.
It curls up in a ball to protect itself from enemy attacks. It also curls up to prevent heatstroke during the daytime when temperatures rise sharply.
It curls up, then rolls into foes with its back. Its sharp spines inflict severe damage.
The spikes on its body are make up of its hardened hide. It rolls up and attacks foes with its spikes.
If it digs at an incredible pace, it may snap off its spikes and claws. They grow back in a day.
Kantonian Form : Although they are sharp, its claws and spikes often break off. They grow back the next day, so it is not bothered by the temporary loss. Alolan Form : Fleeing a volcanic eruption, it settled on a snowy mountain. As it races through the snowfields, it sends up a spray of snow.
Kantonian Form : It uses its claws to climb trees and then curls its body into a spiny ball, ready to drop onto any prey that appears. Alolan Form : This Pokémon's steel spikes are sheathed in ice. Stabs from these spikes cause deep wounds and severe frostbite as well.
Kantonian Form : Its claws and horns often break off. The broken claws and horns can be used to carve plows for tilling farm fields. Alolan Form : It runs across snow-covered plains at high speeds. It developed thick, sharp claws to plow through the snow.
Kantonian Form : Thanks to its thick claws, it’s good at climbing trees. There are plenty of Sandslash that park themselves in trees and go right to sleep. Alolan Form : A long, long time ago, it lived in the desert. With its sharp claws fully extended, it can climb right up an iceberg without slipping.
Kantonian Form : It is skilled at slashing enemies with its claws. If broken, they start to grow back in a day. Alolan Form : This is Sandslash's form after adaptation to a frigid environment. The cold air emitted by its body sharpens its icy spikes.
Kantonian Form : It climbs trees by hooking on with its sharp claws. Sandslash shares the berries it gathers, dropping them down to Sandshrew waiting below the tree. Alolan Form : Many people climb snowy mountains, hoping to see the icy spikes of these Pokémon glistening in the light of dawn.
Kantonian Form :It climbs trees by hooking on with its sharp claws. Sandslash shares the berries it gathers, dropping them down to Sandshrew waiting below the tree. Alolan Form : Many people climb snowy mountains, hoping to see the icy spikes of these Pokémon glistening in the light of dawn.
The spikes on its body are made up of its hardened hide. It rolls up and attacks foes with its spikes.
In the episode Good 'Quil Hunting , a Trainer called Koji told Ash about a place that was good for catching some Cyndaquil . After Ash captured a Cyndaquil, the trainer challenged Ash to a 1-on-1 battle to see who would have the Cyndaquil. Koji used a Sandslash against Cyndaquil and he lost.
Sandslash resembles a mouse , a pangolin , and an armadillo . It could also potentially share traits with a porcupine , hedgehog , and shrew as well. As most early Pokémon were inspired by Kaiju films, it is possible that it may have also been inspired by Anguirus , one of Godzilla's most well known allies.
Alolan Sandslash's claws resemble ice picks or axes, tools used for ice climbing. As Alolan Sandslash is a bipedal blue hedgehog-like creature that can roll into a ball, it may be somewhat based on Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog .
Sandslash may come from the words sand and slash .
Its Japanese name, Sandopan, may come from sand and pangolin .
Clefairy is a small, round, pink, star-shaped Pokémon. Its hands have two white claws and a thumb. Its ears are short and pointy with dark tips. It has a long, curled tail and swirly hair and pink cheeks. On its back, it has small wings.
Clefairy are very timid and rarely appears in front of humans. But they are also very clever, and there are awareness among social and religious groups. Clefairy is a nocturnal Pokémon, and sometimes one will come out during the full moon to dance.
Clefairy can jump very high, as seen in the anime, and can hear very well. This is often the reason why they are hard to find. A Clefairy collects moonlight in its wings and uses it to fly.
Clefairy evolves from Cleffa if leveled up with high friendship and evolves into Clefable if it touches a Moon Stone .
Its magical and cute appeal has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas.
Adored for their cute looks and playfulness. They are thought to be rare, as they do not appear often.
The moonlight that it stores in the wings on its back apparently gives it the ability to float in midair.
Its adorable behavior and cry make it highly popular. However, this cute Pokémon is rarely found.
Though rarely seen, it becomes easier to spot, for some reason, on the night of a full moon.
On every night of a full moon, groups of this Pokémon come out to play. When dawn arrives, the tired Clefairy return to their quiet mountain retreats and go to sleep nestled up against each other.
Its adorable appearance makes it popular as a pet. However, it is rare and difficult to find.
With its magical and cute appeal, it has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas.
On every night of a full moon, they come out to play. When dawn arrives, the tired Clefairy go to sleep nestled up against each other in deep and quiet mountains.
Thought to live with others on quiet mountains, it is popular for its adorable nature.
It flies using the wings on its back to collect moonlight. This Pokémon is difficult to find.
Clefairy gather on nights of a full moon to dance, and if you watch them it is said you will find happiness.
It is said that happiness will come to those who see a gathering of Clefairy dancing under a full moon.
On nights with a full moon, Clefairy gather from all over and dance. Bathing in moonlight makes them float.
Its adorable behavior and appearance make it popular with men and women, young and old. Its numbers are few, however.
On nights with a full moon, they gather together and dance. The surrounding area is enveloped in an abnormal magnetic field.
They’re popular, but they’re rare. Trainers who show them off recklessly may be targeted by thieves.
Bathed in moonlight, its wings glow faintly. Without even flapping, Clefairy rises into the air, where it dances around.
Moonlight gathers on the wings on Clefairy’s back, allowing Clefairy to fly. This Pokémon is difficult to find.
It can be found in quiet mountain areas on a full moon’s night. Its dancing and its tiny, faintly glowing wings confer upon it a lovely fairylike quality.
Clefairy appeared in Super Smash Bros. and Super Smash Bros. Melee , where it would be released out of a Poké Ball .
The firsts are appeared in " Clefairy and the Moon Stone ".
A group of Clefairy tried to fly to the moon in a space ship they built on Mt. Moon (" Clefairy Tales "). Ash battled Whitney's Clefairy in " A Goldenrod Opportunity ". The Clefairy are back with a space ship in " Wish Upon a Star Shape ".
Clefairy appears to be based on fairies , which are often depicted as small, cute, magical, winged creatures in media. It may also be based on stars due to its shape, and to a lesser extent, may be based on aliens , seeing how it and its other stages are implied to come from the Moon.
The name is derived from clef (French for 'key', as in a 'musical key') and fairy .
Clefable resembles a larger Clefairy , with bigger ears and tail, larger wings, and no claws on its hands.
Clefable is shyer than Clefairy. Due to its highly sensitive hearing, a Clefable will avoid noisy areas and prefers dwelling in secluded mountains. On moonlit nights, groups of Clefable can rarely be seen walking towards secluded, deserted lakes; they are said to gaze at the moon in longing to return home, straining their ears to hear the voices of their brethren on its surface. It is said seeing a pair of them is a sign of a happy marriage.
A Clefable can easily hear a pin being dropped nearly 1,100 yards away, due to its acute hearing.
Clefable evolves from Clefairy if it touches a Moon Stone and is the final evolution of Cleffa . Clefable can Mega Evolve into Mega Clefable using its Clefablite .
A timid fairy Pokémon that is rarely seen. It will run and hide the moment it senses people.
They appear to be very protective of their own world. It is a kind of fairy, rarely seen by people.
With its acute hearing, it can pick up sounds from far away. It usually hides in quiet places.
Its very sensitive ears let it distinguish distant sounds. As a result, it prefers quiet places.
Said to live in quiet, remote mountains, this type of fairy has a strong aversion to being seen.
Clefable moves by skipping lightly as if it were flying using its wings. Its bouncy step lets it even walk on water. It is known to take strolls on lakes on quiet, moonlit nights.
It has an acute sense of hearing. It can easily hear a pin being dropped nearly 1,100 yards away.
A timid fairy Pokémon that is rarely seen, it will run and hide the moment it senses people.
A Clefable uses its wings to skip lightly as if it were flying. Its bouncy step lets it even walk on water. On quiet, moonlit nights, it strolls on lakes.
Rarely seen by people, it is said to be drawn by the full moon to play at deserted lakes.
Its hearing is so acute it can hear a pin drop over a half a mile away. It lives on quiet mountains.
It is very wary and rarely shows itself to people. Its ears can hear a pin drop over half a mile away.
Their ears are sensitive enough to head a pin drop from over a mile away, so they're usually found in quiet places.
Its hearing is so acute it can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. It lives on quiet mountains.
They don't like to reveal themselves in front of people. They live quietly in packs deep in the mountains.
According to tradition, people who see a pair of Clefable skipping by can look forward to a happy marriage.
It can’t help but hear a pin drop from over half a mile away, so it lives deep in the mountains where there aren’t many people or Pokémon.
Some scientists believe that it gazes intently at the sky on nights with a full moon because it’s homesick.
Their ears are sensitive enough to hear a pin drop from over a mile away, so they're usually found in quiet places.
Legend says that on clear, quiet nights, it listens for the voices of its kin living on the moon. I, too, often think of my homeland, so far away.
A timid fairy Pokémon that is rarely seen, it will run and hide the moment it senses people. Mega Evolution : It flies by using the power of moonlight to control gravity within a radius of over 32 feet around it.
Clefable appears in " Clefairy and the Moon Stone " where multiple Clefairy evolved via Moon Stones . A Clefable also appeared in " Stage Fight! ". Finally, a Clefable appears in " A Real Cleffa Hanger " in a Mt. Moon contest.
Clefable is based on fairies , as they are creatures known to be playful, usually don wings, and have magical abilities. It may also be based on stars due to its shape, and to a lesser extent, may be based on aliens seeing how it and its previous stages are implied to come from the Moon.
Clefable comes from "clef" and "fable".
Its Japanese name, Pixy , is a misspelling of pixie .
Concept artwork of Vulpix.
Vulpix are fox-like Pokémon with reddish-brown fur. Vulpix's most distinctive feature is its six orange tails that are curled at the tips. According to the Pokédex , when it is born, Vulpix possesses one snow white tail that eventually splits into many tails as it grows older. On the top of its head, Vulpix has a tuft of bright orange fur that curls into three rolls at the top and falls over its forehead at the bottom. Its underbelly is cream-colored and slightly plump. Additionally, a shiny Vulpix has a golden color scheme as opposed to its original red-brown. Also, Vulpix do not have any differences in appearance between genders.
Concept artwork of Alolan Vulpix.
Alolan Vulpix, having moved to the snowy mountains to avoid other Pokémon habitats, has adapted to the cold climate. It is a fox-like Pokémon with snow white fur and ice blue paws. Alolan Vulpix's most distinctive feature is its snow white body and its six ice blue tails which are connected by a tuft of snow white fur. On the top of its head, Alolan Vulpix has a tuft of snow white fur which curls back and falls over its forehead at the bottom. A shiny Alolan Vulpix's color scheme is more inclined to purple instead of blue.
Vulpix are very intelligent. When they face a stronger enemy, they'll distract the enemy by feigning injury and then escape. Vulpix is capable of manipulating fire to such precision as to create floating wisps of flame. These wisps are sometimes mistaken for ghosts by humans, but Vulpix uses them to assist in catching prey. When the temperature outside increases, it will expel flames from its mouth to prevent its body from overheating.
Alolan Vulpix, which live on cold mountains, usually form a group varying from 2-5 members, helping and living with one another. They can be found in small packs, called skulks, that are led and protected by Ninetales. Alolan Vulpix is believed to have arrived in the region at the same time as humans but moved to the snow-capped mountain to avoid other Pokémon. Alolan Vulpix can expel breath as cold as -58°F (-50°C), which is capable of freezing anything as a means to protect themselves from enemies. While they are not suited to warmer environments, their tails can produce ice to lower the surrounding temperature if needed. An old, local name for this Pokémon is "Keokeo", referring to their white pelt. Weavile is a natural predator of Alolan Vulpix.
Vulpix have a flame inside their body that never goes out.
Alolan Vulpix, however, can freeze anything with its breath of −58 °F and do not fare well in the heat.
Vulpix evolves into Ninetales if it touches a Fire Stone , while Alolan Vulpix evolves into Alolan Ninetales if it touches an Ice Stone .
At the time of birth, it has just one tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older.
Both its fur and its tails are beautiful. As it grows, the tails split and form more tails.
As it develops, its single white tail gains color and splits into six. It is quite warm and cuddly.
If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger than itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes.
As its body grows larger, its six warm tails become more beautiful, with a more luxurious coat of fur.
At the time of its birth, Vulpix has one white tail. The tail separates into six if this Pokémon receives plenty of love from its Trainer. The six tails become magnificently curled.
Inside Vulpix's body burns a flame that never goes out. During the daytime, when the temperatures rise, this Pokémon releases flames from its mouth to prevent its body from growing too hot.
While young, it has six gorgeous tails. When it grows, several new tails are sprouted.
When it is born, it has just one snow-white tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older.
It can freely control fire, making fiery orbs fly like will-o'-the-wisps. Just before evolution, its six tails grow hot as if on fire.
It controls balls of fire. As it grows, its six tails split from their tips to make more tails.
If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger then itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes.
As each tail grows, its fur becomes more lustrous. When held, it feels slightly warm.
Kantonian Form : Its beautiful fur and tails have made it very popular. As it grows, its tails split to form more tails. Alolan Form : It exhales air colder than -58 degrees Fahrenheit. Elderly people in Alola call this Pokémon by an older name—Keokeo.
Kantonian Form : From its mouth spew flames that seem to resemble the spirits of the deceased. Some people mistakenly think this fire is a ghost. Alolan Form : In hot weather, this Pokémon makes ice shards with its six tails and sprays them around to cool itself off.
Kantonian Form : Its beautiful tails have made it very popular. However, if it’s not brushed diligently, it will be a mass of tangles before you know it. Alolan Form : If you carelessly approach it because it’s cute, the boss of the pack, Ninetales, will appear and freeze you.
Kantonian Form : It manipulates balls of fire to catch its prey. If you raise one from when it’s young, it will grow close to you like a puppy Pokémon. Alolan Form : They live together in a skulk, helping one another. Before eating their prey, they freeze it solid with their –58 degree Fahrenheit breath.
Kantonian Form: Both its fur and its tails are beautiful. As it grows, the tails split and form more tails. Alolan Form: It looks like snow come to life, and the breath it exhales is –58 degrees Fahrenheit. Another name for it is Keokeo.
Kantonian form : While young, it has six gorgeous tails. When it grows, several new tails are sprouted. Alolan form : After long years in the ever-snowcapped mountains of Alola, this Vulpix has gained power over ice.
Kantonian form : As each tail grows, its fur becomes more lustrous. When held, it feels slightly warm. Alolan form : If you observe its curly hairs through a microscope, you'll see small ice particles springing up.
Kantonian Form: In its belly burns a fire, which Vulpix spits out in the form of fireballs. When young, this Pokémon has but one white tail. As the Pokémon matures, this single tail splits into six. Alolan Form: These Pokémon live in packs in the snowy mountains and defend themselves with icy breath. I suspect this species changed its form to adapt to the frigid climate.
Kantonian Form: If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger than itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes. Alolan Form: As its body grows larger, its six warm tails become more beautiful, with a more luxurious coat of fur.
Kantonian Form: As its body grows larger, its six warm tails become more beautiful, with a more luxurious coat of fur. Alolan Form: In hot weather, this Pokémon makes ice shards with its six tails and sprays them around to cool itself off.
Vulpix is based on a fox , more specifically the kitsune of Japanese folklore. One such legend which is most relevant to Vulpix is how multi-tailed kitsune can breathe fire , create illusions, and have extremely long lives. After having concluded their life cycle, these creatures take on a spirit form, which may have been the reason why Vulpix and Ninetales can learn Psychic -type and Ghost -type moves. Since many kitsune are able to transform themselves into women to trick men, this explains why the Vulpix evolution family is predominantly female.
Alolan Vulpix is based on an Arctic fox , a species of fox that lives in icy tundras and grows a thick white coat during the winter. The tuft of fur on its head and its tail greatly resemble snow clouds and wisps.
Vulpix's name is a combination of Vulpes , Latin for fox, and six, referring to its six tails. The "ix" in its name may also allude to Vulpix's evolution into Ninetales, as IX is the roman numeral for the number nine, the amount of tails Ninetales has.
The "rok" in Rokon may be derived from roku, six; the kon may be derived from 'grudge' which refers to the curse that Vulpix and Ninetales may cast on their foes. This is also reflected in Vulpix, which learns Grudge. Kon may also refer to the Japanese onomatopoeia "kon kon" which is the sound that foxes make. Furthermore, a konko is a gas burner stove.
Concept artwork of Ninetales.
Ninetales is a fox-like Pokémon that possesses nine tails, hence its name. Resembling the nine-tailed kitsune fox of Japanese folklore, they are mainly covered in sleek, luxurious golden-white fur, while the tips of their nine tails are orange. On top of their head is a large tuft of hair, similar to its pre-evolved form though much more unruly and spiky. It has sinister red eyes which give it the ability to psychically control the minds of people and Pokémon. Its ears are pointed and distinctly fox-like, and it has slender legs with three-toed paws and no visible claws. The shiny version of Ninetales has silver-gray fur instead of its usual light cream fur, and its tails are tipped in blue.
Concept artwork of Alolan Ninetales.
Alolan Ninetales keeps the traits of Alolan Vulpix. It is a fox-like Pokémon that possesses nine tails, hence its name. It is covered in ice blue fur with snow white legs. On top of its head is a large tuft of hair, similar to its pre-evolved form. This tuft does not curl backwards and instead shrinks backwards into two snow white "ribbons" of hair. It possesses two tufts like this (which shrink into only one "ribbon") on both sides of its ears. Its nine tails are ice blue and also shrink into one snow white ribbon each. Unlike regular Ninetales, these tails form a circle behind the Pokémon. It has majestic blue eyes not unlike those of its pre-evolution. Its ears are pointed and distinctly fox-like, and it has slender legs with three-toed paws and no visible claws.
Ninetales have high intelligence and strong obsession. They can live for a thousand years when they use the power of their tails. They never let go of their vendetta against ones they have a grudge on, including the person's descendants.
Alolan Ninetales are very gentle, and they will help people who are in danger. Nonetheless, they won't show mercy to anyone who intrudes their territory. It will punish any threat to its pack of Vulpix. Alolan Ninetales resides on the mountains where it is revered as a deity. It is constantly cloaked in a massive snowstorm.
Ninetales' tails contain different mysterious powers. They can control wisps and flames through mystical forces, as well as hypnotizing victims and prey through flickering flames emitted from their mouths. They can even release odd beams from their red eyes to manipulate a person's heart and mind at their own whims.
Alolan Ninetales can produce multipurpose ice crystals from its fur, which it can use for both offense and defense. The ice crystals can act as a shield or form balls that can be fired like bullets with enough force to shatter rock.
Ninetales evolves from Vulpix if it touches a Fire Stone , while Alolan Ninetales evolves from Alolan Vulpix if it touches an Ice Stone .
Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1000-year curse.
According to an enduring legend, 9 noble saints were united and reincarnated as this Pokémon.
Some legends claim that each of its nine tails has its own unique type of special mystic power.
Its nine beautiful tails are filled with a wondrous energy that could keep it alive for 1,000 years.
It is said to live a thousand years, and each of its tails is loaded with supernatural powers.
Ninetales casts a sinister light from its bright red eyes to gain total control over its foe's mind. This Pokémon is said to live for a thousand years.
Legend has it that Ninetales came into being when nine wizards possessing sacred powers merged into one. This Pokémon is highly intelligent - it can understand human speech.
It has nine long tails and fur that gleams gold. It is said to live for 1,000 years.
It has long been said that each of the nine tails embody an enchanted power. A long-lived Ninetales will have fur that shines like gold.
Its nine tails are said to be imbued with a mystic power. It can live for a thousand years.
Each of its nine tails is imbued with a supernatural power, and it can live for a thousand years.
Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1,000-year curse.
Kantonian Form : Legend has it that this mystical Pokémon was formed when nine saints coalesced into one. Alolan Form : It creates drops of ice in its coat and showers them over its enemies. Anyone who angers it will be frozen stiff in an instant.
Kantonian Form : Said to live for a thousand years, this Pokémon uses its supernatural abilities to manipulate fire. It can burn its prey to a crisp as it pleases. Alolan Form : Possessing a calm demeanor, this Pokémon was revered as a deity incarnate before it was identified as a regional variant of Ninetales.
Kantonian Form : It is vindictive and relentless by nature. Those who cross it even once will be cursed for a thousand years, along with their descendants. Alolan Form : The reason it guides people all the way down to the mountain’s base is that it wants them to hurry up and leave.
Kantonian Form : The flickering flames it spews from its mouth leave its opponents hypnotized. Then, this extremely intelligent Pokémon attacks. Alolan Form : Some said that deities visited mountains where Ninetales live, so in times long past, no one was allowed to go into those mountains.
Kantonian Form: According to an enduring legend, nine noble saints were united and reincarnated as this Pokémon. Alolan Form: It lives on mountains perpetually covered in snow and is revered as a deity incarnate. It appears draped in a blizzard.
Kantonian Form : It is said to live 1,000 years, and each of its tails is loaded with supernatural powers. Alolan Form : A deity resides in the snowy mountains where this Pokémon lives. In ancient times, it was worshiped as that deity's incarnation.
Kantonian Form : Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1,000-year curse. Alolan Form : While it will guide travelers who get lost on a snowy mountain down to the mountain's base, it won't forgive anyone who harms nature.
Its nine tails are said to be imbued with a mystic power. The Pokémon is said to live for 1,000 years.
Kantonian Form: The coat of gleaming golden fur is quite magnificent. This species is said to store sacred power in its nine long tails and to live for a millennium. Alolan Form: Dwells on sacred peaks perpetually covered in snow. Said to appear to virtuous people who have lost their way on mountain paths—it then guides them back down to the mountain's base.
Kantonian Form : Some legends claim that each of its nine tails has its own unique type of special mystical power. Alolan Form : Possessing a calm demeanor, this Pokémon was revered as a deity incarnate before it was identified as a regional variant of Ninetales.
Kantonian Form : It has nine long tails and fur that gleams gold. It is said to live for 1,000 years. Alolan Form : It creates drops of ice in its coat and showers them over its enemies. Anyone who angers it will be frozen stiff in an instant.
Ninetales first appeared in anime under the ownership of Blaine in Riddle Me This who fought Ash's Squirtle and defeated it. Originally, however, Ninetales' first appearance in the anime was the Electric Soldier Porygon , which was a banned episode.
Another appeared under the ownership of Zane.
Ninetales is based on a fox , more specifically kyūbikitsune , the mystical nine-tailed fox (九尾の狐) of Japanese folklore. One such legend which is most relevant to Vulpix is how multi-tailed kitsune can breathe fire , create illusions, and have extremely long lives. After having concluded their life cycle, these creatures take on a spirit form, which may have been the reason why Vulpix and Ninetales can learn Psychic -type and Ghost -type moves. When a kitsune gains its ninth tail, its fur changes from the dark red of a fox to white or golden, hence the color change for the evolution. Since many kitsune are able to transform themselves into women to trick men, this explains why the Ninetales evolution family is predominantly female.
Alolan Vulpix is based on an Arctic fox , a species of fox that lives in icy tundras and grows a thick white coat during the winter. The tuft of fur on its head and its tail greatly resemble snow clouds and wisps. It being Ice / Fairy -type may be in reference to Cirno, a fairy character from the Touhou video game series with ice powers who is often associated with the number nine.
Ninetales is basically "Nine tails" and "tales" (based on the many legends surrounding this Pokémon).
Kyūkon comes from 九 (kyū, "nine" in Japanese) and コン (kon, onomatopoeia for a fox's bark). Kon is also the Japanese word for curse.
Jigglypuff is a small round pink Pokémon with a tuft of curly fur on its head. It has short, digitless limbs, pointy catlike ears, and large blue eyes.
Jigglypuff can lull people and Pokémon to sleep using its voice.
Jigglypuff has very stretchy skin and will inflate itself if it gets angry. In the anime, it has been shown to draw on people's faces after they have fallen asleep. However, most Jigglypuff are not accustomed to Pokémon with abilities like Insomnia, which prevent drowsiness. They will sing endlessly to try to put such Pokémon to sleep, putting themselves in danger of asphyxiation. Luckily, this behavior is generally a one-time mistake, and a Jigglypuff will quickly learn its lesson. Recently, it was discovered that different populations of Jigglypuff utilize different methods of singing, ranging from lilting melodies to near-shouts.
Jigglypuff evolves from Igglybuff if leveled up with high friendship and evolves into Wigglytuff if it touches a Moon Stone .
When its huge eyes light up, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep.
Uses its alluring eyes to enrapture its foe. It then sings a pleasing melody that lulls the foe to sleep.
If it inflates to Sing a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience.
Looking into its cute, round eyes causes it to sing a relaxing melody, inducing its enemies to sleep.
It rolls its cute eyes as it sings a soothing lullaby. Its gentle song puts anyone who hears it to sleep.
Jigglypuff's vocal chords can freely adjust the wavelength of its voice. This Pokémon uses this ability to sing at precisely the right wavelength to make its foes most drowsy.
When this Pokémon sings, it never pauses to breathe. If it is in a battle against an opponent that does not easily fall asleep, Jigglypuff cannot breathe, endangering its life.
It captivates foes with its huge, round eyes, then lulls them to sleep by singing a soothing melody.
When its huge eyes waver, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep.
Nothing can avoid falling asleep hearing a Jigglypuff's song. The sound waves of its singing voice match the brain waves of someone in a deep sleep.
When it wavers its big, round eyes, it begins singing a lullaby that makes everyone drowsy.
Looking into its cute, round eyes makes it start singing a song so pleasant listeners can't help but fall asleep.
If it inflates to sing a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience.
Jigglypuff's vocal cords can freely adjust the wavelength of its voice. This Pokémon uses this ability to sing at precisely the right wavelength to make its foes most drowsy.
It hugely inflates its stomach and sings a mysterious melody. If you hear this melody, you'll become sleepy right away.
Jigglypuff possess a vocal range that exceeds 12 octaves, but each individual's singing skill depends on its own effort.
Recordings of Jigglypuff’s strange lullabies can be purchased from department stores. These CDs can be found near the bedding area.
The songs they sing are totally different depending on the region they live in. Some even sound like they’re shouting.
Uses its cute round eyes to enrapture its foe. It then sings a pleasing melody that lulls the foe to sleep.
Jigglypuff has top-notch lung capacity, even by comparison to other Pokémon. It won't stop singing its lullabies until its foes fall asleep.
By freely changing the wavelength of its voice, Jigglypuff sings a mysterious melody sure to make any listener sleepy.
Looking into its cute, round eyes prompts it to start singing a song so pleasant that listeners can't help but fall asleep.
In the Pokémon anime series, Jigglypuff is a recurring character who aspires to be a great singer after the inspiration of Ash Ketchum and company. Unfortunately, every potential audience falls asleep before the song finishes. Jigglypuff does not usually choose an appropriate time to sing and has been a hazard many times, especially on moving vehicles. Because of this, Ash Ketchum and his companions often find themselves running away from Jigglypuff, who obviously isn't pleased with the fact that everyone falls asleep whenever it sings. It keeps with it a black marker, its "microphone", and uses it to scribble on the faces of anyone who dares to fall asleep while it's performing (after it inflates itself in anger with a distinctive "honk" sound).
Another Jigglypuff (In the episode Rough, Tough, Jigglypuff) had a Loudred (Whismur's evolved form and therefore also bearing the "soundproof" ability) listen to its song, but it didn't care as this Jigglypuff was using Sing for an attack.
A jumbo Jigglypuff appeared in The Ancient Puzzle of Pokémopolis . It lulled the giant Gengar and the giant Alakazam to sleep, angering the Jigglypuff before it drew on their faces.
Jigglypuff briefly appears singing in the Hi-Hat Café .
A Jigglypuff appears as a playable fighter in every Super Smash Bros. series installment, having debuted in Super Smash Bros. for the Nintendo 64 .
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U , Jigglypuff's Final Smash is called Puff Up . This move doesn't exist in the Pokémon World, just like Lucario 's Aura Storm . However, a similar mechanic ( Dynamax ) was introduced in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield .
Artwork of Jigglypuff from Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green can be used as a stamp in Mario Artist: Paint Studio .
Jigglypuff appears as one of the Costume Mario costumes in Super Mario Maker , which can be unlocked either by using the Jigglypuff amiibo or by clearing 100 Mario Challenge on Normal difficulty or greater. Its sprite is based upon the overworld sprite used in the Nintendo DS Pokémon games. Like the other Pokémon costumes, Jigglypuff does not have any altered sound effects.
Jigglypuff in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y .
Jigglypuff appears to be based on a balloon . It also shares some traits with Kirby. Both are small, round, pink, and have soft bodies and blue eyes. Jigglypuff could also be based on Kirby from the Kirby series. Due to it being able to float like kirby even as Wigglytuff, But also the fact can learn Mimic (referencing Kirby's copy ability), Metronome (Kirby's random ability), Rollout (parallel to Kirby's rolling in Tilt n Tumble), and various moves similar to kirby's attacks: Hyper Voice (Kirby's Mike ability), Rest by Level up (Kirby's Sleep ability), Swift (Kirby's star spit), Thunderbolt (The name of an attack Spark Kirby uses), Flamethrower (Similar to Fire Kirby's attack; Fire Breath), Ice Spinner (Parallels Ice Kirby's attack Ice Sprinkle)
The name Jigglypuff is a portmanteau of the words jiggly, referring to its motion, and puff, referring to its buoyancy.
Its Japanese name, Purin, derives from Purin (プリン, Purin), the Japanese word for custard pudding. It may also come from a combination of many Japanese words; fukureru (膨れる, fukureru), meaning to swell or expand; fukafukashita (ふかふかした, fukafukashita), meaning soft or fluffy; fūsen (風船, fūsen), meaning balloon; and mari (鞠, mari), meaning ball. Essentially, it could be taken to mean "a soft and fluffy ball", "a swelling balloon", or a combination of the two.
Concept artwork of Wigglytuff.
Wigglytuff resembles a larger Jigglypuff. It is pink and oval-shaped with a white stomach and short, digitless limbs. Its eyes are the same as its pre-evolution. It has a tuft on its head and long, rabbit-like ears.
Wigglytuff can inflate its soft body, just like its pre-evolution.
Wigglytuff are very gentle creatures that detest fighting. Even when they clash with one another, they only compete by inhaling air to see whose size increases the most. It sheds its fine fur when the season changes. The fur is gathered and spun into a luxurious yarn. Sleeping next to a one is said to be an amazing experience, and a few quirky luxury hotels tote Wigglytuff “sleeping buddies” for extra charge—a practice that benefits both person and Pokémon, as Wigglytuff love the company of people. They grow steadily to enormous sizes to scare off foes; the largest purportedly could grow to 20 times its resting size, though this specimen was never proven to exist. Once inflated, Wigglytuff can float and bounce around lightly like balloons. They compete with one another to see who can become the largest. Their large eyes are always covered with a thin layer of tears that wash away any particles that fall onto their delicate surfaces.
Wigglytuff evolves from Jigglypuff if it touches a Moon Stone and is the final evolution of Igglybuff .
Wigglytuff appeared in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time, Darkness, and Sky, as the leader of the guild. He becomes "the grand master of all things evil" for the guild graduation.
The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size.
Its body is full of elasticity. By inhaling deeply, it can continue to inflate itself without limit.
Their fur feels so good that if two of them snuggle together, they won't want to be separated.
It has a very fine fur. Take care not to make it angry, or it may inflate steadily and hit with a Body Slam.
The rich, fluffy fur that covers its body feels so good that anyone who feels it can't stop touching it.
Wigglytuff has large, saucerlike eyes. The surfaces of its eyes are always covered with a thin layer of tears. If any dust gets in this Pokémon's eyes, it is quickly washed away.
Wigglytuff's body is very flexible. By inhaling deeply, this Pokémon can inflate itself seemingly without end. Once inflated, Wigglytuff bounces along lightly like a balloon.
Its fur is extremely fine, dense, and supple. The exquisitely pleasant fur conveys an image of luxury.
Its fur is the ultimate in luxuriousness. Sleeping alongside a Wigglytuff is simply divine. Its body expands seemingly without end when it inhales.
Its fine fur feels sublime to the touch. It can expand its body by inhaling air.
Its fine fur feels so pleasant, those who accidentally touch it cannot take their hands away.
It sheds its fine fur when the seasons change. The fur is gathered and spun into a luxurious yarn.
As it inhales, it expands...and expands...and expands. Wigglytuff compete to see which one can inflate itself the most.
Thanks to its bouncy body and fine fur, this Pokémon is sought after. Holding one in your arms while you sleep feels great.
When it gets angry, it inhales with all its might, and its body gradually inflates. Sometimes they can grow 20 times larger.
Its body is very elastic. By inhaling deeply, it can continue to inflate itself without limit.
The more air it takes in, the more it inflates. If opponents catch it in a bad mood, it will inflate itself to an enormous size to intimidate them.
It's proud of its fur, which is fine and delicate. In particular, the curl on its forehead has a texture that's perfectly heavenly.
It has a very fine fur. Take care not to make it angry, or it may inflate steadily and hit with a body slam.
This Pokémon's fur feels so nice that if two Wigglytuff snuggle up against each other, they can't bring themselves to separate.
Guildmaster Wigglytuff is the head of the player's guild in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky . He is known for his eccentric behavior and his strength in battle.
Wigglytuff mostly takes traits from its pre-evolution Jigglypuff , most likely being based on a balloon , rubber ball , and possibly a cream puff , with its hair swirl resembling cream . Its rabbit-like features and it evolving from Jigglypuff upon being exposed to a Moon Stone may reference the Moon Rabbit seen in Far Eastern folklore.
Wigglytuff is derived from wiggly and a misspelling of tough . It may also come from tuft (referring to the soft hair on its head).
Zubat serves as a reference to a blue bat. It has a short, round body, purple wings, and slim legs missing feet. Since it has no eyes, it generates sound waves (echolocation) to navigate and communicate with other things around, like a real bat does. Strangely, it can use the move Mean Look , despite not having any eyes. It has very sensitive skin; prolonged exposure to sunlight could mean slight burns, regardless of the outdoor temperature, so Zubat seeks shelter in caves and buildings during the daytime.
Zubat has the ability Inner Focus and the hidden ability Infiltrator . Inner Focus prevents Zubat from flinching. Infiltrator prevents the effects of Reflect , Magic Coat , and Light Screen from working.
Male Zubat have bigger fangs than the females.
Zubat evolves into Golbat starting at level 22 and then evolves into Crobat if leveled up with high friendship .
Forms colonies in perpetually dark places. Uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets.
Emits ultrasonic cries while it flies. They act as a sonar used to check for objects in its way.
While flying, it constantly emits ultrasonic waves from its mouth to check its surroundings.
Capable of flying safely in dark places, it emits ultrasonic cries to check for any obstacles.
During the day, it gathers with others and hangs from the ceilings of old buildings and caves.
Zubat remains quietly unmoving in a dark spot during the bright daylight hours. It does so because prolonged exposure to the sun causes its body to become slightly burned.
Zubat avoids sunlight because exposure causes it to become unhealthy. During the daytime, it stays in caves or under the eaves of old houses, sleeping while hanging upside down.
It has no eyes. Instead, it relies on its ultrasonic cries for echo location to flit about in darkness.
It forms colonies in perpetually dark places and uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets.
While living in pitch-black caverns, their eyes gradually grew shut and deprived them of vision. They use ultrasonic waves to detect obstacles.
Even though it has no eyes, it can sense obstacles using ultrasonic waves it emits from it mouth.
Disliking sunlight, it sleeps deep in forests and caves until sundown.
It checks its surroundings and location using reflections of the ultrasonic waves from its mouth.
It does not need eyes, because it emits ultrasonic waves to check its surroundings while it flies.
Even though it has no eyes, it can sense obstacles using ultrasonic waves it emits from its mouth.
It has no eyes. Instead, it relies on its ultrasonic cries for echolocation to flit about in darkness.
It sleeps in caves during the day. It has no eyes, so to check its surroundings while flying, it emits ultrasonic waves.
When exposed to sunlight, they suffer burns. The frequency of their ultrasonic waves can differ slightly from colony to colony.
It has no eyeballs, so it can’t see. It checks its surroundings via the ultrasonic waves it emits from its mouth.
Their skin is so thin that they’ll be burned if sunlight hits them. When it gets cold out, they gather together to warm one another’s bodies.
It emits ultrasonic waves from its mouth to check its surroundings. Even in tight caves, Zubat flies around with skill.
Zubat live in caves, down where the sun's light won't reach. In the morning, they gather together to keep each other warm as they sleep.
Makes its home in gloomy caves. Atrophied eyes have left this Pokémon blind, so it scans its surroundings via sound waves that it emits from its mouth as it flies.
It sleeps in caves during the day. It has no eyes, so it emits ultrasonic waves to check its surroundings while flying.
Zubat first appeared in Clefairy and the Moon Stone under the ownership of Brock . Brock captured a Zubat when he spotted it on his way inside the cave but its capture was not seen on screen. He later sent out the Zubat to battle Team Rocket. He rarely used Zubat for direct combat, instead focusing on confusing opponents with Supersonic.
Zubats are commonly used by criminal organizations.
Zubat comes from 'bat' and zubatto (an onomatopoeia for a piercing sound).
Zubat is based on vampire bats . Its Poison -typing likely comes from vampire bats secreting anticoagulants in their saliva to keep blood flowing when they bite their prey, and can also be a reference to how bats, much like foxes and raccoons, are the primary carriers of fatal diseases like Rabies . Its lack of eyes may be a reference to how bats rely primarily on echolocation to navigate their surroundings, as well as the common misconception that bats are blind, and possibly the old saying "blind as a bat". Their Pokédex entries stating they dislike sunlight references tales of vampires and how they are harmed upon coming into contact with sunlight.
Golbat is a large, blue bat with super long wings. Unlike its pre-evolved form, named Zubat, Golbat has eyes. It also has two long, skinny feet. The most distinct feature of Golbat is its large mouth with four teeth.
A female Golbat has smaller teeth than those of a male's.
Like Zubat, Golbat are found in caves and dark areas worldwide. Unlike Zubat, however, Golbat are hematophagous, consuming the blood of Pokémon and humans alike. They use their sharp fangs to puncture the skins of victims. Their saliva contains a substance that poisons and immobilizes prey, allowing them to drink blood at their leisure. Golbat can drink up to 10 ounces of blood in one sitting, possibly fatal for smaller victims. After doing so, however, their flight often becomes clumsy and erratic due to their heavy weights after large meals; they may become so heavy that they fall to the ground (and become easy prey themselves). Luckily, this feasting keeps them satisfied for a while; they only search for food during moonless nights when darkness conceals them. Recently, it has been discovered that Golbat broods will share blood with one another during times of scarcity; however, selfish Golbat that do not share blood when asked will find that other brood members will refuse to share with them in the future. Their fangs are hollow and consequently fragile. Notably, Golbat avoid light, metal (perhaps due to their poison being ineffective against Steel-types), and oddly enough, Durin Berries. While no one is quite sure why, Golbat tend to steer clear of them despite experiencing no ill effects upon consuming them. Surprisingly, Golbat are quite adroit on their oddly-shaped feet, which are adapted to create silent footsteps as they sneak up behind sleeping prey.
All Golbat have the ability Inner Focus . Inner Focus allows Golbat to never flinch. Golbat can easily suck blood with its sharp fangs. Blood seems to be Golbat's only food source.
Golbat evolves from Zubat starting at level 22 and evolves into Crobat if leveled up with high friendship .
Once it strikes, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly.
It attacks in a stealthy manner, without warning. Its sharp fangs are used to bite and suck blood.
However hard its victim's hide may be, it punctures with sharp fangs and gorges itself with blood.
It can drink more than 10 ounces of blood at once. If it has too much, it gets heavy and flies clumsily.
When it plunges its fangs into its prey, it instantly draws and gulps down more than ten ounces of blood.
Golbat loves to drink the blood of living things. It is particularly active in the pitch black of night. This Pokémon flits around in the night skies, seeking fresh blood.
Golbat bites down on prey with its four fangs and drinks the victim's blood. It becomes active on inky dark moonless nights, flying around to attack people and Pokémon.
It clamps down on its prey with needle-sharp fangs and drains over 10 ounces of blood in one gulp.
Its fangs easily puncture even thick animal hide. It loves to feast on the blood of people and Pokémon . It flits about in darkness and strikes from behind.
It loves the blood of humans and Pokémon. It flies around at night in search of neck veins.
Once it starts sucking blood, it does not stop until it is full. It flies at night in search of prey.
Its sharp fangs puncture the toughest of hides and have small holes for greedily sucking blood.
Flitting around in the dead of night, it sinks its fangs into its prey and drains a nearly fatal amount of blood.
Once it bites, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly.
Its thick fangs are hollow like straws, making them unexpectedly fragile. These fangs are specialized for sucking blood.
Sometimes they drink so much blood, they can't fly anymore. Then they fall to the ground and become food for other Pokémon.
Every once in a while, you’ll see a Golbat that’s missing some fangs. This happens when hunger drives it to try biting a Steel-type Pokémon.
They can suck down over 10 ounces of blood in one go. They have been known to drink so much blood that they can no longer fly.
It attacks in a stealthy manner, without warning. Its sharp fangs are used to bite and to suck blood.
It loves to drink other creatures' blood. It's said that if it finds others of its kind going hungry, it sometimes shares the blood it's gathered.
Its feet are tiny, but this Pokémon walks skillfully. It sneaks up on sleeping prey before sinking in its fangs and slurping up blood.
It sinks its sharp fangs into other creatures and slurps up their blood. A closer look at the fangs reveals that they are hollow and akin to straws
Golbat punctures even the hardest of hides with its sharp fangs, then gorges itself on its victims' blood.
Golbat comes from goliath and bat .
Golbat is based on Vampire bats . It possibly gets its Poison -typing because vampire bats secrete a substance from their saliva that prevent blood clots.
Concept artwork of Oddish.
Oddish looks like a small animated plant. Its body is blue, with two small feet and red eyes. On top of its head grows a large clump of five long green leaves.
Oddish is a nocturnal Pokémon, using moonlight rather than the sun's rays for photosynthesis. During the day, Oddish avoids the sun's heat and brightness by burying itself into the earth, leaving only the leaves on top of its head visible above ground. This way, it disguises itself as a plant, misdirecting its carnivorous diurnal predators.
While buried, Oddish nourishes itself by absorbing nutrients from the soil using its feet, which are said to temporarily change into a root-like structure for this purpose.
If anyone pulls at Oddish's leaves and tries to uproot it while it is buried underground, Oddish will react by shrieking in a horrible voice.
Once nightfall comes, exposure to moonlight causes Oddish to become much more active. It extracts itself from the ground, and its extremities change back into the shape of legs. It then proceeds to bathe itself in the moonlight and grow, as well as wander around scattering its seeds. With the coming of dawn, the cycle repeats.
Oddish evolves into Gloom starting at level 21 and then evolves into Vileplume if it touches a Leaf Stone or into Bellossom if it touches a Sun Stone .
Max Raid Battle : Dappled Grove, East Lake Axewell, Giant's Cap , Hammerlocke Hills , Motostoke Riverbank , North Lake Miloch
During the day, it keeps its face buried in the ground. At night, it wanders around sowing its seeds.
It may be mistaken for a clump of weeds. If you try to yank it out of the ground, it shrieks horribly.
Awakened by moonlight, it roams actively at night. In the day it stays quietly underground.
If exposed to moonlight, it starts to move. It roams far and wide at night to scatter its seeds.
During the day, it stays in the cold underground to avoid the sun. It grows by bathing in moonlight.
During the daytime, Oddish buries itself in soil to absorb nutrients from the ground using its entire body. The more fertile the soil, the glossier its leaves become.
Oddish searches for fertile, nutrient-rich soil, then plants itself. During the daytime, while it is planted, this Pokémon's feet are thought to change shape and become similar to the roots of trees.
Its scientific name is "Oddium Wanderus." At night, it is said to walk nearly 1,000 feet on its two roots.
This Pokémon grows by absorbing moonlight. During the daytime, it buries itself in the ground, leaving only its leaves exposed to avoid detection by its enemies.
It often plants its root feet in the ground during the day and sows seeds as it walks about at night.
Awakened by moonlight, it roams actively at night. In the day, it stays quietly underground.
Its scientific name is Oddium wanderus. It is said to cover distances as far as 1,000 feet when night falls, walking on its two roots.
When it is woken by moonlight, it wanders about. But during the day, it stays still underground.
Oddish has made a fair number of appearances, but all of them are more or less cameos. Oddish usually appears as a part of a group of Grass -type Pokémon.
In one notable episode, an Oddish is staying with a number of Hoppip whose owner uses them to predict the weather. The unfortunate Oddish envies the Hoppip for their ability to 'fly' in strong breezes.
Goh owns an Oddish that he caught in " Dreams Are Made of These! ".
Oddish is possibly based on a mandrake , which it shares similar behaviors with such as burying itself underground and it shrieking when pulled out of the ground. Its activity at night and intake of moonlight could be an inverse of the photosynthesis process of plants.
Its Japanese name, Nazonokusa, is literally 謎の草 ( nazo no kusa , enigmatic/mysterious grass).
Its English name, Oddish, is a mixture of the words odd , which means strange and peculiar, and radish .
Its French name, Mystherbe, may be a mix of mystere (mystery) and herbe (herb).
Its German name, Myrapla, may be a mix of miracle and plant .
Concept artwork of Vileplume.
Vileplume is purple in color with red eyes and four short limbs. There is also a rafflesia on its head, which is a type of flower known to have a putrid smell.
Female Vileplumes have larger and fewer spots on their petals.
The smell of the flowers attracts prey; when they draw close, Vileplume flap their petals, cloaking themselves and their targets in toxic pollen that quickly immobilizes victims. Even as they walk, Vileplume scatter pollen out of their blooms, turning the surrounding air a sickly yellow. This pollen can cause poisoning and paralysis in large amounts, but can also trigger massive allergy attacks in even trace amounts. Like Oddish and Gloom, Vileplume may hide partially buried in the soil, only exposing their flowers for unwary prey to investigate. Because of this, it is inadvisable to approach large flowers in swamps or jungles, as they may actually be Vileplume in disguise waiting for an opportunity to scatter pollen.
Vileplume are known for their large flower. The flower releases a large amount of pollen in the air when it is flapped. The flapping of the flower can be very loud at times.
Vileplume evolves from Gloom if it touches a Leaf Stone and is one of two final evolutions of Oddish , the other being Bellossom .
Max Raid Battle : Dappled Grove, East Lake Axewell , Giant's Cap , Hammerlocke Hills, Motostoke Riverbank , North Lake Miloch
The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up.
Flaps its broad flower petals to scatter its poisonous pollen. The flapping sound is very loud.
It has the world's largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen.
The bud bursts into bloom with a bang. It then starts scattering allergenic, poisonous pollen.
By shaking its big petals, it scatters toxic pollen into the air, turning the air yellow.
Vileplume's toxic pollen triggers atrocious allergy attacks. That's why it is advisable never to approach any attractive flowers in a jungle, however pretty they may be.
Vileplume has the world's largest petals. They are used to attract prey that are then doused with toxic spores. Once the prey are immobilized, this Pokémon catches and devours them.
Its petals are the largest in the world. It fiendishly scatters allergy-causing pollen from its petals.
In seasons when it produces more pollen, the air around a Vileplume turns yellow with the powder as it walks. The pollen is highly toxic and causes paralysis.
Its petals are the largest in the world. As it walks, it scatters extremely allergenic pollen.
It fiendishly scatters allergenic pollen from its petals, which are the largest in the world.
Vileplume first made its debut in " Holy Matrimony! " under the ownership of Jessebelle .
Vileplume appears to be based on the Rafflesia Arnoldii flower. Its female gender difference may reference the Rafflesia Hasseltii , which has larger white spots than its counterpart.
Vileplume comes from the words vile and plume .
Its Japanese name, Rafureshia, is the Japanese translation of rafflesia, the genus of flower it is based on.
Concept artwork of Paras.
Paras resembles a cross between a cicada nymph and a crab. It has an orange shell-like exterior. Its two front limbs are very large, allowing Paras to grip on to prey and its environment. The most distinct feature are the two mushrooms on its back. It also has very large eyes on the top of its head.
Paras are covered in fungal spores upon birth, specifically that of a variety known as tochukaso. As a Paras grows, so do the mushrooms on its back, which are not present at birth and do not emerge until later in development. Paras feed by burrowing and sucking nutrients out of tree roots; in turn, the mushrooms drain nutrients out of their host Paras's bodies. Paras must feed ravenously as a result. Recent discoveries have shown that the mushrooms also control part of their hosts’ brains, and in fact are the ones that signal for Paras to burrow for roots. Paras can be found in damp, dark areas where fungi thrive; sunlight and dryness can damage their bodies.
Paras can have the ability Effect Spore or Dry Skin .
Effect Spore makes the foe paralyzed, asleep or poisoned 30% of the time whenever the foe hits Paras with a physical move. Dry Skin causes Paras to recover HP when it is raining and lose HP when it is sunny. The mushrooms on Paras' back have a mutualism with each other. The mushrooms get energy from Paras, while Paras gets to create spores .
Paras evolves into Parasect starting at level 24.
Paras is featured in The Problem with Paras under the ownership of Cassandra . It was initially extremely weak and cowardly but Cassandra needed it to evolve into a Parasect so she can use the giant mushroom to aid in her medical research. It does so towards the end of the episode.
Goh owns a Paras that was caught in Working My Way Back to Mew! .
Paras appears to be based on a cicada nymph with some aspects of a crab . Its mushrooms seem to be based on Cordyceps fungi, which parasitize and mind-control several species of insects in order to propagate.
Paras is a shortening of the word parasite .
Concept artwork of Parasect.
Parasect, like its pre-evolution Paras , is a crab-like Pokémon. Parasect has a large red-orange-spotted mushroom on its back and six legs. Parasect's two front legs are larger than its other four, which are used for gripping its prey.
It has been shown in Pokédex entries that Parasect gather in groups to feed off of the nutrients from trees (mostly the bark and roots). Their fungi entirely overtake their bodies and minds. Parasect dwell in damp places due to their fungi's own preferences for moisture (they often compete with Shiinotic for land). They are highly aggressive. Throughout their lives, the mushroom continues to drain their hosts until there is nothing left. At that point, they scatter spores over their hosts’ eggs to restart the cycle. If a Parasect's mushroom is entirely removed, the Pokémon enters a comatose state indefinitely.
Parasect can have two of the following abilities, either Effect Spore or Dry Skin. Effect Spore allows Parasect to have a 30% chance to paralyze, sleep, or poison a foe when hit by a contact move. Dry Skin allows Parasect to recover HP when it is raining and lose HP when it is sunny.
Parasect evolves from Paras starting at level 24.
A host-parasite pair in which the parasite mushroom has taken over the host bug. Prefers damp places.
The bug host is drained of energy by the mushrooms on its back. They appear to do all the thinking.
It stays mostly in dark, damp places, the preference not of the bug, but of the big mushrooms on its back.
The larger the mushroom on its back grows, the stronger the mushroom spores it scatters.
When nothing's left to extract from the bug, the mushrooms on its back leave spores on the bug's egg.
Parasect is known to infest large trees en masse and drain nutrients from the lower trunk and roots. When an infested tree dies, they move onto another tree all at once.
It scatters toxic spores from the mushroom cap. In China, the spores are used as herbal medicine.
Parasect are known to infest the roots of large trees in masses and drain nutrients. When an infested tree dies, they move onto another tree all at once.
A mushroom grown larger than the host's body controls Parasect. It scatters poisonous spores.
It is controlled by a mushroom grown larger than the bug body. It is said to prefer damp places.
The large mushroom on its back controls it. It often fights over territory with Shiinotic.
It scatters toxic spores from its mushroom cap. Once harvested, these spores can be steeped and boiled down to prepare herbal medicines.
The bug is mostly dead, with the mushroom on its back having become the main body. If the mushroom comes off, the bug stops moving.
Its poisonous spores are also used in traditional medicine. Apparently, spores produced in Alola are not of very good quality.
The bug host is drained of energy by the mushrooms on its back. The mushroom appears to do all the thinking.
Parasect is controlled by a mushroom that has grown larger than its host's body. The Pokémon scatters poisonous spores.
It is controlled by the mushroom, which has grown larger than the bug body. It is said to prefer damp places.
Mushroom-lacking specimens of this Pokémon lie unmoving in the forest, lending credence to the hypothesis that the large mushroom is in control of Parasect's actions.
Parasect appears to be based on a cicada nymph with some traits of a crab.
The mushrooms growing on its back is based on fungi such as Ophiocordyceps sinensis and Cordyceps militaris , which are known to parasitize and mind-control insects. They are also based on the Tochukaso, which is an aphrodisiac that can be sold at a high price.
Parasect comes from parasite and insect .
Venonat is covered in large, purple fur. The feet of Venonat are brown and are about half as long as Venonat itself with its hands being the same color but a third of the size. Venonat have two white antennae that stick out of their head. The most notable feature of Venonat is their large, red eyes. It also has a small nose just under its eyes.
Venonat can have the ability Compoundeyes or the ability Tinted Lens . Compoundeyes increases Venonat's accuracy by 30%. Tinted Lens increases the power of not-very-effective moves by 1.5x. Venonat's eyes are very accurate: they enable Venonat to easily catch extremely small prey. Conway has a Venonat in the episode Camping It Up .
Venonat evolves into Venomoth starting at level 31.
Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats bugs. It is attracted by light at night.
Its large eyes act as radars. In a bright place, you can see that they are clusters of many tiny eyes.
Its eyes also function as radar units. It catches and eats small bugs that hide in darkness.
Poison oozes from all over its body. It catches and eats small bugs at night that are attracted by light.
The small bugs it eats appear only at night, so it sleeps in a hole in a tree until night falls.
Venonat is said to have evolved with a coat of thin, stiff hair that covers its entire body for protection. It possesses large eyes that never fail to spot even minuscule prey.
Its eyes act as radar, enabling it to be active in darkness. The eyes can also shoot powerful beams.
Its coat of thin, stiff hair that covers its entire body is said to have evolved for protection. Its large eyes never fail to spot even miniscule prey.
Its big eyes are actually clusters of tiny eyes. At night, its kind is drawn by light.
Its large eyes act as a radar. In a bright place, you can see that they are clusters of many tiny eyes.
Poison oozes from all over its body. It catches small bug Pokémon at night that are attracted by light.
Venonat resembles parasitic insects such as fleas and ticks, possibly based on the former due to its large feet which it uses to hop. It may also be based on a radar system as its eyes function like one and its antennae resemble those found on them.
Venonat's name is derived from the words " venom " and " gnat ".
Venomoth is a purple moth Pokémon. The eyes of Venomoth are black and much smaller than its pre-evolved form. Venomoth has two white fangs protruding from its mouthpart. Venomoth has a head, thorax, and abdomen, unlike some other Bug Pokémon. The wings of Venomoth are larger than its body, with the top sections of its wings being much larger than the bottoms. Its shiny incarnation has a pale blue wing coloration on its head and upper body, whereas its lower body (abdomen) and legs are a light brown.
Venomoth can have the ability Shield Dust or the ability Tinted Lens . Shield Dust negates all side effects of attacks. Tinted Lens increases non-effective moves by 1.5x. Venomoth's wings are covered with scales. The scales are poisonous and are released when Venomoth flaps its wings.
Venomoth evolves from Venonat starting at level 31.
The dust-like scales covering its wings are color coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has.
The powdery scales on its wings are hard to remove. They also contain poison that leaks out on contact.
When it attacks, it flaps its large wings violently to to scatter its poisonous powder all around.
The powder on its wings is poisonous if it is dark in color. If it is light, it causes paralysis.
It digs underground and chews on tree roots, sticking its head out only when the sun isn't bright.
Venomoth is nocturnal - it is a Pokémon that only becomes active at night. Its favorite prey are small insects that gather around streetlights, attracted by the light in the darkness.
The wings are covered with dustlike scales. Every time it flaps its wings, it looses highly toxic dust.
The dustlike scales covering its wings are color-coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has.
It flutters its wings to scatter dustlike scales. The scales leach toxins if they contact skin.
When it attacks, it flaps its large wings violently to scatter its poisonous powder all around.
The powder on its wings is poisonous if it is dark in hue. If it is light in hue, it causes paralysis.
The scales it scatters will paralyze anyone who touches them, making that person unable to stand.
Venomoth is nocturnal-it is a Pokémon that only becomes active at night. Its favorite prey are small insects that gather around streetlights, attracted by the light in the darkness.
The powdery scales on its wings are hard to remove from skin. They also contain poison that leaks out on contact.
Venomoth is based on a moth and their nocturnal behaviors which are alluded to with its pre-evolution and how it is attracted to light. Its Poison -type may comes from a defense mechanism some moths have in which they contain toxins in their bodies. Venomoth also bears a striking resemblance to the kaiju Battra in its adult form.
Venomoth comes from venom and moth .
Concept artwork of Diglett.
Diglett is small, brown, molelike Pokémon with two small eyes and a large pink/red nose. Since part of its body is underground, whether or not Diglett has feet, tail(s), etc. is unknown. However, in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon Red Rescue Team and Blue Rescue Team, the rescued Diglett (after Skarmory kidnapped him) claimed to say his feet were getting cold (Which thereafter caused an awkward moment of silence).
Concept artwork of Alolan Diglett.
Alolan Diglett has three pieces of blonde hair that are on top of its head. Their hair are actually steel whiskers that result from being exposed to high iron content.
Diglett live only a few feet underground, and feed on plant roots. They burrow through the ground at a shallow depth, leaving raised earth in their wake, perfect for planting crops. Diglett are frequently kept on farms for this reason. Diglett have very thin skin, and thus if a Diglett is exposed to light its blood will heat up, causing it to grow weak. This weakness to heat causes Diglett to prefer dark places, sticking their heads up only when the sun is not bright. Otherwise, they pop up in caves. Diglett make their homes in tunnels and caves under the earth, most of which are made by burrowing Onix .
Alolan Diglett always feel the need to dig through volcanic rocks, making them much stronger than their other regional counterparts. Their head whiskers change shape depending on their mood.
Diglett are proficient diggers and can Dig quickly.
Alolan Diglett can dig through hard volcanic rocks with their sheer strength. They can communicate with the steel whiskers on their heads.
Diglett evolves into Dugtrio starting at level 26.
In the anime, Diglett first appeared in Dig Those Diglett . They were causing trouble for a construction crew that planning on building a dam. The foreman insisted that the Diglett were to be exterminated, but the Pokémon of the trainers that happened to be in the area refused to fight them. The reason was that the Diglett and Dugtrio were helping to plant trees in the forest. Diglett were also used by a man named Poncho in The Underground Round-Up. He used them to dig tunnels underground of a town that was infested with Electrode. The tunnels sent the Electrode to an open field where they'd live in peace. Diglett were also featured in Plant It Now...Diglett Later!, helping villagers with crops and being the apparent target of some thieves.
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Diglett makes a cameo in Raging Rhydon as wild Pokémon of Mt. Moon. Red also owns a Diglett that he uses against Eevee.
Diglett's phrase about his feet
Diglett may be based on a mole, more specifically, moles used in the game Whack-A-Mole which have a much more rounded shape and pop in and out of holes similarly to Diglett.
Its Alolan form and it gaining the Steel -type may reference magnetic sand. Along with this, it may be based on the black sand that is found on some beaches. Its hair may also come from Pele's hair, a type of volcanic glass that forms around Hawaiian volcanoes and appears similarly to clumps of hair.
Diglett comes from dig and the suffix -let (often used to denote something small).
Dugtrio resembles a congregated trio of Diglett. Although they look the same, the heights are varied. The middle body is the tallest, the left body is the second tallest, and the right body is the shortest. The holes that Dugtrio make are bigger due to the increase in size during its evolution. It's brown and it looks similar to a mole, but with a large, pink nose.
Concept artwork of Alolan Dugtrio.
The Alolan form of Dugtrio has developed golden magnetic "hair". The middle body has the longest and curliest hair, while the left body has shorter blond hair and the right body has the shortest and straightest hair. They also have slightly darker body fur.
Both types of Dugtrio have a body, though they do not reveal this to anyone, not even their Trainers.
Like Diglett, Dugtrio loathe sunlight. As triplets emerging from the same body, they also share the same thought process as each other. Nonetheless, Dugtrio are more aggressive than Diglett, and they'll try all kinds of methods to attack its enemy or opponents who are digging holes underground from all directions. Druddigon is a known predator of it.
Regardless, Dugtrio are very friendly with humans; Kantonian Dugtrio help people with agriculture, while Alolan Dugtrio are worshipped as feminine deities of the land incarnate regardless of gender. It is rumored that any hair picked up from Alolan Dugtrio will give bad luck. Thus, Alolans who see Kantoian Dugtrio will often be shocked by their lack of "hair".
Dugtrio live underground in caves. However, in Pikachu's Rescue Adventure , they live in hollow trees as well.
Dugtrio are capable of burrowing over 60 MPH. This strength to do so sometimes triggers earthquakes or tremors.
Alolan Dugtrio have hair that will keep growing. This "hair" is actually thin yet heavy stands of steel, and can be used to detect nearby seismic activity.
Dugtrio evolves from Diglett starting at level 26.
A team of Diglett triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground.
A team of triplets that can burrow over 60 MPH. Due to this, some people think it's an earthquake.
Its three heads bob separately up and down to loosen the soil nearby, making it easier for it to burrow.
Extremely powerful, they can dig through even the hardest ground to a depth of over 60 miles.
These Diglett triplets dig over 60 miles below sea level. No one knows what it's like underground.
Dugtrio are actually triplets that emerged from one body. As a result, each triplet thinks exactly like the other two triplets. They work cooperatively to burrow endlessly.
In battle, it digs through the ground and strikes the unsuspecting foe from an unexpected direction.
Because the triplets originally split from one body, they think exactly alike. They work cooperatively to burrow endlessly through the ground.
Its three heads move alternately, driving it through tough soil to depths of over 60 miles.
Kantonian Form : This set of triplets moves cooperatively. It's the power of teamwork that enables this Pokémon to dig to a depth of 60 miles. Alolan Form : Its shining gold hair provides it with protection. It's reputed that keeping any of its fallen hairs will bring bad luck.
Kantonian Form : Despite the closeness between this Pokémon and farmers and other people, no one has ever seen the parts of it concealed underground. Alolan Form : These Pokémon are cherished in the Alola region, where they are thought to be feminine deities of the land incarnate.
Kantonian Form : While the three of them normally get along splendidly, on rare occasions a huge fight will break out over which head gets to eat first. Alolan Form : Its metallic whiskers are heavy, so it’s not very fast, but it has the power to dig through bedrock.
Kantonian Form : Dugtrio’s heads are sleek and smooth and incredibly hard. It can dig through any soil with its headbutts. Alolan Form : Its shining gold whiskers are advanced sensors that can detect vibrations from sounds several miles away.
Kantonian Form : A team of triplets that can burrow to a depth of 60 miles. It's reported that this triggers an earthquake. Alolan Form: They're referred to as triplets, but they're not identical–the metallic elements in their bodies differ slightly. The proof shows in their whiskers!
Kantonian Form : A team of Diglett triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground. Alolan Form : Their beautiful, metallic whiskers create a sort of protective helmet on their heads, and they also function as highly precise sensors.
Kantonian Form : These Diglett triplets dig over 60 miles below sea level. No one knows what it's like underground. Alolan Form : The three of them get along very well. Through their formidable teamwork, they defeat powerful opponents.
Kantonian Form : Its three heads bob separately up and down to loosen the soil nearby, making it easier for it to burrow. Alolan Form : Its shining gold whiskers are advanced sensors that can detect vibrations from sounds several miles away.
Kantonian Form : In battle, it digs through the ground and strikes the unsuspecting foe from an unexpected direction. Alolan Form : Its metallic whiskers are heavy, so it’s not very fast, but it has the power to dig through even the hardest bedrock.
In the Pokémon Stadium 2 stage, a Dugtrio can be seen on the Ground Terrain situated next to a large rock. Cubone & Pokémon Fossils can also be seen on the Ground Terrain.
"A Mole Pokemon. It has three heads that seem to all think the same thing. It lives in caves and is skilled at digging--no matter how hard the ground is, it can dig up to 62 miles below the surface. It's among the fastest of Ground-type Pokemon, a characteristic that can be counted on in combat. Its Sand Tomb is an effective attack that prevents opponents from escaping."
Dugtrio may be based on a group of moles, more specifically, moles used in the game Whack-A-Mole which have a much more rounded shape and pop in and out of holes similarly to Dugtrio does.
Its Alolan form and it gaining the Steel -type may reference magnetic sand. Along with this, it may be based on the black sand that is found on some beaches. Its hair may also come from Pele's hair, a type of volcanic glass that forms around Hawaiian volcanoes and appears similarly to clumps of hair. Its hair may also be a pun on "hair metal", a style of metal music.
Dugtrio comes from dug (paste tense for 'dig') and trio .
Concept artwork of Kantonian Meowth.
Meowth is a small, bipedal, feline Pokémon. It has two cream whiskers on each side of its oval-shaped face and two hairs sticking up on either side of the golden coin-like gem on its forehead. Meowth also has a curled tail. Meowth's tail and feet are cream-colored like the rest of it, but they are brown at the end. It has small paw pads on the undersides of its heels and toes. It is much like a Maneki Neko, a toy of Japanese descent known for bobbing its arm and hand up and down.
Concept artwork of Alolan Meowth.
Alolan Meowth is a light blue-gray with smaller, half-open eyes. It was bred by royalty in the past. They are very spoiled, selfish and arrogant, which makes them popular.
Galarian Meowth is a grayish-brown color with thicker fur and a grinning mouth with sharp teeth. It travelled with Vikings in ancient times, which caused its fur to harden into iron. It battles by extending its claws like daggers.
Gigantamax Meowth is a distorted version of its original form. Its body becomes extremely long, its eyes turn yellow without pupils and its coin gains a kanji for big on it.
Meowth usually preys on other weaker Pokémon, showing that it is carnivorous. However, it sometimes takes in fruits, so it is more accurate to call it an omnivore.
Meowth is largely nocturnal and often prowls the streets looking for loose change, as it is attracted to bright shiny objects for some unexplained reason. It always cleans its face to prevent its forehead coin from getting dirtied. It is common to witness Meowth ferociously disputing with Murkrow , which is also known for being equally obsessed with glowing things. Although it can be easily drawn by coins and may befriend people that offers them, its fickleness cannot guarantee such friendships will last; when it is feeling good, it will be willing to share a look of its hoarded treasures to its Trainer.
Meowth are common Pokémon roaming and dwelling in cities and towns. Some reside at forests or near beaches. Most are ubiquitous in Kanto and Johto , but uncommon in Sinnoh .
Alolan Meowth is extremely cunning, capricious and proud, and will become very aggressive when someone dirties its coin or hurts its self-esteem. It is also extremely picky about food due to its kind having dwelt with royalties for centuries. Nonetheless, it is popular among Trainers who prefer giving more attention to others than themselves. It usually repeatedly targets its foes' blind spots during battles.
Alolan Meowth were not originated from Alola but instead being an imported species for the royalties. The collapse of dynasties have caused them to become more and more commonplace around Alola.
Its Galarian Form is a warrior, often showing off the dark coin on its head to others. The darker and harder its coin, the more respect it can earn from its kind. It doesn't get along with its Kantonian variant. These Meowth spent much of their lives aboard ships, helping their trainers plunder defenseless villages near beaches and rivers. When these raiders returned to their northern homes, they shared some of their stolen riches with their Pokémon.
Meowth are known for their razor sharp claws that can ruthlessly scratch their foes and inflict numerous scars. They can effortlessly retract said claws to stealthily sneak away.
In the anime, Meowth (Team Rocket) is capable of human speech (a skill he learned while living on the street of Hollywood to impress a female Meowth named Meowzie ).
Meowth evolves into Persian starting at level 28. Kantonian Meowth can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Meowth . Alolan Meowth evolves into Alola Persian if leveled up with high friendship . Galarian Meowth evolves into Perrserker starting at level 28.
Trade in Turffield (Kantonian) Gift from Diglett Trainer in Isle of Armor (Alolan) Max Raid Battle : Dusty Bowl , Giant's Seat , Stony Wilderness
Adores circular objects. Wanders the street on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change.
Appears to be more active at night. It loves round and shiny things. It can't stop from picking them up.
It is fascinated by round objects. It can't stop playing with them until it tires and falls asleep.
It loves anything that shines. It especially adores coins that it picks up and secretly hoards.
It loves things that sparkle. When it sees a shiny object, the gold coin on its head shines too.
Meowth withdraws its sharp claws into its paws to slinkily sneak about without making any incriminating footsteps. For some reason, this Pokémon loves shiny coins that glitter with light.
All it does is sleep during the daytime. At night, it patrols its territory with its eyes aglow.
Adores round objects. It wanders the streets on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change.
Meowth withdraw their sharp claws into their paws to silently sneak about. For some reason, this Pokémon loves shiny coins that glitter with light.
It is nocturnal in nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter brightly.
Kantonian Form : It lies around all day, becoming active near dusk. At night, it wanders the city in search of loose change. Alolan Form : This Pokémon was not originally found in Alola. Human actions caused a surge in their numbers, and they went feral. They're prideful and crafty.
Kantonian Form : It loves shiny things. It often fights with Murkrow over prey they're both trying to catch. Alolan Form : When its delicate pride is wounded, or when the gold coin on its forehead is dirtied, it flies into a hysterical rage.
Kantonian Form : When visiting a junkyard, you may catch sight of it having an intense fight with Murkrow over shiny objects. Alolan Form : It’s impulsive, selfish, and fickle. It’s very popular with some Trainers who like giving it the attention it needs.
Kantonian Form : It loves coins, so if you give it one, you can make friends with Meowth easily. But it’s fickle, so you can’t count on that friendship lasting. Alolan Form : A royal house that flourished in the distant past brought it here from another region. Meowth is both selfish and prideful.
Kantonian Form: Appears to be more active at night. It loves round and shiny things. It can't stop itself from picking them up. Alolan Form: Highly intelligent and prideful, it's famously difficult to handle–but that's also a reason for its popularity.
Kantonian Form : It loves to collect shiny things. If it's in a good mood, it might even let its Trainer have a look at its hoard of treasures. Alolan Form : It's accustomed to luxury because it used to live with Alolan royalty. As a result, it's very picky about food. Galarian Form : Living with a savage, seafaring people has toughened this Pokémon's body so much that parts of it have turned to iron. Gigantamax : The pattern that has appeared on its giant coin is thought to be the key to unlocking the secrets of the Dynamax phenomenon.
Kantonian Form : It washes its face regularly to keep the coin on its forehead spotless. It doesn't get along with Galarian Meowth. Alolan Form : Deeply proud and keenly smart, this Pokémon moves with cunning during battle and relentlessly attacks enemies' weak points. Galarian Form : These daring Pokémon have coins on their foreheads. Darker coins are harder, and harder coins garner more respect among Meowth. Gigantamax : Its body has grown incredibly long and the coin on its forehead has grown incredibly large all thanks to Gigantamax power.
It is nocturnal by nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter as brightly as the shiny object.
It loves things that sparkle. When it sees a shiny object, the gold coin on its head shines, too.
Kantonian Form : It loves anything that shines. It especially adores coins, which it will pick up and stash somewhere. Alolan Form : It's fickle, selfish, and easily bored. This species is very popular with certain Trainers-ones who prefer fulfilling others' needs over their own. Galarian Form : Its unkempt beard is a vestige from living in cold climes. It fights dauntlessly using its steel claws.
Kōnya beta sprite
Meowth is based on the Maneki-neko , a Japanese yōkai that supposedly gave great luck by raising its paw. They are often used as charms in the form of toys or statues that are said to bring good luck or wealth to businesses if placed at the entrance of a room or establishment. This is evident by Meowth's move Pay Day , which increases the amount of money earned after a battle. Meowth also sports a Koban, an ancient Japanese gold coin that is often seen held by Maneki-neko statues. Junichi Masuda has also stated that Meowth was partially based on Satoshi Tajiri 's pet cat.
Its Alolan Form is based off the British Blue, a British Shorthair with blue-gray fur.
Its Galarian form may be based on a Norwegian Forest Cat with elements of a stereotypical Viking . Its Shiny coloration resembles its counterpart from Kanto.
Its Gigantamax form may act as a reference to the long-cat meme, or the giant mutant cat from the 1970 British comedy " Monty Python's Flying Circus " which was created to stop killer cars but eventually went rogue on its own, or Street Fighter 3 's Necro.
Meowth comes from "meow" and "wealth".
Its Japanese name Nyaasu comes from "nya", the Japanese onomatopoeia for "meow".
Persian resembles a large cat. Its fur is beige in color, and it has a curly tail. There is also a small, red gem on its forehead, which is said to give the Pokémon power. The Persian is named after the Persian breed of cat, although it resembles a cougar, with a yellowish white fur color. It may possibly be an albino cougar. Another possibility is that it is based on a Siamese cat, a breed of cat which, much like Persian, has a beige coloring and black ears and medium-sized whiskers.
Concept artwork of Alolan Persian.
Persian's Alolan form generally resembles its normal one, albeit colored light blue gray. However its most noticeable distinction is its comically oversized spherical head, disproportionately large compared to its slimmer body. The gem on its head is now blue, and it has narrow, half-closed eyes and large rounded ears.
This Pokémon, while very beautiful and elegant is not the best pet, especially for new trainers. The reason for this is that Persian are known to have unpredictable temperaments and are apt to turn vicious in the blink of an eye, one moment it might be contentedly purring and rubbing its head against its trainer's hand while it is being petted, the next it could unsheathe its claws and scratch the hand that was petting it. Its tail raising straight is a sign of it being ready to pounce and attack.
The Alolan form of this Pokémon is even more difficult to look after, since it was spoiled by the royal families in ancient Alola and thus has made them much more disobedient towards Trainers. Despite this, it could be a strong battler in battles but not without applying underhanded tactics such as blindsiding and sucker punching, and will hostilely torment its fallen foes, though it sometimes gets defeated by opponents' counterattacks because of underestimation.
Some Persian have the ability Limber while others have Technician . Limber prevents Persian from being paralyzed. Technician powers up non-effective moves. Persian will have the Dreamworld ability Unnerve which will prevent its opponent from consuming its berry.
As for the Alolan varient, it has Fur Coat , Technician & Rattled .
Persian are usually commonly spotted at roads near cities and towns. Wild Persian are harder and rarer to be sighted.
Persian evolves from Meowth starting at level 28. Alolan Persian evolves from Alolan Meowth if leveled up with high friendship .
Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness.
The gem in its forehead glows on its own! It walks with all the grace and elegance of a proud queen.
Many adore it for its sophisticated air. However, it will lash out and scratch for little reason.
Its lithe muscles allow it to walk without making a sound. It attacks in an instant.
Behind its lithe, elegant appearance lies a barbaric side. It will tear apart its prey on a mere whim.
Persian has six bold whiskers that give it a look of toughness. The whiskers sense air movements to determine what is in the Pokémon's surrounding vicinity. It becomes docile if grabbed by the whiskers.
Has a vicious temperament. Beware if it raises its tail straight up. It is a signal that it is about to pounce and bite.
A Persian's six bold whiskers sense air movements to determine what is in its vicinity. It becomes docile if grabbed by the whiskers.
A very haughty Pokémon. Among fans, the size of the jewel in its forehead is a topic of much talk.
Kantonian Form : It has a violent temperament. It will attack anything that looks it in the eye. Its sharp claws inflict deep wounds. Alolan Form : Its round face and smooth coat—softer than the most high-class velvet—have made this a very popular Pokémon in Alola.
Kantonian Form : It has a high opinion of itself, although not to the same extent as the Alolan Persian. It's quite difficult to make friends with this Pokémon. Alolan Form : It looks down on everyone other than itself. Its preferred tactics are sucker punches and blindside attacks.
Kantonian Form : Although the jewel on its forehead appears to be a different color than those of Alolan Persian, it’s mostly made of the same material. Alolan Form : In contrast to its lovely face, it’s so brutal that it tortures its weakened prey rather than finishing them off.
Kantonian Form : This Pokémon is popular with rich people. It’s also targeted by hunters who are after the jewel in its forehead. Alolan Form : Its round face is a symbol of wealth. Persian that have bigger, plumper faces are considered more beautiful.
Kantonian Form: The gem in its forehead glows on its own! It walks with all the grace and elegance of a proud queen. Alolan Form: It has the classiest coat. The rippling of its fur in the heat of battle has a beauty all its own.
Kantonian Form: Getting this prideful Pokémon to warm up to you takes a lot of effort, and it will claw at you the moment it gets annoyed. Alolan Form: The round face of Alolan Persian is considered to be a symbol of prosperity in the Alola region, so these Pokémon are very well cared for.
Kantonian Form: Its elegant and refined behavior clashes with that of the barbaric Perrserker. The relationship between the two is one of mutual disdain. Alolan Form: This Pokémon is one tough opponent. Not only does it have formidable physical abilities, but it's also not above fighting dirty.
It is a very haughty Pokémon. Among fans of Persian, the size of the jewel in its forehead is a topic of much talk.
It has a vicious temperament. Beware if it raises its tail straight up. This is a signal that it is about to pounce and bite.
Kantonian Form: Many admire Persian for the dignity it exudes from every inch of its body. However, it will lash out with its claws given the slightest provocation. Alolan Form: Its round face is a symbol of wealth. Persian that have bigger, plumper faces are considered more beautiful.
In the anime, Giovanni owns a Persian. This Persian is often found near Giovanni during his discussions with other Team Rocket members. Meowth from Team Rocket is jealous of this Persian because of the treatment it gets from Giovanni. Both Tyson's and Team Rocket's Meowth dislike Persian due to an event in their past.
Persian is based on large cats such as pumas and Siamese cats . Its association with elegance and royalty may be based on how cats were worshipped in ancient times particularly in Egypt .
Alolan Persian bears some features of its namesake breed as well as the "British Blue" variant of the British Shorthair . Its large fat head and flat face may be based on how inbreeding of purebred cats for certain traits causes genetic anomalies, as well as the tendency of pampered house cats becoming prone to obesity.
Persian is a breed of a fancy cat.
Psyduck is a medium-sized, yellow platypus-like or duck-like Pokémon. Only the feet and bill are tan. The other body parts are all yellow. Psyduck has three black hairs on top of its head, and its hands are always on its head due to its constant headache.
Psyduck always hold their heads due to the fact that they have a near-constant headache. This makes them seem like they are unintelligent, when in fact they are quite clever and wily.
Psyduck suffers from a constant headache. From time to time, its headache causes it psychic abilities to increase tenfold, but it always forgets when this happens.
Psyduck evolves into Golduck starting at level 33.
Psyduck is based on a Platypus and a Duck . Given its Japanese name can mean "child duck", its coloration may be based on a duckling. Its cartoonish appearance and feather-covered claws maybe a reference to anthropomorphic ducks such as Donald Duck and Daffy Duck. It may also be based on a rubber duck, since it has a simple body design and yellow coloration.
Psyduck's name is a combination of the words "psychic" and "duck".
Its Japanese name, Koduck, can be taken to mean "small duck" or "child duck".
Golduck is a blue-colored duck Pokémon. Its hands and feet are now webbed, which result in Golduck's superior swimming skills. Golduck has red eyes and a red gem on its head. Its head has four spikes on top. It has a long tail and its hands and feet have three long claws.
Golduck can use psychic powers. When they are used, the gem on its head will glow, which nearly drove it to extinction. It is also a strong swimmer. The manga shows that via Telepathy , it can give its Trainer and allies knowledge.
Using their webbed limbs, they can easily outspeed even the fastest human swimmers, and as such can make quick work of agile fish; they may even use their psychic abilities to disorient and disable their prey before catching them. Surprisingly, Golduck rely heavily on their tails for swimming strength, stamina and maneuverability in addition to their limbs. Golduck can swim for two days straight without rest. They can often be seen gliding agilely through the water at dusk in slower rivers (though they have no trouble with currents).
Golduck is most likely a fish eater, but eats its food on land as opposed to in the water.
Most scientists in the world of Pokémon believe that Golduck, with their duck-like appearances and crepuscular natures, are the inspiration behind the mythical kappa, a common myth in regions like Kanto and Johto; in these regions, they were thought to punish those who polluted their rivers by pulling them beneath the waters.
Golduck evolves from Psyduck starting at level 33.
Onia's Golduck.
In " Bye Bye Psyduck ", Misty saw a Golduck which she thought her Psyduck evolved into, but it was later revealed to be a wild Golduck that had similar behaviors to Brock . In " The Perfect Match ", Trinity used a Golduck to battle Misty in the Whirl Cup.
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Blue owns a Golduck and uses it to Surf and battle.
Golduck is likely based on a duck , platypus , and a kappa . It is also possible that Golduck is based on the bunyip , an aquatic monster of Australian aboriginal mythology , sometimes depicted with webbed feet and a duck's bill.
Golduck is derived from gold (gold is often associated with psychic properties) and duck .
Concept artwork of Mankey.
Mankey is a small, monkey-like Pokémon. They are a mostly tan in color, with a round body, long limbs and a tail. They have a pig nose due to it being the Pig Monkey species. Mankey are also renowned for their pointy ears and medium length fur. They have triangular eyes with red irises; this clearly represents the anger this Pokémon is known for.
Mankey can have the abilities Vital Spirit or Anger Point . Vital Spirit allows Mankey to be immune to sleeping. Anger Point raises Mankey's Attack when it is hit by a critical hit . Mankey are very easy to anger.
Mankey are known for their incredibly short tempers. Even the slightest provocation can send them into fits of rage. Their bodies shudder uncontrollably and their nostrils flare up right before they strike. Then, they launch relentless flurries of attacks at their foes before they even get a chance to retaliate or escape. Despite their temperaments, Mankey are very social Pokémon that live in groups in the treetops. If one Mankey is angered, the entire colony will attack. In their huge frenzies, they are unable to tell friend from foe and may even attack one another, becoming even angrier. They are very agile creatures, able to swing in the trees to chase foes. If they lose track of their colonies, they will be infuriated by their own loneliness and attack everything they see. They may pass out from their tantrums, but be so angry in their dreams that they reawaken, and then become further enraged by the interruption. Notably, they enjoy bananas, Chesto Berries, and chestnuts, but their inability to peel the latter greatly enrages them. In Alola, it is said that Mankey live a long time because they never hold in their anger. However, despite this they are actually quite playful creatures.
Mankey evolves into Primeape starting at level 28 and then evolves into Annihilape if leveled up after using Rage Fist 20 times.
In the anime, a Mankey stole Ash's trademark cap. After James kicked it, the Mankey soon evolved into a Primeape which Ash then caught after subduing it with rage from his Charmander.
Mankey is based on a monkey of some kind, most likely a baboon , due to its pig -like nose, long tail, and aggressive personality. Mankey may also be a play on the term "go ape", which means to show great anger or excitement.
Mankey and Mankī likely come from "manly", "monkey", "mad", "maniac", and possibly "manky" (chiefly British slang for "low-quality" or "bad") and/or "cranky" (likely referring to its angry personality).
Concept artwork of Primape.
Primeape with belt.
Primeape is a bipedal, simian Pokémon with a round body covered in whitish, shaggy fur. There is usually a throbbing vein on the left side of its forehead, and it has triangular ears with pink insides, narrow eyes with tiny pupils, and a pink, snout-like nose. Its arms and legs are brown and have metal shackles on the wrists and ankles. This is probably indicative of a method of training with weights. The hands have no visible fingers, instead resembling mittens or boxing gloves, and the feet have two toes.
Primeape is easily angered; even the slightest glance of eye contact will make it furious. When Primeape is furious, its blood circulation is boosted. This makes its muscles stronger, but at the cost of some of its intelligence. However, it has sturdy vessels in its brain that help keep it healthy. It will chase anyone who upsets it and will not stop until it has caught its quarry. Even if it is awoken from sleep, it will groggily chase whatever woke it.
They can be found in forests or mountains in Kanto and Sinnoh .
Primeape like to eat bananas and other fruits.
Primeape are easier to anger than its pre-evolved form. When it attacks, it uses strong punches and kicks.
Primeape evolves from Mankey starting at level 28 and evolves into Annihilape if leveled up after using Rage Fist 20 times.
Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it is caught.
It stops being angry only when nobody else is around. To view this moment is very difficult.
If approached while asleep, it may awaken and angrily give chase in a groggy state of semi-sleep.
It becomes wildly furious if it even senses someone looking at it. It chases anyone that meets its glare.
It will beat up anyone who makes it mad, even if it has to chase them until the end of the world.
When Primeape becomes furious, its blood circulation is boosted. In turn, its muscles are made even stronger. However, it also becomes much less intelligent at the same time.
It is always outrageously furious. If it gives chase, it will tenaciously track the target no matter how far.
Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it catches up.
When it becomes furious, its blood circulation becomes more robust, and its muscles are made stronger. But it also becomes much less intelligent.
It grows angry if you see its eyes and gets angrier if you run. If you beat it, it gets even madder.
It has been known to become so angry that it dies as a result. Its face looks peaceful in death, however.
Some researchers theorize that Primeape remains angry even when inside a Poké Ball.
It will never forgive opponents who have angered it. Even after it has beaten them down until they can’t move, it never ever forgives.
The blood vessels in its brain are sturdier than those of other Pokémon, so it can stay healthy despite its constant raging.
It becomes angry if it sees an opponent's eyes and gets angrier if the opponent runs. Even after it beats the opponent, it is still angry.
If approached while asleep, it may rouse just enough to fly into a groggy rage and give chase without even knowing what it's doing.
In the anime, Ash encountered a Mankey that he attempted to capture. It then stole his hat and evolved into a Primeape, but Ash managed to capture him. Later he entered the Primeape in a tournament for Fighting Pokémon so as to beat a man with a Hitmonchan and convince him to pay more attention to his family. His Primeape managed to win and Ash left it with the man to train it. Though at first Primeape seemed very aggressive towards Ash, he seemed to become very attached to his trainer, even having tears in his eyes when Ash decided to leave him to be trained.
Due to its aggressive nature and pig -like nose, Primeape is likely based on a baboon . Primeape may also be a play on the term "go ape", which means to show great anger or excitement.
Primeape may come from prime , ape , and primate .
Primeape's Japanese name, Okorizaru, literally means " angry ape ".
Concept artwork of Kantonian Growlithe.
Growlithe is a puppy like Pokémon. It has bright orange fur with black stripes. Its belly, tail, and fluff on top of its head are a cream color. There are no gender differences.
Its Hisuian form has dark orange fur. The tuft on Hisuian Growlithe's head grows into curls long enough to cover its eyes. It has a small horn on top of its head. The igneous rock components in its fur are believed to be the result of volcanic activity in its habitat.
Growlithe are naturally loyal, obedient and protective to their Trainers, and will fearlessly confront any formidable opponents. Nonetheless, if one is improperly trained, it often bites without warning or unprovoked. They can also be territorial, easily attacking ones that they deem as invaders to their turfs.
Hisuian Growlithe have lived apart from humans for a long time, thus they are unused to being around people. They are highly vigilant and tend to be seen watching over their territory in pairs. They are known to live near volcanoes.
Growlithe have a keen sense of smell, allowing them to never forget what they have smelt. However as seen in The Case of the K-9 Caper , certain substances such as gases can affect their olfactory senses which can make them uncertain.
Growlithe evolves into Arcanine if it touches a Fire Stone .
Very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space.
A Pokémon with a friendly nature. However, it will bark fiercely at anything invading its territory.
It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes.
Extremely loyal, it will fearlessly bark at any opponent to protect its own Trainer from harm.
It controls a big territory. If it detects an unknown smell, it roars loudly to force out the intruder.
Growlithe has a superb sense of smell. Once it smells anything, this Pokémon won't forget the scent, no matter what. It uses its advanced olfactory sense to determine the emotions of other living things.
Very friendly and faithful to people. It will try to repel enemies by barking and biting.
It is very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space.
Its superb sense of smell ensures that this Pokémon won't forget any scent, no matter what. It uses its sense of smell to detect the emotions of others.
A Pokémon with a loyal nature. It will remain motionless until it is given an order by its Trainer.
It's both clever and loyal, but if a stranger tries to invade its territory, it barks threateningly.
It looks cute, but when you approach another trainer's Growlithe , It will bark at you and bite.
While it’s quite friendly toward humans once it’s grown used to them, in the wild it must be quite fierce to defend its territory from Rockruff.
It has lived alongside humans since ages ago. Its bones have been found in excavations of ruins from the Stone Age.
It is a Pokémon with a loyal nature. It will remain motionless until it is given an order by its Trainer.
Hisuian Form : They patrol their territory in pairs. I believe the igneous rock components in the fur of this species are the result of volcanic activity in its habitat.
It's very friendly and faithful to people. It will try to repel enemies by barking and biting.
Due to being a canine with a slightly lion-like appearance, Growlithe is likely based on the Shisa , a traditional Ryukyuan decoration from Okinawan mythology that resembles a cross between a lion and a dog. It may also be inspired by the xiezhi/kaichi , a fire-eating dog in East Asian mythology that has the appearance of a lion and/or tiger. Its stripes and overall coloration are based on tigers.
Its association with police officers, including Officer Jenny , may act as a nod to Police dogs.
Hisuian Growlithe appears to be based on a komainu, which is also a cross between a lion and a dog. Its curly hair is reminiscent of the curled mains present on the statues. The statues are also commonly made of stone, hence the added Rock type and grayer color added to Growlithe's mane and tail. Growlithe's horn is reminiscent of the horns komainu sometimes have. The connection of the two may be a play on Growlithe's Japanese name, which is derived from the word "guardian".
Growlithe's name is derived from the words "growl", because it will growl at its enemies, and "lithe", which refers to its readily bent posture before it attacks.
Growlithe's Japanese name, Gaadi, comes from "guard" or "guardian".
Arcanine ( ウインディ , Windie ? ) ( ARE -ka-nine [1] ) is a Fire - type Pokémon introduced in Generation I . It has a Fire / Rock Hisuian form introduced in Generation VIII .
Arcanine in the anime
Arcanine is a large, bulky canine Pokémon that also possesses traits of tigers and lions. It has a distinct long dog-like muzzle with a large round black nose. Its eyes are triangular in shape, with black pupils. It has short diamond-shaped orange ears with cream colored insides. The majority of Arcanine's body is covered with bright orange fur with jagged black stripes, resembling the fur of a tiger. Its most of its head and face, and its chest, legs, are covered in light cream colored fluffy tufts of fur. It has a long puffy cream-colored tail.
In the Hisuian region, Arcanine's appearance is drastically different compared to the Kantonian variant due to the volcanic areas it lives in. Hisuian Arcanine has a more reddish-orange fur while its muzzle, mane, tail, and fur tufts covering both its ankles and elbows are dark grey. Its mane has orange streaks while its head now has three horns protruding out of it (the middle horn is taller).
Arcanine are proud and regal, with a heart full of loyalty and justice. One can simply conquer the hearts of humans and other Pokémon through a thunderous roar. They can occasionally be seen dashing across prairies; in fact, this behavior is so well known that even in times past, people have recorded images of Arcanine's majestic sprint on various scrolls.
In the anime, Arcanine has been shown to hide food in its mane and bring the hidden stash to their young.
Scorched plains, prairies and active volcanoes are usually their habitats.
Because of its regal appearance and loyal temperament, Arcanine was known by many legends to help war commanders conquer countries long ago.
They consume a significant amount of stone and soil following volcanic eruptions in order to maintain these parts of their bodies. These imposing Pokémon are surprisingly agile for their size and weight. They prance around foes in combat to mislead them into awkward positions while lunging at them with fiery teeth to further startle them. Then, once opponents overcommit, they lunge to finish them off with well-placed Fire Fangs.
Hisuian Arcanine seem to enjoy these battle dances and will rarely go for direct hits even when they are available. Both sexes participate in an elaborate mating ritual that involves running in circles, leaping, and releasing flames in time with one another. Mates judge their compatibility with one another based on how well they can stay in sync during these dances. A popular Hisuian dance in fact was inspired by Hisuian Arcanine, and the tradition survives in some part of the region to this day.
Volcanoes and surrounding lowlands, as well as mountains, are where this regional form prefers to reside in.
Arcanine's internal flame is the fuel for its amazing speed. They are one of the fastest Pokémon in the world, and it is said that it can travel up to 6200 miles in one day and night. Arcanine can also carry their trainers on their backs and scout the seven-seas in less than 3 days.
Hisuian Arcanine are said to have fangs that are cloaked in blazing flames for them to snap their foes. Despite being a bit bulky in both size and weight, Hisuian Arcanine are surprisingly agile and quick footed; they use these traits to lure away opponents.
Arcanine evolves from Growlithe if it touches a Fire Stone .
A POKéMON that has been admired since the past for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.
A legendary POKéMON in China. Many people are charmed by its grace and beauty while running.
This legendary Chinese POKEMON is considered magnificent. Many people are enchanted by its grand mane.
Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can't help but grovel before it.
An ancient picture scroll shows that people were attracted to its movement as it ran through prairies.
A POKéMON that is described in Chinese legends. It is said to race at an unbelievable speed.
A POKéMON that has long been admired for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.
This fleet-footed POKéMON is said to run over 6,200 miles in a single day and night. The fire that blazes wildly within its body is its source of power.
Its proud and regal appearance has captured the hearts of people since long ago.
This legendary Chinese Pokémon is considered magnificent. Many people are enchanted by its grand mane.
Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can’t help but grovel before it.
The sight of it running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night has captivated many people.
A Pokémon that has long been admired for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings.
Arcanine is known for its high speed. It is said to be capable of running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night. The fire that blazes wildly within this Pokémon’s body is its source of power.
Overflowing with beauty and majesty, this strong Pokémon appears in ancient Eastern folklore.
The fire burning inside its body serves as the energy to fuel it as it runs great distances. It appears in many legends.
Legends tell of its fighting alongside a general and conquering a whole country.
There are so many old tales about them that they’re called legendary Pokémon, but there are way more of them around than you’d expect.
A legendary Pokémon in the East. Many people are charmed by the grace and beauty of its running.
Hisuian Form : Snaps at its foes with fangs cloaked in blazing flame. Despite its bulk, it deftly feints every which way, leading opponents on a deceptively merry chase as it all but dances around them.
An ancient picture scroll shows that people were captivated by its movement as it ran through prairies.
Due to its slightly lion-like appearance, Arcanine is likely based on the Shisa , a traditional Ryukyuan decoration from Okinawan mythology that resembles a cross between a lion and a dog. It may also be inspired by the xiezhi/kaichi , a fire-eating dog in East Asian mythology that has the appearance of a lion. Another possible candidate for Arcanine's origins is the Andrewsarchus, the largest carnivorous land mammal in prehistory. Its stripes and overall coloration are based on tigers.
Hisuian Arcanine appears to be based on a komainu , which is also a cross between a lion and a dog. Its curly hair is reminiscent of the curled mains present on the statues. The statues are also commonly made of stone, hence the added Rock type. Arcanine's horns are reminiscent of the horns komainu sometimes have. Its darker fur also resembles puffs of black smoke.
Its English name, Arcanine, comes from a combination of the words "arcane", meaning ancient and mysterious, and "canine".
It is so soft its organs are actually visible. It also has trouble walking on its feet due to its lack of arms which causes it to be unbalanced. The swirl on its belly is its internal organs showing through. If the swirl is tinged, that means it's affected by some disease.
Poliwag will have one of two abilities; either Damp where the foe is unable to use Self-Destruct or Explosion , or Water Absorb where Water attacks heal 1/4 of Poliwag's health. With its light blue tail, it can swim very fast. It learns attacks such Bubble and Bubble Beam , and that was presumably why it has a small mouth. The mouth actually acts like a Suction cup to cling onto rocks with fats flowing water, much like the Lileep line's roots.
Poliwag evolves into Poliwhirl starting at level 25 and then evolves into either Poliwrath if it touches a Water Stone or Politoed if traded while holding a King's Rock .
Its newly grown legs prevent it from walking well. It appears to prefer swimming over walking.
The direction of the spiral on the belly differs by area. It is more adept at swimming than walking.
Because it is inept at walking on its newly grown legs, it always swims around in water.
The direction of its belly spiral differs by area. The equator is thought to have an effect on this.
The swirl on its belly is its insides showing through the skin. It looks clearer after it eats.
Poliwag has a very thin skin. It is possible to see the Pokémon's spiral innards right through the skin. Despite its thinness, however, the skin is also very flexible. Even sharp fangs bounce right off it.
Its slick black skin is thin and damp. A part of its internal organs can be seen through the skin as a spiral pattern.
It is possible to see this Pokémon's spiral innards right through its thin skin. However, the skin is also very flexible. Even sharp fangs bounce right off it.
Its skin is so thin, its internal organs are visible. It has trouble walking on its newly grown feet.
The swirl on its belly is its internal organs showing through. If the swirl is tinged white, that means it's affected by some disease.
It's still not very good at walking. Its Trainers should train this Pokémon to walk every day.
Despite the danger, it wants to come up on land. So it does its best to waddle along, but when an enemy finds it, it rushes back to the water.
The direction of the swirl on their stomachs differs depending on where they live. Poliwag aficionados can tell them apart at a glance.
For Poliwag, swimming is easier than walking. The swirl pattern on its belly is actually part of the Pokémon's innards showing through the skin.
In rivers with fast-flowing water, this Pokémon will cling to a rock by using its thick lips, which act like a suction cup.
The swirl on its belly is its insides showing through the skin. It appears more clearly after Poliwag eats.
Its legs are newly grown, and it can't walk very well. It seems to prefer swimming through the water instead.
Misty caught a Poliwag in the Orange Islands .
Poliwag is based on a tadpole . Its spiral stomach pattern is based off the transparent underbellies of tadpoles where their winding intestines are visible.
Poliwag may come from polliwog and wag (referring to its long tail). The word "polliwog" means "head wiggle", so the name can be interpreted as Poliwag wiggling around both its head and tail.
Poliwrath appears to have a blue round shaped body with a white belly and a black spiral on it. It also appears to have white fists and its pupil grow smaller than its pre-evolutions.
Poliwrath is an adept swimmer and can outspeed even the fastest of human swimmers. However, it prefers to inhabit dry land rather than spending most of its life in aquatic habitats.
Its muscle development is incredibly strong that Poliwrath itself can swim the entire Pacific Ocean without resting.
In the Alolan Region, Poliwrath are well known as expert breast stroke swimmers. Children often imitate how Poliwrath swims.
Poliwrath's body is all solid muscle. It is able to swim through frigid waters and smash through ice floes with its powerful arms. A skilled swimmer and martial artist, Poliwrath uses its strong arms to dish out powerful attacks.
Poliwrath may have the abilities Water Absorb or Damp or the hidden ability Swift Swim . Water Absorb restores a little of Poliwrath's HP when hit by a Water -type move instead of taking damage. While Damp prevents the use of Self-Destruct or Explosion . Swift Swim raises Poliwrath's speed in the rain.
Poliwrath evolves from Poliwhirl if it touches a Water Stone and is one of the final evolutions of Poliwag , the other being Politoed .
A graradept at both the front crawl and breaststroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers.
Swims powerfully using all the muscles in its body. It can even overtake champion swimmers.
This strong and skilled swimmer is even capable of crossing the Pacific Ocean just by kicking.
Although an energetic, skilled swimmer that uses all of its muscles, it lives on dry land.
It can use its well-developed arms and legs to run on the surface of the water for a split second.
Poliwrath's highly developed, brawny muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. It is so tirelessly strong, this Pokémon can swim back and forth across the Pacific Ocean without effort.
An adept swimmer, it knows the front crawl, butterfly, and more. It is faster than the best human swimmers.
A swimmer adept at both the front crawl and breaststroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers.
Its highly developed muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. This Pokémon can swim back and forth across the Pacific Ocean without effort.
With its extremely tough muscles, it can keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting.
Poliwrath's highly developed, brawny muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. It is so tirelessly strong, this Pokémon can swim back and forth across the ocean without effort.
Poliwrath in the Alola region are strong swimmers that use the breaststroke. Many children learn how to swim by imitating Poliwrath.
Its percentage of body fat is nearly zero. Its body is entirely muscle, which makes it heavy and forces its swimming prowess to develop.
It’s quite a gifted swimmer, even among Water-type Pokémon, but it normally spends its time on land.
The muscles it has developed through swimming are thick and powerful. When it lands a square punch, it can turn huge boulders to dust.
Swims powerfully using all the muscles in its body. It can even overtake world-class swimmers.
Its body is solid muscle. When swimming through cold seas, Poliwrath uses its impressive arms to smash through drift ice and plow forward.
Poliwrath is skilled at both swimming and martial arts. It uses its well-trained arms to dish out powerful punches.
With its extremely tough muscles, it could keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting.
Although it's skilled in a style of dynamic swimming that uses all its muscles, for some reason it lives on dry land.
Tad had a Poliwrath appearing in Charizard Chills where it fought Ash's Charizard . A Poliwrath also appeared in Outrageous Fortunes under the ownership by Delany. Chuck had a Poliwrath in Machoke, Machoke Man! . In The Battling Eevee Brothers , a Poliwrath appeared. A Poliwrath also appears in the Pokémon Summer Academy in One Team, Two Team, Red Team, Blue Team! and Hook, Line and Stinker respectively.
In the Pokémon Adventures Manga, Red has a Poliwrath that evolved from Poliwhirl. It is also Red's first Pokémon.
Poliwrath appears to be based off a frog . Its stomach pattern being a swirl may be a reference to how tadpoles have a transparent underbelly, showing their spiraling intestines. Its fighting -type may reference how frogs have much more muscle than tadpoles and are able to defend themselves better once they are done metamorphosing.
Poliwrath's name comes from 'polliwog' and 'wrath'.
Abra is a golden-brown, human-like fox Pokémon with three fingers and toes on both arms and legs. Its eyes are mostly closed because of its tendency to sleep a lot. The shoulders are brown. Abra has a long tail with one brown stripe. Feet have 3 sharp claws, 2 on the front and 1 on the heel. Abra stands 2'11" and has the same physical appearance, no matter what its gender is. It has slightly pointed ears and its body looks slightly like it has a type of body armour on its top half.
Since Abra sleep so much, they expend very little energy and don't eat much. They will teleport into treetops when awaken to easily pick Berries. Abra sleep through most of the day, but should not be awoken unless in immediate danger.
It has been known to sleep 18 hours a day, as it needs its rest for its telekinetic abilities. Abra also can teleport away from danger by the means of using the move Teleport . It can even perform this technique while asleep. If it doesn't get enough sleep, its powers fade.
Abra evolves into Kadabra starting at level 16 and then evolves into Alakazam if traded .
Using its ability to read minds, it will sense impending danger and teleport to safety.
Sleeps 18 hours a day. If it senses danger, it will teleport itself to safety even as it sleeps.
It senses impending attacks and teleports away to safety before the actual attacks can strike.
If it decides to teleport randomly, it creates the illusion that it has created copies of itself.
It hypnotizes itself so that it can teleport away when it senses danger, even if it is asleep.
Abra sleeps for eighteen hours a day. However, it can sense the presence of foes even while it is sleeping. In such a situation, this Pokémon immediately teleports to safety.
Abra needs to sleep for eighteen hours a day. If it doesn't, this Pokémon loses its ability to use telekinetic powers. If it is attacked, Abra escapes using Teleport while it is still sleeping.
It sleeps for 18 hours a day. It uses a variety of extrasensory powers even while asleep.
Using its ability to read minds, it will sense impending danger and Teleport to safety.
A Pokémon that sleeps 18 hours a day. Observation revealed that it uses Teleport to change its location once every hour.
It sleeps for 18 hours a day. Even when awake, it teleports itself while remaining seated.
Even while asleep, it maintains a telepathic radar. It teleports when it is threatened.
Use of its psychic powers leaves its brain so tired that it may sleep as long as 1 day and 18 hours.
Using its psychic power is such a strain on its brain that it needs to sleep for 18 hours a day.
It sleeps 18 hours a day. Even while sleeping, it will teleport itself to treetops and pick and eat berries there.
It can teleport itself to safety while it's asleep, but when it wakes, it doesn't know where it is, so it panics.
It uses various psychic powers even while it’s sleeping, so you can’t tell whether or not it’s awake.
It can read others’ minds and will teleport away when danger approaches. You must clear your mind if you want to catch it.
This Pokémon uses its psychic powers while it sleeps. The contents of Abra's dreams affect the powers that the Pokémon wields.
Abra can teleport in its sleep. Apparently the more deeply Abra sleeps, the farther its teleportations go.
Spends 18 hours of the day sleeping. Even while asleep, Abra can control its psychic powers—should danger approach, the Pokémon will simply teleport away.
Abra's appearance seems to take inspiration from mammalian animals associated with magic, possibly cats or goats . Its human-like appearance may also make it similar to a psychic prodigy.
Abra's nomenclature along with his evolutions are based on a magician's famous magic words: " Abra , Kadabra , and Alakazam .
Kadabra has a similar anatomy to Abra; however, there are some differences. Kadabra holds a metal spoon forged by its psychic powers. Also, Kadabra's tail is large and curly. It also has a "mustache". The mustache is larger on male Kadabra's. Kadabra's stomach has three red stripes, while its forehead has a five-pointed red star.
Kadabra remain floating while they sleep, using their flexible tails as pillows. Kadabra in danger may be able to perform more powerful attacks than usual.
Kadabra can have the ability Synchronize or the ability Inner Focus . It does not have a strong physical body but prefers to use its psychic powers. If this Pokémon is nearby, an eerie shadow appears on TV screens. Seeing the shadow is said to bring bad luck. It is also said that to control this Pokémon in the most beneficial way you should have psychic powers, like the trainer Sabrina . When Kadabra is around, its strong psychic powers can sometimes interfere with electronics like computer monitors or televisions.
Kadabra evolves from Abra starting at level 16 and evolves into Alakazam if traded .
It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close by.
Many odd things happen if this Pokémon is close by. For example, it makes clocks run backwards.
It possesses strong spiritual power. The more danger it faces, the stronger its psychic power.
If it uses its abilities, it emits special alpha waves that cause machines to malfunction.
When it closes its eyes, twice as many alpha particles come out of the surface of its body.
Kadabra emits a peculiar alpha wave if it develops a headache. Only those people with a particularly strong psyche can hope to become a Trainer of this Pokémon.
Kadabra holds a silver spoon in its hand. The spoon is used to amplify the alpha waves in its brain. Without the spoon, the Pokémon is said to be limited to half the usual amount of its telekinetic powers.
It happened one morning - a boy with extrasensory powers awoke in bed transformed into Kadabra.
It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close.
It is rumored that a boy with psychic abilities suddenly transformed into Kadabra while he was assisting research into extrasensory powers.
If one is nearby, an eerie shadow appears on TV screens. Seeing the shadow is said to bring bad luck.
When it uses its psychic power, it emits strong alpha waves that can ruin precision devices.
It stares at its silver spoon to focus its mind. It emits more alpha waves while doing so.
A theory exists that his Pokémon was a young boy who couldn't control his psychic powers and ended up transformed into this Pokémon.
Kadabra's presence infest televisions and monitors with creepy shadows that bring bad luck.
It stares at a silver spoon to amplify its psychic powers before it lets loose. Apparently, gold spoons are no good.
It possesses strong mental capabilities, but its psychic powers are halved when it’s not holding a silver spoon.
Many odd things happen if this Pokémon is close by. For example, it makes clocks run backward.
Using its psychic power, Kadabra levitates as it sleeps. It uses its springy tail as a pillow.
This Pokémon's telekinesis is immensely powerful. To prepare for evolution, Kadabra stores up psychic energy in the star on its forehead.
When it uses its psychic power, it emits strong alpha waves that can ruin precision instruments.
There are rumors that a child with mystical powers became a Kadabra; however, this remains unverified. I suspect that the spoon Kadabra holds enhances its brain waves.
Sabrina has a Kadabra in the anime that evolved from an Abra in TB022: Abra and the Psychic Showdown . Kadabra also appears in Fear Factor Phony in a mining colony along with many other Psychic -types.
According to a court case in 1999, a man named Uri Geller claimed that the Pokémon Kadabra was an unauthorized parody of him. He stated that the Pokémon had many similarities to him, including his and Kadabra's ability to "bend spoons with their minds" due to having psychic powers, Kadabra's Japanese name (Yungeraa) which sounds like a corruption of his name, and even the fact that Kadabra's katakana (ユンゲラー) was very similar to Uri Geller's transliteration into katakana (ユリゲラー). He also stated that the star on Kadabra's head and the zigzags on its abdomen were antisemitic (discriminatory against Jewish people) as the star could be seen as a reference to the Stars of David worn by Jewish prisoners in Nazi concentration camps and the zigzags interpreted as being references to the Waffen-SS (the Nazi military, which used similar lightning bolt symbols). As a result, Uri sued Nintendo for $60 million in court.
Due to this lawsuit, it has led to Kadabra not appearing as a card since Skyridge in 2003 and not appearing in the anime since 2005 (except for a small cameo in 2012's " Kyurem vs. the Sword of Justice "). According to Masamitsu Hidaka in 2003, he stated that any Kadabra card used in the TCG was banned and that it would not come back unless an agreement was settled, which was no time soon.
However, 20 years after the initial lawsuit, in November 2020, Uri Geller contacted Nintendo in order to lift the ban on TCG cards that featured Kadabra after receiving many e-mails about the topic from fans of the series as well as issuing an apology on Twitter . Any card featuring Kadabra or any appearance by Kadabra in the anime has yet to appear.
Kadabra appears to be based off a fox or goat with elements of spoon-benders and stage magicians . The star and zigzags on its head and stomach respectively are likely references to Zener cards , cards with simple shapes on them (including a star and three zigzags) sometimes used to test for ESP by those who believe in it (the person being tested tries to guess which shape is on the card the tester is holding without looking at the side that has the shape).
Kadabra comes from the stage incantation "Abracadabra, Alakazam".
Concept artwork of Alakazam.
Alakazam is a human-like Pokémon . It is colored yellow and brown, and it has some fox-like features. It is also shown carrying two spoons, which it uses to fight with strong, telekinetic powers. Like Kadabra , Alakazam's gender can be identified by the length of its mustache.
Alakazam are highly intelligent Pokémon they exude so much psychic energy from their brains that those nearby may develop headaches. Their spoons are thought to have been created purely of this energy, though this has not been proven. An Alakazam can recognize its own spoons from another's, leading some to believe each pair is completely unique. These Pokémon will gift one of their spoons as a sign of utmost affection, and according to folklore anything eaten with a gifted spoon will taste sublime. In battle, Alakazam use their intellects to their advantage. They quickly calculate variables like type advantages, chance of missing, and so on. These factors make Alakazam popular choices for Psychic-type Pokémon amongst trainers, using their great minds to strategize in battles.
Alakazam will have the same ability it had when it was a Kadabra . Synchronize transfers a status effect to an opponent if Alakazam gets a status effect. Inner Focus prevents Alakazam from flinching. Alakazam is known as one of the smartest Pokémon . It has an IQ of 5,000 and has the brain of a supercomputer. It can remember every battle it has ever fought in.
Alakazam evolves from Kadabra if traded and is the final evolution of Abra . Alakazam can Mega Evolve into Mega Alakazam using its Alakazite .
Its brain can outperform a super-computer. Its intelligence quotient is said to be 5,000.
A Pokémon that can memorize anything. It never forgets what it learns -- that's why this Pokémon is smart.
Closing both its eyes heightens all its other senses. This enables it to use its abilities to their extremes.
Its brain cells multiply continually until it dies. As a result, it remembers everything.
It has an IQ of 5000. It calculates many things in order to gain the edge in every battle.
Alakazam's brain continually grows, making its head far too heavy to support with its neck. This Pokémon holds its head up using its psychokinetic power instead.
Alakazam's brain continually grows, infinitely multiplying brain cells. This amazing brain gives this Pokémon an astoundingly high IQ of 5,000. It has a thorough memory of everything that has occurred in the world.
It does not like physical attacks very much. Instead, it freely uses extra-sensory powers to defeat foes.
Its brain can outperform a supercomputer. Its IQ (intelligence quotient) is said to be around 5,000.
While it has strong psychic abilities and high intelligence, an Alakazam's muscles are very weak. It uses psychic power to move its body.
Its superb memory lets it recall everything it has experienced from birth. Its IQ exceeds 5,000.
Its highly developed brain is on par with a supercomputer. It can use all forms of psychic abilities.
The spoons clutched in its hands are said to have been created by its psychic powers.
Alakazam's brain continually grows, making its head far to heavy to support with its neck. This Pokémon holds its head up using its psychokinetic power instead.
It is said to have an IQ of approximately 5,000. Its overflowing psychokinetic powers causes headaches to anyone nearby. Mega Evolution : As a result in Mega Evolution, its power has been entirely converted into psychic energy, and it has lost all strength in its muscles.
Its brain cells continue to increase in number until its death. The older the Alakazam, the larger the head. Mega Evolution : Its hidden psychic power has been unleashed. A glance at someone gives it knowledge of the course of that person's life, from birth to death.
Alakazam uses its psychic powers to make the spoons it carries. Each spoon is an original that there’s only one of in the whole world. Mega Evolution : It sends out psychic power from the red organ on its forehead to foresee its opponents’ every move.
If it trusts someone deeply, it will let them have one of its spoons. Anything you eat with that spoon is apparently delicious. Mega Evolution : Having traded away its muscles, Alakazam’s true power has been unleashed. With its psychic powers, it can foresee all things.
A Pokémon that can memorize anything. It never forgets what it learns—that's why this Pokémon is smart. Mega Evolution: It's adept at precognition. When attacks completely miss Alakazam, that's because it's seeing the future.
It has an incredibly high level of intelligence. Some say that Alakazam remembers everything that ever happens to it, from birth till death.
Alakazam wields potent psychic powers. It's said that this Pokémon used these powers to create the spoons it holds.
The longer Alakazam lives, the larger and heavier its head becomes. Our tests have shown that the strength of its psychic powers correlates positively to the weight of its head.
Its brain cells multiply continually until it dies. As a result, it remembers everything. Mega Evolution : Alakazam has traded away its muscles, unleashing its true power. With its psychic powers, it can foresee all things.
Alakazam is likely based on spoonbenders , wizards that can use telekinesis to bend spoons. Its pointy ears and long whiskers appear to have traits of foxes .
Mega Alakazam are more inclined to hydromancers and wizards, as well as having elements of sādhu.
Alakazam is based on a magician's famous magic words: " Abra , Kadabra , and Alakazam ". Its Japanese name, Foodin , is likely a "Japanised" version of the famous magician Harry Houdini , as the Japanese do not differentiate between fu and hu .
Machop is a bluish-gray Pokémon with large arm muscles. It has three brown ridges on its head, rib-like protrusions on its sides, has a tail, and resembles a human child.
Machop can have the abilities Guts and No Guard . Guts increases Machop's attack when it has a status effect. No Guard allows both the opponent's and Machop's attacks to hit more often. Machop is very strong and is capable of mastering many types of martial arts.
Machop usually train in large, open mountains with boulders and trees as sources, they train to master any type of martial art, this makes them strong and powerful.
Machop evolves into Machoke starting at level 28 and then evolves into Machamp if traded .
Max Raid Battle : Dusty Bowl , North Lake Miloch , Rolling Fields , South Lake Miloch, Stony Wilderness
Loves to build its muscles. It trains in all styles of martial arts to become even stronger.
Very powerful in spite of its small size. Its mastery of many types of martial arts makes it very tough.
Always brimming with power, it passes time by lifting boulders. Doing so makes it even stronger.
It loves to work out and build its muscles. It is never satisfied, even if it trains hard all day long.
It trains by lifting rocks in the mountains. It can even pick up a Graveler with ease.
Machop's muscles are special - they never get sore no matter how much they are used in exercise. This Pokémon has sufficient power to hurl a hundred adult humans.
Machop exercises by hefting around a Graveler as if it were a barbell. There are some Machop that travel the world in a quest to master all kinds of martial arts.
Its whole body is composed of muscles. Even though it's the size of a human child, it can hurl 100 grown-ups.
It continually undertakes strenuous training to master all forms of martial arts. Its strength lets it easily hoist a sumo wrestler onto its shoulders.
It hefts a Graveler repeatedly to strengthen its entire body. It uses every type of martial arts.
Its muscles never cramp however much it trains. It lives in the mountains away from humans.
Though small in stature, it is powerful enough to easily heft and throw a number of Geodude at once.
Machop's muscles are special-they never get sore no matter how much they are used in exercise. This Pokémon has sufficient power to hurl a hundred adult humans.
It loves working out. As it gazes at its muscles, which continue to swell day by day, it becomes more and more dedicated to its training.
With its superhuman strength, it's able to throw a hundred people all at the same time. Its strength comes from lifting Graveler every day.
Once this Pokémon has gained enough confidence and muscle from training with its friends, it challenges Makuhita to a battle.
It likes food that’s highly nutritious because its instincts drive it to build muscle efficiently.
Though as small as a child, it has strength enough to easily throw a well-built adult. Striving to become ever stronger, Machop trains by carrying a Graveler on its shoulders.
Bea's Machop.
Machop seems to resemble a bodybuilder while also having reptilian attributes reminiscent of lizards . As shown by its name, its reptilian features may relate to the extinct Moschops which is possibly further evidenced by its head frills, as Moschops were theorized to partake in headbutting as a form of fighting due to their thick skulls.
Machop may come from macho (someone overly masculine), chop , and possibly Moschops .
Concept artwork of Machamp for Pokémon: Twilight Wings .
Machamp is a large, four-armed humanoid Pokémon. Machamp's physical appearance is similar to Machoke's, except without the snout, red lines on its arms, and the belt. It is bluish-gray in color unlike its pre-evolution, Machoke, which is purple in color.
Machamp are really fierce and strong, as they are able to knock a foe over the horizon, they can also throw over 1,000 punches in 2 seconds, so Machamp are really deadly. Machamp love challenges, and its fighting intensity will increase when fighting against strong opponents.
Using its heavy muscles, it is capable of punching its opponent clear over the horizon. One arm alone is said to be able to move mountains, Using all four arms it releases powerful punches. It swings its arms to rock the opponent with punches and chops from all angles. It uses four arms to pin its opponent's limbs and tosses them. If Machamp tries to do delicate work, its arms get tangled. It tends to leap into action before thinking. It is known to have mastered every possible form of Martial Arts. It punches with its four arms then builds up speed within that it can launch 1,000 punches in two seconds.
Machamp evolves from Machoke if traded and is the final evolution of Machop . Machamp can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Machamp .
Max Raid Battle : Dusty Bowl , North Lake Miloch , Rolling Fields , South Lake Miloch , Stony Wilderness Max Raid Battle : Stony Wilderness
Using its heavy muscles, it throws powerful punches that can send the victim clear over the horizon.
One arm alone can move mountains. Using all four arms, this Pokémon fires off awesome punches.
It quickly swings its four arms to rock its opponents with ceaseless punches and chops from all angles.
It uses its four powerful arms to pin the limbs of its foe, then throws the victim over the horizon.
With four arms that react more quickly than it can think, it can execute many punches at once.
Machamp has the power to hurl anything aside. However, trying to do any work requiring care and dexterity causes its arms to get tangled. This Pokémon tends to leap into action before it thinks.
Machamp is known as the Pokémon that has mastered every kind of martial arts. If it grabs hold of the foe with its four arms, the battle is all but over. The hapless foe is thrown far over the horizon.
Its four ruggedly developed arms can launch a flurry of 1,000 punches in just two seconds.
It is impossible to defend against punches and chops doled out by its four arms. Its fighting spirit flares up when it faces a tough opponent.
It punches with its four arms at blinding speed. It can launch 1,000 punches in two seconds.
It can knock a train flying with a punch. However, it is terrible at delicate work using its fingers.
Its four muscled arms slam foes with powerful punches and chops at blinding speed.
It unleashes megaton-level punches that send opponents flying clear over the horizon.
It can lift heavy loads with the greatest of ease. It can even heft dump trucks. But its clumsy fingers prevent it from doing any precision work.
It grasps its opponents with its four arms and twists them up in an intricate hold. People call it “the Machamp special.”
With four arms, it can attack and defend simultaneously. It’s said to have mastered every martial art in the world.
It quickly swings its four arms to rock its opponents with ceaseless punches and chops from all angles. Gigantamax Form : The Gigantamax energy coursing through its arms makes its punches hit as hard as bomb blasts.
With four arms that react more quickly than it can think, it can execute many punches at once. Gigantamax Form : One of these Pokémon once used its immeasurable strength to lift a large ship that was in trouble. It then carried the ship to port.
In close combat, its four arms afford it offensive and defensive supremacy. In but a blink, this valiant Pokémon can overwhelm its foes with more than 1,000 blows from its fists.
Machamp has mainly appeared under the ownership of Bea .
Machamp appears to be based off a bodybuilder and an Asura . The head crest and large lips may also be inspired by the Kinnikuman series, or more notably in the west by its sequel, Ultimate Muscle .
Gigantamax Machamp resembles the common depiction of the giants in the Ultra series, especially with the eyes and head crest.
Machamp is a mix of macho (Spanish for masculine) and champ .
Concept artwork of Bellsprout.
Bellsprout is a plant-like Pokémon resembling a pitcher plant. The body is a thin brown root and stem system with secondary roots making up Bellsprout's legs. It has two leaves on each side of its body. Its head is yellow and shaped like a bulb while the tip of its mouth is colored pink, resembling lips.
All Bellsprout have the ability Chlorophyll , which increases Bellsprout's Speed when it is sunny. It is said to ensnare its prey in its vines and devour it, and can also spit a highly corrosive fluid that can melt even iron. This Pokémon prefers hot and humid environments, since it can absorb more moisture from the ground by planting its root-like feet. In battle, Bellsprout can take advantage of its flexibility to bend and sway its way out of the range of its opponent's attacks, no matter how powerful they may be. It is quick capturing its prey with its vines.
Bellsprout evolves into Weepinbell starting at level 21 and then evolves into Victreebel if it touches a Leaf Stone .
A carnivorous Pokémon that traps and eats bugs. It appears to use its root feet to replenish moisture.
Prefers hot and humid places. It ensnares tiny insects with its vines and devours them.
Even though its body is extremely skinny, it is blindingly fast when catching its prey.
It plants its feet deep underground to replenish water. It can't escape its enemy while it's rooted.
If it notices anything that moves, it immediately flings its vine at the object.
A Bellsprout's thin and flexible body lets it bend and sway to avoid any attack, however strong it may be. From its mouth, it leaks a fluid that melts even iron.
Its bud looks like a human face. Because of the bud, it is rumored to be a type of legendary mandrake plant.
It prefers hot and humid environments. It is quick at capturing prey with its vines.
Bellsprout's thin and flexible body lets it bend and sway to avoid any attack, however strong it may be. From its mouth, this Pokémon spits a corrosive fluid that melts even iron.
Prefers hot and humid places. It ensnares tiny bugs with its vines and devours them.
No matter what Bellsprout is doing, if it detects movement nearby, it will immediately react by reaching out with its thin vines.
It plants its feet deep underground to rehydrate itself. While doing so, it's unable to run away if it's attacked.
Bellsprout has appeared numerous times in the anime series, most notably in " The Fourth Round Rumble ", where Ash battled one during the Indigo League .
Bellsprout is likely based on a pitcher plant, a carnivorous plant that eats bugs once they fly into its "mouth".
Bellsprout comes from bell (referred to the shape of its head) and sprout .
Concept artwork of Victreebel.
Victreebel's body greatly resembles its pre-evolution Weepinbell , having a yellow bulbous head with dark green spots. It also sports two eyes close to its large mouth, which has a pink tip that resembles lips. It has two green leaves at the sides of its body. Inside its mouth are two fangs. A brown vine is also connected to the back of its body which sports a yellow bulb on one end and a large leaf covering its mouth on the other.
Mega Victreebel lost its ability to lure in prey with scent and now relies on brute force to take down its target via powerful body tackles.
Victreebel lure their prey in by emitting a sweet scent. When the Pokémon goes inside Victreebel's mouth, it is swallowed whole.
Mega Victreebel's acid is greatly enhanced and is strong enough to melt steel and concrete. Because of the excess amount of acid, Mega Victreebel has to wrap its neck tight to prevent the acid from pouring out. The scent Mega Victreebel creates now can cause dizziness to anyone nearby.
Victreebel evolves from Weepinbell if it touches a Leaf Stone and is the final evolution of Bellsprout . Victreebel can Mega Evolve into Mega Victreebel using its Victreebelite .
Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there.
Lures prey with the sweet aroma of honey. Swallowed whole, the prey is melted in a day, bones and all.
Acid that has dissolved many prey becomes sweeter, making it even more effective at attracting prey.
This horrifying plant Pokémon attracts prey with aromatic honey, then melts them in its mouth.
Once ingested into this Pokémon's body, even the hardest object will melt into nothing.
Victreebel has a long vine that extends from its head. This vine is waved and flicked about as if it were an animal to attract prey. When an unsuspecting prey draws near, this Pokémon swallows it whole.
Lures prey into its mouth with a honeylike aroma. The helpless prey is melted with a dissolving fluid.
The long vine extending from its head is waved about as if it were a living thing to attract prey. When an unsuspecting victim approaches, it is swallowed whole.
It pools in its mouth a fluid with a honeylike scent, which is really an acid that dissolves anything.
Lures prey with the sweet aroma of honey. Swallowed whole, the prey is dissolved in a day, bones and all.
In its mouth, it pools a fragrant nectar-like fluid. The fluid is really an acid that dissolves anything.
It lures prey into its mouth with a nectar-like aroma. The helpless prey is melted with a dissolving fluid.
After dissolving many prey, this Pokémon's acid becomes sweeter. This makes it even easier to attract more prey.
Once taken into Victreebel's body, even the hardest object will be melted into nothing by the Pokémon's acid. Mega Evolution : The volume of this Pokémon's acid has increased due to Mega Evolution, filling its mouth. If it's not careful, the acid will overflow and spill out.
James' Victreebel.
James owned a Victreebel that evolved from a Weepinbell he previously owned. However, it would constantly try to eat him whenever he used it in battle.
Victreebel is likely based on carnivorous pitcher plants. It also has a similar shape to a human stomach.
Victreebel may comes from the words victory , tree , and bell .
Tentacool is an aquatic Pokémon based on the box jellyfish . Tentacool have two long tentacles that extend from the base of its large, blue head. There are three red gems on this Pokémon's head: two on the sides of its head and one on its forehead.
It drifts aimlessly wherever the ocean currents take it, sometimes ending up in shallow waters where it may be accidentally caught in fishing lines. Tentacool may also end up stuck on beaches when low tide comes; since its body is largely composed of water, it will shrivel up, risking death from dehydration if it stays out of the sea for too long. Tentacool has two main weapons. At the tips of its tentacles are toxic feelers, which it uses to stab anything it touches with stinging acid. Due to its excellent camouflage in the water, Tentacool can often remain undetected by swimmers right up to the moment it stings them. Tentacool's gelatinous, watery body can also absorb sunlight and refract it within, producing beam energy it shoots from its crystal-like eyes.
Tentacool can have the ability Clear Body or the ability Liquid Ooze . Clear Body prevents the opponent from lowering Tentacool's stats. Liquid Ooze damages any opponent who attempts to drain Tentacool's HP. Its body is composed almost entirely of water. It also shoots strange beams from its crystals on its head.
Tentacool evolves into Tentacruel starting at level 30.
Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by its stinging acid.
It can sometimes be found all dry and shriveled up on a beach. Toss it back into the sea to revive it.
When the tide goes out, dehydrated Tentacool remains can be found washed up on the shore.
It drifts aimlessly in waves. Very difficult to see in water, it may not be noticed until it stings.
As it floats along on the waves, it uses its toxic feelers to stab anything it touches.
Tentacool's body is largely composed of water. If it is removed from the sea, it dries up like parchment. If this Pokémon happens to become dehydrated, put it back into the sea.
Tentacool absorbs sunlight and refracts it using water inside its body to convert it into beam energy. This Pokémon shoots beams from its crystal-like eyes.
Its eyes are as transparent as crystals. From them, it shoots mysterious beams of light.
Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by their stingers.
Its body is almost entirely composed of water. It ensnares its foe with its two long tentacles, then stabs with the poison stingers at their tips.
Its body is virtually composed of water. It shoots strange beams from its crystal-like eyes.
It drifts in sea currents. Countless fishermen are hurt by its poison stingers.
Because its body is almost entirely composed of water, it shrivels up if it is washed ashore.
Tentacool absorbs sunlight and refracts it using water inside its body to convert it into beam energy. This Pokémon shoots beams from the small round organ above its eyes.
They can be found lying dehydrated on beaches, but they are often still alive. When soaked in water, they will revive.
It drifts in shallow seas, such as the areas near beaches. If you get bitten or stabbed by its toxic tentacles, rush to the hospital.
It drifts through the sea searching for prey. Its poisonous tentacles break off sometimes, but after a while, they grow back.
Its body is 99% water. The remaining 1% contains the organ that makes its poison.
Tentacool is not a particularly strong swimmer. It drifts across the surface of shallow seas as it searches for prey.
This Pokémon is mostly made of water. A Tentacool out in the ocean is very hard to spot, because its body blends in with the sea.
Its body is mostly composed of water. It shoots strange beams from its crystal-like eyes.
It drifts in sea currents. Countless fishers are hurt by its poison stingers.
They fire beams from the glassy, magenta orbs that resemble eyes atop their heads, and they drift in shallow seas. During low tide, they can sometimes be found on beaches, desiccated.
When the tide goes out, dehydrated Tentacool can be found left behind on the shore.
Goh's Tentacool.
Tentacool appeared with its evolution, Tentacruel on Tentacool & Tentacruel . Tentacool destroy the town until Misty stops them.
Goh owns a Tentacool that he caught in PJ008: The Sinnoh Iceberg Race! .
A Tentacool appeared in Up Close and Personable! .
Tentacool is based on a jellyfish, possibly a Box Jellyfish. It may also take inspiration from aliens as they are able to control minds and shoot beams out of the red gems atop their heads.
"Tentacool" comes from the words "tentacle" and "cool".
Its Japanese name, "Menokurage", comes from 目の敵 (menokataki, enemy), 海月 (kurage, jellyfish), and possibly "venom", "menace", and/or 面倒臭い (mendokusai, annoying, as its commonness may be considered annoying by some players).
Tentacruel has only a few differences from its pre-evolved form. It now has 14 long tentacles. It also has a beak; the mouthparts are on the front and back of Tentacruel's head, resembling blue pincers. Also, as seen in the image above, Tentacruel has two huge eyes below its head.
Tentacruel can have the ability Clear Body or the ability Liquid Ooze . Clear Body prevents the opponent from lowering any of Tentacruel's stats. Liquid Ooze damages any opponent that tries to drain Tentacruel's HP. With 80 tentacles for ensnaring victims, it prevents escape until the prey is weakened by poison.
Tentacruel evolves from Tentacool starting at level 30.
The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey.
Its 80 tentacles can stretch and contract freely. They wrap around prey and weaken it with poison.
Its 80 tentacles absorb water and stretch almost endlessly to constrict its prey and enemies.
In battle, it extends all 80 of its tentacles to entrap its opponent inside a poisonous net.
When its 80 feelers absorb water, it stretches to become like a net to entangle its prey.
Tentacruel has large red orbs on its head. The orbs glow before lashing the vicinity with a harsh ultrasonic blast. This Pokémon's outburst causes rough waves around it.
Tentacruel has tentacles that can be freely elongated and shortened at will. It ensnares prey with its tentacles and weakens the prey by dosing it with a harsh toxin. It can catch up to 80 prey at the same time.
It has 80 tentacles that move about freely. They can sting, causing poisoning and sharp, stabbing pain.
It lives in complex rock formations on the ocean floor and traps prey using its 80 tentacles. Its red orbs glow when it grows excited or agitated.
With 80 tentacles for ensnaring victims, it prevents escape until the prey is weakened by poison.
It alerts others to danger by stridently flashing the red orbs on its head.
It extends its 80 tentacles to form an encircling poisonous net that is difficult to escape.
Tentacruel has large red orbs on its head. The orbs glow before lashing the vicinity with a harsh ultrasonic blast. This Pokémon's outburst creates rough waves around it.
Normally, it has 80 poisonous tentacles. The longer one has been alive, the fewer tentacles it will have.
Although these Pokémon are rare, when a large outbreak of them occurs, all fish Pokémon disappear from the surrounding sea.
It fires off ultrasonic waves from its red orbs to weaken its prey, and then it wraps them up in its 80 tentacles.
It communicates with others of its kind by lighting up the red orbs on its head. When the orbs are blinking, it’s a warning sign.
When the red orbs on Tentacruel's head glow brightly, watch out. The Pokémon is about to fire off a burst of ultrasonic waves.
Its 80 tentacles can stretch and shrink freely. Tentacruel ensnares prey in a net of spread-out tentacles, delivering venomous stings to its catch.
It has 80 tentacles, each with a venomous tip. These tentacles are also extendible, lengthening when Tentacruel attempts to catch prey. Use caution.
On the rare occasions that large outbreaks of Tentacruel occur, all fish Pokémon disappear from the surrounding sea.
During Tentacool & Tentacruel , Team Rocket causes a Tentacruel to grow to an enormous size. Wanting revenge on the destruction of its home, it goes off to destroy everything in its path, but Misty manages to stop Tentacruel and saves the day.
Tentacruel is based on a jellyfish with elements of squid and a man o' war. It may also incorporate elements of UFOs or possibly Metroids from the Metroid series (the red spots being the nuclei).
Tentacruel is a portmanteau of "tentacle" and "cruel".
Geodude has a rock for a head, no nose, and two long arms that start with a bulging muscle and end with rock hands resembling a human's.
Concept artwork of Alolan Geodude.
Alolan Geodude are slate gray with black eyebrows and three-fingered hands (the middle, ring and pinky fingers are now one).
Geodude most frequently are found in fields and on mountains. People step or trip on them from time to time, mistaking them for rocks. Its arms are so strong that it can use them to climb mountains. Rhyperior sometimes accidentally shoot Geodude from their cannon-like arms, mistaken them as normal rocks.
The entire body of an Alolan Geodude is electrical and magnetic. Anyone who steps on a Geodude will feel a slight snap followed by a nasty jolt of electricity. Alolan Geodudes often compete in headbutting battles; the one with the strongest magnetic force will attract more iron sand.
Geodude can have the ability Rock Head or the ability Sturdy . Rock Head prevents Geodude from suffering recoil damage from using moves like Double-Edge . Sturdy causes all one-hit knockout moves to be negated.
Geodude evolves into Graveler starting at level 25 and then evolves into Golem if traded .
Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them.
Commonly found near mountain trails, etc. If you step on one by accident, it gets angry.
Most people may not notice, but a closer look should reveal that there are many Geodude around.
It uses its arms to steadily climb steep mountain paths. It swings its fists around if angered.
Proud of their sturdy bodies, they bash against each other in a contest to prove whose is harder.
The longer a Geodude lives, the more its edges are chipped and worn away, making it more rounded in appearance. However, this Pokémon's heart will remain hard, craggy, and rough always.
When Geodude sleeps deeply, it buries itself halfway into the ground. It will not awaken even if hikers step on it unwittingly. In the morning, this Pokémon rolls downhill in search of food.
Its round form makes it easy to pick up. Some people have used them to hurl at each other in a snowball fight.
It climbs mountain paths using only the power of its arms. Because they look just like boulders lining paths, hikers may step on them without noticing.
Many live on mountain trails and remain half buried while keeping an eye on climbers.
It is impossible to distinguish from rocks. It slams against others in contests of hardness.
At rest, it looks just like a rock. Carelessly stepping on it will make it swing its fists angrily.
Kantonian Form : Its round body makes it easy to pick up, but it is hard and heavy. It's dangerous to play with them as if they were snowballs. Alolan Form : Its body is a magnetic stone. Iron sand attaches firmly to the portions of its body that are particularly magnetic.
Kantonian Form : There are plenty of them to be found along any road. A scholar with too much free time once counted a hundred of them along a single route. Alolan Form : If you accidentally step on a Geodude sleeping on the ground, you'll hear a crunching sound and feel a shock ripple through your entire body.
Kantonian Form : Geodude that have lived a long life have had all their edges smoothed out until they’re totally round. They also have a calm, quiet disposition. Alolan Form : If you mistake it for a rock and step on it, it will headbutt you in anger. In addition to the pain, it will also zap you with a shock.
Kantonian Form : It uses both hands to climb precipitous cliffs. People who see it in action have been known to take up bouldering. Alolan Form : Geodude compete against each other with headbutts. The iron sand on their heads will stick to whichever one has stronger magnetism.
Kantonian Form : Commonly found near mountain trails and the like. If you step on one by accident, it gets angry. Alolan Form : Its stone head is imbued with electricity and magnetism. If you carelessly step on one, you'll be in for a painful shock.
Many live on mountain trails and remain half-buried while keeping an eye on climbers.
It is impossible to distinguish from rocks. It slams against others in contests of toughness.
Makes its home in mountainous regions, using its arms to climb along harsh mountain roads. Can be troublesome-carelessly kicking one will cause it to fly into a rage and chase after you.
Kantonian Form : At rest, it looks just like a rock. Carelessly stepping on it will make it swing its fists angrily. Alolan Form : Its body is a magnetic stone. Iron sand attaches firmly to the portions of its body that are particularly magnetic.
Kantonian Form : Most people may not notice, but a closer look should reveal that there are many Geodude around. Alolan Form : If you step on a Geodude sleeping on the ground, you’ll hear a zapping sound and feel a tingling shock throughout your entire body.
Geodude is a recurring character in the Pokémon anime. It first appeared in the fifth episode, Showdown in Pewter City , used by Gym Leader Brock to battle Ash. Brock became a travel companion of Ash and owned Geodude during Pokémon the Series: The Beginning and Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire . Navel Island Gym Leader Danny , Rustboro City Gym Leader Roxanne and Oreburgh city Gym Leader Roark have also used Geodude. In the anime, Geodude is able to levitate above the ground.
Geodude appears to be based on a rock , boulder , or throwing stone . Its Shiny coloration may be based on a gold nugget .
Geodude's Alolan form appears to be a pun on a thunderegg, a crystalline rock similar to a geode that forms with volcanic ash layers. Its "hair" also appears to be based on magnetic sand .
Geodude may come from the words geode , dude , and the prefix geo- (meaning Earth).
Golem's body resembles a large boulder. It has claws on its hands and feet.
Concept artwork of Alolan Golem.
An Alolan Golem is much different than its Kantonian counterpart. Two crystalline formations protrude from Golem's back while what appear to be a mustache and beard are actually iron filings. Golem's arms are much shorter as well.
Golem shed their skins annually to grow larger; their shells almost immediately crumble away into the soil, enriching it. Farmers strive to collect shed Golem pelts as a result. Their bodies are whitish and tender for a short period of time, but new shells will quickly harden upon contact with the air. However, Golem eventually stop shedding with age, and particularly old individuals may even start growing moss on their carapaces after some time. Earthquakes will sometimes send groups of Golem rolling down, endangering alpine homes. To protect these structures, grooves are often dug in the sides of mountains to redirect the paths of spooked Golem (and careless Graveler as well).
Though they do not have very good aim, their projectiles can easily electrify foes if they even so much as graze them, causing numbness or even fainting; such projectiles will release a burst of electrical energy radiating form the point of impact. They may even grab Alolan Geodude as ammo if they are not paying attention. Though firing their pre-evolutions does not hurt them, their relatives are usually not at all happy about the arrangement. These Pokémon must find rocks to reload between each shot, making their attacks rather slow. If their opponents draw too near while they are reloading, they may try to electrocute them directly with their cannons. These irritable Pokémon can emit crackling electricity from the surface of their bodies when angered to 'growl' with the sound of an approaching thunderstorm.
Golem can have the ability Rock Head or the ability Sturdy . Rock Head prevents Golem from recoiling. Sturdy prevents Golem from being KO-ed by 1 Hit KO moves; starting with Gen V, Sturdy allows Golem to hang on with 1 HP after being hit by a single attack. Golem's Alolan variant gains two new abilities, which are Magnet Pull and Galvanize . Magnet Pull, which is shared with the Magnemite line and Nosepass line, prevent Steel-type Pokémon from escaping. Galvanize, which is unique among the Alolan Graveler evolution line, converts Normal-type moves into Electric-type moves.
Golem's hide is so hard, that dynamite can't harm it. When they roll down the mountains they live on, they leave grooves.
The Alolan variant of Golem generates magnetic energy to increase the speed of the electrically charged boulders it launches from the crystals on its back; these boulders can paralyze and numb opponents at the slightest touch. However, if these boulders aren't available for use, Alolan Golem will use nearby Alolan Geodudes as spare ammunition. Unlike its Kantonian counterpart, Alolan Golem is much more stubborn and can discharge electricity when agitated as well as letting out a roar that mimics the sound of Thunder .
Golem evolves from Graveler if traded and it is the final evolution of Geodude .
Its boulder-like body is extremely hard. It can easily withstand dynamite blasts without taking damage.
Once it sheds its skin, its body turns tender and whitish. Its hide hardens when it's exposed to air.
It sheds its skin once a year. The discarded shell immediately hardens and crumbles away.
It is capable of blowing itself up. It uses this explosive force to jump from mountain to mountain.
Its rock-like body is so durable, even high-powered dynamite blasts fail to scratch its rugged hide.
Golem live up on mountains. If there is a large earthquake, these Pokémon will come rolling down off the mountains en masse to the foothills below.
Golem is known for rolling down from mountains. To prevent them from rolling into the homes of people downhill, grooves have been dug into the sides of mountains to serve as guide ways for diverting this Pokémon's course.
It is enclosed in a hard shell that is as rugged as slabs of rock. It sheds skin once a year to grow larger.
It is said to live in volcanic craters on mountain peaks. Once a year, it sheds its hide and grows larger. The shed hide crumbles and returns to the soil.
It sheds its hide once a year. Its boulder-like body is so tough, even dynamite can't harm it.
It tumbles down mountains, leaving grooves from peak to base. Stay clear of these grooves.
Even dynamite can't harm its hard, boulder-like body. It sheds its hide just once a year.
Golem is known for rolling down from mountains. To prevent them from rolling into the homes of people downhill, grooves have been dug into the sides of mountains to serve as guideways for diverting this Pokémon's course.
Kantonian Form : Its body can survive dynamite blasts without a single scratch, but it hates rain and humidity. Alolan Form : It fires rocks charged with electricity. Even if the rock isn't fired that accurately, just grazing an opponent will cause numbness and fainting.
Kantonian Form : Once a year, this Pokémon molts, and its shed shell returns to the soil. This process creates enriched soil, so farmers collect the shells. Alolan Form : Because it can't fire boulders at a rapid pace, it's been known to seize nearby Geodude and fire them from its back.
Kantonian Form : When Golem grow old, they stop shedding their shells. Those that have lived a long, long time have shells green with moss. Alolan Form : It’s grumpy and stubborn. If you upset it, it discharges electricity from the surface of its body and growls with a voice like thunder.
Kantonian Form : It detonates its own body. The power from that explosion can propel it up steep mountain paths with amazing speed. Alolan Form : It shoots large rocks that are charged with electricity. Tremendous electric shocks are flung out across the whole area of impact.
Kantonian Form : Once it sheds its skin, its body turns tender and whitish. Its hide hardens when it's exposed to air. Alolan Form : It uses magnetism to accelerate and fire off rocks tinged with electricity. Even if it doesn't score a direct hit, the jolt of electricity will do the job.
The rocklike shell is shed each year. The cast-off shell then crumbles, reverting to a mass of soil, which can be spread across fields to promote crop growth.
Kantonian Form :It is enclosed in a hard shell that is as rugged as slabs of rock. It sheds skin once a year to grow larger. Alolan Form : It’s grumpy and stubborn. If you upset it, it discharges electricity from the surface of its body and growls with a voice like thunder.
Kantonian Form :It deliberately blows itself up, then uses this explosive force to jump from mountain to mountain. Alolan Form : It fires rocks charged with electricity. Even if the rock isn’t fired that accurately, just grazing an opponent will cause numbness and fainting.
Golem appears to be based on a rock or boulder with elements of a tortoise , animals believed to carry the world on their backs in some mythologies. As evidenced by its English name, it also takes inspiration from a golem , with its appearance being based around more media-portrayed appearances, usually appearing as a monster covered in or made out of stone. It may also be based on a yōkai known as the Tsuchikorobi, also called the "tumbling monster" that rolls down cliffs and squashes travelers in its way similarly to a boulder. Its body also appears similarly to tectonic plates .
Golem's Alolan form appears to be a pun on a thunderegg, a crystalline rock similar to a geode that forms with volcanic ash layers. Its "hair" also appears to be based on magnetic sand . It might also share some characteristics with a railgun due to the two crystal-like structures protruding from the top of its body and it using it to launch Geodude.
Golem's design is presumably a reference to Takkong , and lesser extents for Gamera and Gabora ; classic tokusatsu and kaiju genres, especially the Ultraman franchise, are known as one of main inspirations for the Pokémon , and these franchises also possess connections with the Pocket Monsters . [2]
Golem is literally golem , however, it may come from gorogorōn (the Japanese onomatopoeia of something rolling).
Ponyta is an equine-like Pokémon that has cream colored fur. Rather than having a fur mane, Ponyta has one made of fire, which burns when it is happy or excited. On its heels are streaks of fire. About an hour after birth, its fiery mane and tail grow out, giving it an impressive appearance.
Galarian Ponyta is white and its mane resembles light blue and purple clouds. The fire on its legs are replaced with purple fluffy fur. While Kantonian Ponyta lack horns, Galarian Ponyta has a black horn with a single white stripe. It is said that they changed type and appearance over generations after being exposed to the energy in the Galarian forests.
Ponyta is very weak at birth, so weak that it can barely stand up. This Pokémon however becomes stronger by stumbling and falling to keep up with its parent. It is known to run fast and jump high. It allows humans to ride on its back occasionally. However, if angered, it may choose to burn its rider by igniting its back. Although its mane is made of flames, it will never burn a Trainer it trusts.
Galarian Ponyta has the ability to absorb life energy and store it in its mane, which causes it to glow. It never trusts wicked people, who it turns away and vanishes from, whenever it senses one with evil thoughts. If it accompanies with a Trainer, it means it knows the Trainer is a goodhearted person. In " The Tale of You and Glimwood Tangle! ", they also have a tendency to be very shy and don't make themselves known to people very much, but when in distress or in need of help they send psychic visions to those they trust regardless of the distance.
Ponyta has hooves which are harder than diamond and its legs are strong and durable; able to absorb the shock from taking high jumps.
Galarian Ponyta can heal poisoned allies with its psychic powers, and can easily heal wounds only with a gentle touch from its horn. It can detect a person's kindness with psychic as well, being to identify people who have good hearts.
Ponyta evolves into Rapidash starting at level 40.
Ponyta and its evolution are based on various fire horses from mythology, one of which is Aethon, an immortal horse from Greek mythology that pulled the chariot of Helios, the god of the sun.
Galarian Ponyta bears more closely to unicorns, which are the national symbol of Scotland. Its Psychic type comes from unicorns being able to purify poison and other negativity while having poison-immune magic as well.
"Ponyta" comes from the Japanese corruption of the word "pony" or "ponytail", or likely a combination of "pony" and "bonita" (the Spanish word for "beautiful").
Galarian Ponyta's species name, Unique Horn, is a pun on "unicorn".
Rapidash is a cream-colored, equine Pokémon with red eyes and a longhorn atop its head, similar to a unicorn. Its mane and tail are comprised of red and yellow flames, while smaller embers trail from its fetlocks.
Galarian Rapidash is a pure equine Pokémon with a slender, graceful build and a mystical presence. Its body is cream-white, and it has large, ocean-blue eyes. Atop its head is a long, spiraled horn, resembling that of a unicorn, glowing faintly with a magical aura. Its mane and tail are composed of flowing, pastel-colored strands, consisting of light lavender-pink and light blue that drift like enchanted mist. These silky locks ripple gently even without wind, giving it an ethereal, dreamlike appearance. Smaller wisps of its mane trail down its legs, replacing the fiery fetlocks of its Kantonian counterpart with soft, magical tufts. Its hooves are dark magenta.
Rapidash is rather competitive and tends to have a rash nature. The fastest Rapidash will be chosen as its herd's leader, which determines the direction the herd is heading and the speed its herd runs. They are quite rare in the wild and can be found mostly in Kanto, although sightings in Sinnoh, Johto and Unova have occasionally been reported.
Galarian Rapidash is intrepid and resolute, taking pride in its abilities on being able to dash across the forests with the psychic powers stored in the hair around its hooves. Galarian Rapidash are reported to be sighted in woods and forests like Glimwood Tangle in Galar .
Rapidash can dash at a high speed across vast lands. It is also one of the fastest Pokémon , with a top speed of 150 mph (241 km/h). Its flaming mane can burn glowingly under high speed boost.
Galarian Rapidash can conjure psychic blades, projections and projectiles through its horn, which are destructive enough to create massive holes through solid metal.
Rapidash evolves from Ponyta starting at level 40.
Very competitive, this Pokémon will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it.
Just loves to run. If it sees something faster than itself, it will give chase at top speed.
At full gallop, its four hooves barely touch the ground because it moves so incredibly fast.
With incredible acceleration, it reaches its top speed of 150 mph after running just ten steps.
It just loves to gallop. The faster it goes, the longer the swaying flames of its mane will become.
Rapidash usually can be seen casually cantering in the fields and plains. However, when this Pokémon turns serious, its fiery manes flare and blaze as it gallops its way up to 150 mph.
It can gallop at a top speed of 150 miles per hour. It can race as fast as a bullet train while ablaze.
It usually canters casually in the fields and plains. But once a Rapidash turns serious, its fiery manes flare and blaze as it gallops its way up to 150 mph.
It gallops at nearly 150 mph. With its mane blazing ferociously, it races as if it were an arrow.
It has astounding acceleration. From a standstill, it can reach top speed within 10 steps.
When at an all-out gallop, its blazing mane sparkles, enhancing its beautiful appearance.
With incredible acceleration, it reaches its top speed of 150 mph after running just 10 steps.
Kantonian Form : This Pokémon can be seen galloping through fields at speeds of up to 150 mph, its fiery mane fluttering in the wind. Galarian Form : Little can stand up to its psycho cut. Unleashed from this Pokémon's horn, the move will punch a hole right through a thick metal sheet.
Kantonian Form : The fastest runner becomes the leader, and it decides the herd's pace and direction of travel. Galarian Form : Brave and prideful, this Pokémon dashes airily through the forest, its steps aided by the psychic power stored in the fur on its fetlocks.
Rapidash appears to be based on unicorns due to the horn on its head. It also may be based on different fire horses in mythology such as those found in Greek and Hindu mythology.
Galarian Rapidash appears to be based on more modern depictions of unicorns, making them appear more magical and cute.
Rapidash may come from rapid , ash , and dash .
Galarian Rapidash's species name, Unique Horn, is a pun on "unicorn".
Concept artwork of Kantonian Slowpoke.
Slowpoke is a mostly pink, round, plump-bodied Pokémon that resembles a small hippopotamus. It is a quadruped with four short, chubby limbs that taper off into small single white toes on its feet. Its pale, tan muzzle is large and round, protruding slightly, with a wide mouth, two visible blunt teeth, and two slits for nostrils. Its eyes, just above its muzzle, are circular and white, with two small black pupils. It has two short, curly ears. It and has a long tail with a pale tip, that is uses as a fishing pole.
Galarian Slowpoke's appearance is a result of particles being built from eating Galarica seeds. The main difference is that it has gained yellow markings on its forehead and tail. Its limbs are more generally spread out while its tail remains closer to the ground rather than in a curved shape like Kantonian Slowpoke.
Although slow, Slowpoke is skilled at fishing with its tail , and it does not feel pain if its tail is bitten . It is also implied that their tails can grow back if it is cut off or removed (either during battle, fishing, and/or occasionally by human's). Slowpoke's tails are also a delicacy and worth a lot of money.
Slowpoke is described as "dopey" and rarely moves. It doesn't notice when the tail is bitten, cut off and even grown back. It can take them over 5 seconds to react to pain. To catch food, Slowpoke dangle their tails lazily from the shore into the sea. They secrete a sweet substance that attracts fish. However, due to their daftness, they sometimes forget why they were even near the water in the first place. It can take them up to a day to process bites on their tails.
Galarian Slowpoke used to eat the seeds of a certain plant that grew in their habitat. These seeds were in fact Galarica seeds, used to this day as an essential spice for cooking in the Galar region. The Slowpoke in Galar built up particles of this spice in their bodies over several generations, eventually gaining the unique appearance and behavior they are known for today.
Galarian Slowpoke spend their days wallowing on seashores and riverbanks without thinking about anything in particular. Occasionally, they might get a very sharp look in their eyes, but they will soon revert to their zoned-out expression. It is thought that this behavior is caused by the accumulated Galarica particles stimulating Galarian Slowpoke's brain, resulting in it thinking of something tremendous—only for the Galarian Slowpoke to immediately forget what it had just thought of.
It is said that Galarian Slowpoke love Galarica Cuffs and Galarica Wreaths .
Slowpoke evolves into either Slowbro starting at level 37 or Slowking if traded while holding a King's Rock .
In Pokémon the Series , Slowpoke evolves differently, becoming a Slowbro if a Shellder latch on to its tail or a Slowking if a Slowpoke puts on a King's Rock and has a Shellder clamp onto it.
Galarian Slowpoke evolves into either Galarian Slowbro if given a Galarica Cuff or Galarian Slowking if given a Galarica Wreath .
Incredibly slow and dopey. It takes 5 seconds for it to feel pain when under attack.
Incredibly slow and sluggish. It is quite content to loll about without worrying about the time.
It lazes vacantly near water. If something bites its tail, it won't even notice for a whole day.
A sweet sap leaks from its tail tip. Although not nutritious, the tail is pleasant to chew right.
It is always so absent-minded that in won't react, even if it's flavorful tail is bitten.
Slowpoke uses its tail to catch prey by dipping it in water at the side of a river. However, this Pokémon often forgets what it's doing and often spends entire days just loafing at water's edge.
It is always vacantly lost in thought, but no one knows what it is thinking about. It is good at fishing with its tail.
It catches prey by dipping its tail in water at the side of a river. But it often forgets what it is doing and spends entire days just loafing at water's edge.
Although slow, it is skilled at fishing with its tail. It does not feel pain if its tail is bitten.
It lazes vacantly near water. If something bites its tail, it wont even notice for a whole day.
Its long tail often breaks off. It doesn't really feel any pain, and the tail grows back, so Slowpoke isn't particularly bothered.
Alolan home cooking involves drying Slowpoke sails and then simmering them into a salty stew.
There are some places where Slowpoke is worshiped because of a long-standing belief that whenever Slowpoke yawns, it rains.
Although their tails, which fall off naturally, can easily be found lying around, they’re a precious ingredient for cooking.
Kantonian Form : Slow-witted and oblivious, this Pokémon won't feel any pain when its tail gets eaten. It won't notice when its tail grows back, either. Galarian Form : Although this Pokémon is normally zoned out, its expression abruptly sharpens on occasion. The cause for this seems to lie in Slowpoke's diet.
Kantonian Form : When this Pokémon's tail is soaked in water, sweetness seeps from it. Slowpoke uses this trait to lure in and fish up other Pokémon. Galarian Form : Because Galarian Slowpoke eat the seeds of a plant that grows only in Galar, their tails have developed a spicy flavor.
Slowpoke appears to be based on a stylized hippopotamus . Its ability to regrow its tail may come from axolotls or salamanders , as they are able to regenerate lost limbs.
Slowpoke is literally " slowpoke ", which means a slow and dimwitted person, relating to Slowpoke's personality. It may also be loosely based on "slow" and "Pokémon".
Slowbro is a bipedal, pink Pokémon with a tan, striped belly and a tan muzzle. It has large, vacant eyes, curled ears, and two pointed teeth protruding from its upper jaw. On its hands, it has three clawed fingers, and two clawed toes on its feet. There is a Shellder attached to its tail. This Shellder has a gray, spiraled shell with darker gray spots. There are several spikes across the surface of the Shellder, and it holds onto Slowbro with many sharp teeth.
When Slowbro Mega Evolves into Mega Slowbro, it becomes engulfed by the Shellder to the point where only its head, arms and tail are visible. The spiral Shellder now has an opening at its tip, allowing the tail of Slowbro to stick out, which it balances on due to its legs being engulfed. The spikes on the Shellder are now reduced to four on the bottom section of its body, with the dark spots only visible on its middle section.
The Galarian form of Slowbro has purple markings on its upper head and ears, tail, and arms. The "Shellder" that attaches to Kantonian Slowbro's tail is on Slowbro's left arm instead, being more similar to an arm cannon. The spikes on Shellder are larger and more conical.
Kantonian Slowbro is typically rather lazy and unintelligent, but when the Shellder bites down on its tail (causing more venom to head to the brain), it becomes inspired for some reason. It is very peaceful and avoids confrontation most of the time. Slowbro are no longer able to fish with their tails and must, to their disdain, swim to catch food.
Galarian Slowbro is more aggressive as the Shellder biting down on its arm causes it to Attack everything indiscriminately. While normally zoned out, it gets rather serious due to a stimulus jolt. The two organisms have some autonomy in controlling how Galarian Slowbro acts. By squeezing their Shellder's tongues, these Pokémon can cause them to shoot out a toxin liquid from the tips of their shells. However, the Shellder can also bite down when they sense danger, triggering their hosts to swing around the arms wildly while shooting toxins to both smash and poison indiscriminately. Because of this, these Pokémon can be quite dangerous to be around. By injecting venom into their bloodstreams (either by the parasite's or the host's volition), Galarian Slowbro can drastically sharpen their senses thanks to the venom's reaction with galaricin. This makes them incredibly quick on the draw, shooting enemies with great accuracy before they even prepare to attack.
Kantonian Slowbro is implied to be able to use powerful psychic attacks it only uses when forced to. It is also somehow insensitive to pain due to Shellder biting on it, tying into its oblivious and own tempo abilities (which ignores infatuation and confusion). It hidden ability, regenerator, heals its slightly when withdrawn from battle.
Mega Slowbro's Shellder has become armor that is unscratchable, reflected in its Shell armor ability (which prevents critical hits on it), while it can move by jumping on its tail like a spring. The Slowpoke involved is virtually unchanged, aside from becoming stronger and more motivated.
Galarian Slowbro are surprisingly fast, reflected in their signature Quick Draw ability (which gives it chance to strike first). Their primary Attack method is shooting poison from its Shellder by pulling in the tongue of the latter.
Slowbro evolves from Slowpoke at level 37. Slowbro can Mega Evolve into Mega Slowbro using its Slowbronite .
In Pokémon the Series , Slowbro evolves from Slowpoke if Shellder bites its tail.
Galarian Slowbro evolves from Galarian Slowpoke if given a Galarica Cuff .
The Shellder that latches onto Slowpoke's tail is said to feed on the host's leftover scraps.
Lives lazily by the sea. If the Shellder on its tail comes off, it becomes a Slowpoke again.
If the tail-biting Shellder is thrown off in a harsh battle, it reverts to being an ordinary Slowpoke.
Naturally dull to begin with, it lost its ability to feel pain due to Shellder's seeping poison.
An attached Shellder won't let go because of the tasty flavor that oozes out of its tail.
Slowbro's tail has a Shellder firmly attached with a bite. As a result, the tail can't be used for fishing anymore. This causes Slowbro to grudgingly swim and catch prey instead.
When a Slowpoke went hunting in the sea, its tail was bitten by a Shellder. That made it evolve into Slowbro.
Its tail has a Shellder firmly attached with a bite. As a result, the tail can't be used for fishing anymore. This forces it to reluctantly swim and catch prey.
Though usually dim witted, it seems to become inspired if the Shellder on its tail bites down.
It spaces out while gazing at the sea. With Shellder's poison flowing through its body, it becomes even spacier. Mega Evolution : All the energy from Mega Evolution poured into the Shellder on its tail, leaving Slowpoke to be swallowed whole.
Whenever Shellder bites down hard on its tail, it gives Slowbro a flash of inspiration...which it forgets a moment later. Mega Evolution : When bathed in the energy of Mega Evolution, Shellder converts into impregnable armor. There is virtually no change in Slowpoke.
Spacing out is basically all it does. It turns back into Slowpoke if its tail, along with Shellder, breaks off. Mega Evolution : Tremendous energy strengthened the power of the Shellder on its tail, but it doesn’t really affect Slowpoke.
Shellder, in its greed to suck out more and more sweetness from Slowbro’s tail, has metamorphosed into a spiral-shaped shell. Mega Evolution : Having been swallowed whole by Shellder, Slowbro now has an iron defense. It’s pretty comfortable in there, too.
Lives lazily by the sea. If the Shellder on its tail comes off, it becomes a Slowpoke again. Mega Evolution: Under the influence of Shellder's digestive fluids, Slowpoke has awakened, gaining a great deal of power–and a little motivation to boot.
Lives lazily by the sea. If the Shellder on its tail comes off, it becomes a Slowpoke again. Mega Evolution : Under the influence of Shellder's digestive fluids, Slowpoke has awakened, gaining a great deal of power–and a little motivation to boot.
Kantonian Form : Slowpoke became Slowbro when a Shellder bit on to its tail. Sweet flavors seeping from the tail make the Shellder feel as if its life is a dream. Galarian Form : A Shellder bite set off a chemical reaction with the spices inside Slowbro's body, causing Slowbro to become a Poison-type Pokémon.
Kantonian Form : Being bitten by a Shellder shocked this Pokémon into standing on two legs. If the Shellder lets go, it seems Slowbro will turn back into a Slowpoke. Galarian Form : If this Pokémon squeezes the tongue of the Shellder biting it, the Shellder will launch a toxic liquid from the tip of its shell.
Slowbro's personality and donning of a shell may reference hermit crabs , as such animals are usually known to lie around with a shell attached to their backsides. Its physical appearance takes some aspects of semi-aquatic mammals such as hippopotamuses and otters . It may also be based on the Japanese tale of the sazae-oni , a sea demon usually identified by its spiny turban shell.
Shellder latching onto Slowpoke's tail after it is dipped in the water may be a reference to leeches and how they often attach themselves to victims laying in water. The behavior of the attached Shellder also reflects leeches, usually refusing to let go due to the flavor of Slowpoke's tail.
Galarian Slowbro mostly takes the same inspirations from its Kantonian counterpart, though its Poison -typing may reference the cone snail , a species of snail that is highly venomous. It may also take inspiration from arm cannons, a fictional weapon often used in media (such as Mega Man and the Mega Buster) as it uses the attached Shellder to shoot out various attacks.
Slowbro's name comes from the words slow (or possibly Slowpoke , its pre-evolution) and bro (short for brother , referencing the relationship between it and its Shellder).
Its Japanese name, Yadoran , was inspired by famous Yugoslav singer-songwriter and Konami collaborator Jadranka Stojaković , whose first name transliterated into Japanese is ヤドランカ ( Yadoranka ). [2]
Magnemite has light bluish-gray steel body in the shape of a sphere which is kept bound together with the two screws and one large screw at the top of its head. It has one big eye that is as big as the magnets it uses; which can launch electric attacks. On the side of its body are two horseshoe magnets which expel antigravity, allowing it to float in mid-air.
Magnemite emit electromagnetic energy from its horseshoe magnets in order to keep afloat. It consumes electricity by attaching itself to power lines. During power outages, people would often find large groups of Magnemites congregating inside of circuit breakers. If a Magnemite runs low on its electrical energy supply, it would be rendered incapable of flight (but can be recharged by batteries). It is normally pacifistic and would mostly only retaliate with non-damaging moves. Under the guidance of a Pokémon Trainer , they can become devoted fighters (though the bond needs to be strong enough first). Magnemite dislikes some sort of signal that Power Stations use to repel them, and are sensitive to geomagnetic storms accodring to " It's All in the Name! " that can induce them to gather together akin to Wishiwashi 's Schooling ability.
The units at its sides generate electromagnetic waves that keep it airborne. It also feeds on electricity.
Magnemite evolves into Magneton starting at level 30 and then evolves into Magnezone if leveled up in a location with a special magnetic field (before Generation VIII ) or if it touches a Thunder Stone (starting from Generation VIII).
Uses antigravity to stay suspended. Appears without warning and uses Thunder Wave and similar moves.
It is born with the ability to defy gravity. It floats in air on powerful electromagnetic waves.
It is attracted by electromagnetic waves. It may approach trainers if they are using their PokéGear.
The units at the sides of its body generate anti-gravity energy to keep it aloft in the air.
The electricity emitted by the units on each side of its body cause it to become a strong magnet.
Magnemite attaches itself to power lines to feed on electricity. If your house has a power outage, check your circuit breakers. You may find a large number of this Pokémon clinging to the breaker box.
Magnemite floats in the air by emitting electromagnetic waves from the units at its sides. These waves block gravity. This Pokémon becomes incapable of flight if its internal electrical supply is depleted.
It moves while constantly hovering. It discharges Thunder Wave and so on from the units at its sides.
The units at its sides are extremely powerful magnets. They generate enough magnetism to draw in iron objects from over 300 feet away.
The units at its sides generate electromagnetic waves that keep it airborne. It feeds on electricity.
The faster the units at its sides rotate, the greater the magnetic force they generate.
The electromagnetic waves emitted by the units at the sides of its head expel antigravity, which allows it to float.
The units at the sides of its body generate antigravity energy to keep it aloft in the air.
They gather in places where electricity is available. They can be found clinging to the steel towers used to support power lines.
It sends out electromagnetic waves, which let it float through the air. Touching it while it's eating electricity will give you a full-body shock.
It’s frequently the cause of power outages, which is why some power plants send out electrical signals that it can’t stand.
Perhaps because electrical lines are often buried these days, the number of Magnemite attacks on power plants has increased.
It is hatched with the ability to defy gravity. It floats while emitting powerful electromagnetic waves.
At times, Magnemite runs out of electricity and ends up on the ground. If you give batteries to a grounded Magnemite, it'll start moving again.
It subsists on electricity. As Magnemite flies, it emits electromagnetic waves from the units on each side of its body.
A bizarre Pokémon with but a single eye embedded in an iron sphere. I suspect this creature levitates due to the magnetism it emits from its arms, which resemble horseshoe-shaped magnets.
It moves while constantly hovering. It discharges electromagnetic waves and so on from the units at its sides.
Magnemite is likely based on horseshoe magnets and satellites (the magnets replace the solar panels powering many satellites).
Magnemite comes from "magnet", "magnetite" (a naturally magnetic iron ore), "satellite", and mite (referring to a small object).
It's Japanese name, Koiru, comes from "coil".
Magneton is simply the result of three Magnemite linked together through a strong, magnetic force. The Magnemite that make up Magneton are usually linked together in a triangle formation (with two on the bottom and one on top). However, some 3-D games (usually the Stadium series) depict Magneton as three separate Magnemite.
Magneton emits a powerful magnetic force that holds it together. Similar to its pre-evolved form, Magnemite, Magneton is able use electromagnetism to levitate and move around. The electromagnetic energy that Magneton emits is so strong that any nearby electronic devices would be fatally damaged; in fact, the strength of Magneton's electromagnetic powers are three times more stronger than Magnemite's. Another dangerous side effect of Magneton's strong electromagnetic force is creating black outs in many cities; because of this, many cities forbid any Trainer from letting Magneton out of its Poké Ball.
At high voltage, Magneton can release stronger waves of electromagnetic energy and radio waves that can increase temperatures up to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit with a nearby 3,300-ft. radius. It is also able to cause earaches to anyone that gets too close to it. Magneton usually appear frequently whenever sunspots flare up.
The abilities that Magneton can have are Sturdy or Magnet Pull . Sturdy prevents any OHKO moves from hitting Magneton. Magnet Pull prevents any Steel -type Pokémon from escaping battle.
Magneton, along with its evolution family, is the only Electric Pokémon that can learn Zap Cannon via leveling up.
Magneton Magnemite starting at level 30 and evolves into Magnezone if leveled up in a location with a special magnetic field (before Generation VIII ) or if it touches a Thunder Stone (starting from Generation VIII).
Formed by several Magnemite linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up.
Generates strange radio signals. It raises the temperature by 3.6F degrees within 3,300 feet.
Three Magnemite are linked by a strong magnetic force. Earaches will occur if you get too close.
The Magnemite are united by a magnetism so powerful, it dries all moisture in its vicinities.
When many Magneton gather together, the resulting magnetic storm disrupts radio waves.
Magneton emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to mechanical devices. As a result, large cities sound sirens to warn citizens of large-scale outbreaks of this Pokémon.
Magneton emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to electronics and precision instruments. Because of this, it is said that some towns warn people to keep this Pokémon inside a Poké Ball.
A linked cluster formed of several Magnemite. It discharges powerful magnetic waves at high voltage.
It is actually three Magnemite linked by magnetism. It generates powerful radio waves that raise temperatures by 3.6 degrees F within a 3,300-foot radius.
It is actually three Magnemite linked by magnetism. A group can set off a magnetic storm.
Many mysteriously appear when more sunspots dot the sun. They stop TV sets from displaying properly.
Generates strange radio signals. It raises the temperature by 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit within 3,300 feet.
When three Magnemite link together, their brains also become one. They do not become three times more intelligent.
It has about three times the electrical power of Magnemite. For some reason, outbreaks of this Pokémon happen when lots of sunspots appear.
Delicate equipment can malfunction in areas inhabited by Magneton, which send out mysterious electrical signals.
When rain clouds form, many Magneton gather in high places to wait for lightning to strike.
This Pokémon is three Magnemite that have linked together. Magneton sends out powerful radio waves to study its surroundings.
This Pokémon is constantly putting out a powerful magnetic force. Most computers go haywire when a Magneton approaches.
A Magneton is actually three Magnemite linked by magnetism. A group of these Pokémon can set off a magnetic storm.
Three Magnemite gathered to evolve into this Pokémon. The source of much vexation on my part, as its powerful magnetism destroys my research equipment.
They're formed by several Magnemite linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up.
A Shiny Magneton appeared in the episode Tie One On! .
In the episode Watt's with Wattson, a Magneton appears alongside with its pre-evolution Magnemite and a Voltorb, all three under the ownership of the Mauville Gym leader Wattson. It was used by Wattson to battle Ash, but was instantly defeated by Pikachu, because Pikachu's electric attacks were powered up from destroying a mechanical Raikou.
Like its evolutionary relatives, Magneton is based on a magnet . Being composed of three Magnemites, Magneton may also be based on electromagnetism .
Magneton's name may be a reference to magneton , which is a unit regarding to magnetic movement, as well as magnetron , a device that is the core of a microwave oven .
Doduo is a tall, bird Pokémon resembling an ostrich. It has two heads that are exactly identical. Doduo is covered in brown down and has large taloned feet.
The difference between a male and female Doduo is their necks. Male Doduo have black necks while females have beige necks.
Doduo alternately bob their heads to keep balance while running. Their two heads have identical brains (though a few with differing ones have been discovered on occasion) and can communicate ​with each other through telepathy in order to accomplish common goals. The two heads take turns sleeping; while one dozes off, the other keeps watch for any potential dangers approaching. This team effort makes it difficult to catch Doduo off-guard. To defend themselves, Doduo can attack with moves such as Double Hit and Drill Peck . They are able to use both heads at once for some moves, effectively being able to target two enemies at the same time if necessary.
Doduo can run very fast; however, they can't fly very well.
Doduo evolves into Dodrio starting at level 31.
A bird that makes up for its poor flying with its fast foot speed. Leaves giant footprints.
Its short wings make flying difficult. Instead, this Pokémon runs at high speed on developed legs.
By alternately raising and lowering its two heads, it balances itself to be more stable while running.
It races through grassy plains with powerful strides, leaving footprints up to four inches deep.
It lives on a grassy plain where it can see a long way. If it sees an enemy, it runs away at 60 mph.
Doduo's two heads never sleep at the same time. Its two heads take turns sleeping, so one head can always keep watch for enemies while the other one sleeps.
Doduo's two heads contain completely identical brains. A scientific study reported that on rare occasions, there will be examples of this Pokémon possessing different sets of brains.
A two-headed Pokémon that was discovered as a sudden mutation. It runs at a pace of over 60 miles per hour.
Even while eating or sleeping, one of the heads remains always vigilant for any sign of danger. When threatened, it flees at over 60 miles per hour.
The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with telepathic power.
The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with a telepathic power.
Its twin heads have exactly the same genes and battle in perfect sync with each other.
Its heads never sleep at the same time-each one takes a turn keeping watch while the other sleeps, switching every hour or so.
Gary's Doduo.
While its name references the dodo , Doduo more resembles kiwis and ostriches as well as other flightless birds. It is also similar to the Bharunda , a two-headed bird from the Panchantara tales of India .
Its name comes from the dodo, an extinct flightless bird, and duo which means two, as Doduo has two heads.
Concept artwork of Dodrio.
Dodrio is an ostrich-like Pokémon. It has three heads that each have a black V-shaped crest on top. Its body is nearly all covered in brown down. It has large clawed feet. Its tail is made up of large red feathers. Even though no wings are seen it is still part Flying type. Unlike its pre-evolved form named Doduo, the faces on Dodrio's faces look different, with each one representing an emotion: joy, sadness, and anger.
Like Doduo , the males have black necks while the females have beige necks.
Each head controls a different basic emotion; one expresses joy, one sadness, and one anger. They can also use their three heads to conceive complex plans to search for food or defend themselves. However, they may occasionally over-exhaust themselves with this, and will remain motionless for extended periods of time while recovering. Their heads do argue sometimes, since the emotions they control tend to disagree. However, like many internal conflicts, these inner spats are usually solved with food. Since they share the same stomach, when one of the heads eats, the other two will be satisfied as well. Those who live near Dodrio may be woken up early in the morning by their raucous calls—they squawk at the same time every day without fail.
Dodrio can have the ability Run Away or the ability Early Bird . Run Away lets Dodrio flee from any wild Pokémon. Early Bird allows Dodrio to wake up faster from the Sleep status. Each of its three heads represents an emotion. Dodrio's heads represent happiness, sadness, and anger. They are capable of running over 40 MPH.
Dodrio evolves from Doduo starting at level 31.
Three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head is said to stay awake.
One of Doduo's 2 heads splits to form a unique species. It runs close to 40 MPH in prairies.
It collects data and plans three times as wisely, but it may think too much and become immobilized.
If one of the heads gets to eat, the others will be satisfied, too, and they will stop squabbling.
An enemy that takes its eyes off any of the three heads--even for a second--will get pecked severely.
Watch out if Dodrio's three heads are looking in three separate directions. It's a sure sign that it is on its guard. Don't go near this Pokémon if it's being wary - it may decide to peck you.
Apparently, the heads aren't the only parts of the body that Dodrio has three of. It has three sets of hearts and lungs as well, so it is capable of running long distances without rest.
An odd species that is rarely found. The three heads respectively represent joy, sadness, and anger.
Uses its three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head is said to stay awake.
A peculiar Pokémon species with three heads. It vigorously races across grassy plains even in arid seasons with little rainfall.
When Doduo evolves into this odd breed, one of its heads splits into two. It runs at nearly 40 mph.
It collects data and plans three times as wisely, but it may think too much and fall into a state of immobility.
Watch out if Dodrio's three heads are looking in three separate directions. It's a sure sign that it is on its guard. Don't go near this Pokémon if it's being wary-it may decide to peck you.
One of Doduo's two heads splits to form a unique species. It runs close to 40 mph in prairies.
It now has three hearts and three sets of lungs. Though it can't run as fast as Doduo, Dodrio can keep running for longer stretches of time.
The strongest head with the thickest neck becomes the leader and gains primary control of the body.
Dodrio resembles an ostrich . It may also incorporate elements of kiwis and roadrunners , and its aggressive temper may be based on the cassowary .
Dodrio's name is derived from " dodo " an extinct species of bird, and "trio" because of its three heads.
Seel is a chubby pinniped Pokémon with a thick, fatty hide covered in bluish white fur. It has a pale tan maw with a large red tongue and a pair of tusks on its lower jaw. It has circular eyes and a black nose that is capable of closing when it swims. There is a small horn on its forehead, which it uses in combination with its tusks to bore through ice floes. It has two flippers on its chest, and two more on the end of its tail. When the tail is raised, it resembles a waterspout.
Seel are vespertine Pokémon that are most active in the evening. Sometimes, one may see a Seel napping near the shoreline in the morning. When hunting, they dive underwater for extended periods of time. When they need to breathe, they surface and break through sea ice with their horns (and tusks if necessary). When Seel swim, they close their nostrils tightly to block out water.
They are highly social Pokémon, living in large, raucous groups on ice floes in the middle of the sea. Seel may play-fight with each other on these floes, sparring with their tusks and horns as well as Water-type and sometimes Ice-type attacks. This activity is important in teaching young Seel how to defend themselves against enemies.
The horns atop their heads can break solid ice. They can survive sub-zero temperatures.
Seel evolves into Dewgong starting at level 34.
The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick ice.
Loves freezing cold conditions. Relishes swimming in a frigid climate of around 14F degrees.
Although it can't walk well on land, it is a graceful swimmer. It especially loves being in frigid seas.
In daytime, it is often found asleep, on the seabed in shallow waters. Its nostrils close while it swims.
The light blue fur that covers it keeps it protected against the cold. It loves iceberg filled oceans.
Seel hunts for prey in the frigid sea underneath sheets of ice. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the Ice with the sharply protruding section of its head.
Covered with light blue fur, its hide is thick and tough. It is active in bitter cold of minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick icebergs.
Seel hunt for prey in frigid, ice-covered seas. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the ice with the sharply protruding section of its head.
A Pokémon that lives on icebergs. It swims in the sea using the point on its head to break up ice.
Covered with light blue fur, its hide is thick and tough. It is active in bitter cold of -40 degrees Fahrenheit.
Seel hunts for prey in the frigid sea underneath sheets of ice. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the ice with the sharply protruding section of its head.
It has always been supposed that Seel live only in cold seas. Their having shown up in Alola is a mystery.
Thanks to its thick fat, cold seas don’t bother it at all, but it gets tired pretty easily in warm waters.
Loves freezing-cold conditions. Relishes swimming in a frigid climate of around 14 degrees Fahrenheit.
It resembles a harp seal pup and it's tail resembles a water spout .
Seel's name is a misspelling of "seal".
Ash's drawing of a Dewgong
Dewgong is a long, somewhat plump, completely white seal-like Pokémon . It has billowing fins. There is also a horn on its head that is useful for bashing through thick ice. It is somewhat just a more elegant version of Seel .
Like Seel, Dewgong prefer frigid waters. They can swim at a steady 8 knots, undeterred by the cooler temperatures around them. In fact, like their pre-evolutions, Dewgong become more active in colder waters. When resting, though they do still sometimes sleep on the ocean floor or shore like Seel, they now prefer to rest on ice floes. Recent studies show that they are in fact sunbathing while doing so, with the increased temperature aiding their digestion. There, their pristine white fur can camouflage them against predators.
Dewgong no longer use their tusks and horns to play-fight, since they stop growing at this stage. However, they are still useful for poking breathing holes into ice floes while swimming under them to resurface for air.
Dewgong are well-adapted to the frigid temperatures of their environment.
Dewgong evolves from Seel starting at level 34.
Stores thermal energy in its body. Swims at a steady 8 knots even in intensely cold waters.
Its entire body is a snowy-white. Unharmed by even intense cold, it swims powerfully in icy waters.
Its streamlined body has little drag in water. The colder the temperature, the friskier it gets.
It loves frigid seas with ice floes. It uses its long tail to change swimming direction quickly.
It sleeps under shallow ocean waters during the day, then looks for food at night when it's cold.
Dewgong loves to snooze on bitterly cold ice. The sight of this Pokémon sleeping on a glacier was mistakenly thought to be a mermaid by a mariner long ago.
Its body is covered with a pure white fur. The colder the weather, the more active it becomes.
It stores thermal energy in the body. It swims at a steady eight knots even in intensely cold waters.
It loves to snooze on bitterly cold ice. The sight of this Pokémon sleeping on a glacier was mistakenly thought to be a mermaid by a mariner long ago.
In snow, the pure white coat covering its body obscures it from predators.
It swims through the ocean at a speed of eight knots, searching for Pokémon that will become its prey. It’s especially fond of Wishiwashi.
It sunbathes on the beach after meals. The rise in its body temperature helps its digestion.
Its entire body is a snowy white. Unharmed by even intense cold, it swims powerfully in icy waters.
Despite its name, Dewgong more closely resembles seals than actual dugongs . Its white coat is similar to a harp seal . The large fin-like tail may be a reference to how dugongs inspired legends of mermaids . Its tusk-like teeth and single horn may also be based on walruses and narwhals . Its Ice type may come from the fact that most pinnipeds live in cold environments.
Dewgong is a combination of dew and dugong .
Grimer was created when sludge in a dirty stream was exposed to the moon's X-rays. It is composed primarily of putrid, hardened sludge and grime. It smells incredibly foul, and can influence the abandonment of entire cities due to its polluting nature－even weeds don't grow where a Grimer has appeared. Grimer thrives in filthy areas, such as factories, garbage dumps, sewers and polluted water systems. It survives and matures by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories, adding toxic waste to its already toxic girth.
Concept artwork of Alolan Grimer.
Alolan Grimer's body structure is largely the same as Kantonian Grimer, though its appearance is different. It has a dark green body with a yellow streak across its lower lip that extends all around its head. It also has black space around its eyes. Inside its mouth is a blue tongue with two "teeth", which are actually crystallized toxins that are highly dangerous to touch.
It enters sewers and other areas with great ease due to its rubbery, semi-viscous body; for example, it can enter barred-off areas by slipping between the narrow bars. If one stick his/her hand in a Grimer, it will be very hard to get it out.
An Alolan Grimer is brought to the Alolan region to deal with the increase of garbage, as well as keeping the Trubbish and Garbodor populations in check. It has adapted into eating solid waste instead of liquid waste. Grimer has a huge obsession of garbage, eating huge amounts at a fast pace; eating garbage constantly has caused Grimer to form crystallized toxins in its mouth.
Grimer can have the ability Stench or the ability Sticky Hold . Stench decreases the chances of encountering a wild Pokémon when Grimer is the first party Pokémon. Sticky Hold prevents the theft of Grimer's held item.
Grimer evolves into Muk starting at level 38.
Appears in filthy areas. Thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories.
Made of hardened sludge. It smells too putrid to touch. Even weeds won't grow in its path.
As it moves, it loses bits of its body from which new Grimer emerge. This worsens the stench around it.
Wherever Grimer has passed, so many germs are left behind that no plants will ever grow again.
When two of these Pokémon's bodies are combined together, new poisons are created.
Grimer's sludgy and rubbery body can be forced through any opening, however small it may be. This Pokémon enters sewer pipes to drink filthy wastewater.
Grimer emerged from the sludge that settled on a polluted seabed. This Pokémon loves anything filthy. It constantly leaks a horribly germ- infested fluid from all over its body.
Sludge exposed to X rays from the moon transformed into Grimer. It loves feeding on filthy things.
Appears in filthy areas. It thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories.
Born from polluted sludge in the sea, Grimer's favorite food is anything filthy. They feed on wastewater pumped out from factories.
It was born when sludge in a dirty stream was exposed to the moon's X-rays. It appears among filth.
Born from sludge, these Pokémon now gather in polluted places and increase the bacteria in their bodies.
Sludge exposed to X-rays from the moon transformed into Grimer. It loves feeding on filthy things.
Grimer emerged from the sludge that settled on a polluted seabed. This Pokémon loves anything filthy. It constantly leaks a horribly germ-infested fluid from all over its body.
Kantonian Form : Its main source of food is the slimy industrial waste of factories. This Pokémon's numbers have been decreasing in recent years. Alolan Form : A Grimer, which had been brought in to solve a problem with garbage, developed over time into this form.
Kantonian Form : It was born from sludge transformed by exposure to X-rays from the moon. When its internal load of germs decreases, it dies. Alolan Form : The crystals on Grimer's body are lumps of toxins. If one falls off, lethal poisons leak out.
Kantonian Form : It was born from sludge on the ocean floor. In a sterile environment, the germs within its body can’t multiply, and it dies. Alolan Form : There are a hundred or so of them living in Alola’s waste-disposal site. They’re all hard workers who eat a lot of trash.
Kantonian Form : The wastewater coming from factories is clean these days, so Grimer have nothing to eat. They’re said to be on the verge of extinction. Alolan Form : Brought to Alola to solve the garbage problem, Grimer seems to relish any and all kinds of trash.
Kantonian Form: Made of congealed sludge. It smells too putrid to touch. Even weeds won't grow in its path. Alolan Form: It has a passion for trash above all else, speedily digesting it and creating brilliant crystals of sparkling poison.
Kantonian Form : Born from sludge, these Pokémon now gather in polluted places and increase the bacteria in their bodies. Alolan Form : They store their toxins inside their bodies, so unlike Grimer from other regions, they don’t smell bad even up close.
Kantonian Form : When two of these Pokémon's bodies are combined together, new poisons are created. Alolan Form : Alolan Grimer will gladly gobble up any kind of trash, making it a widely used and popular Pokémon at garbage disposal facilities.
Grimer made their debut in " Sparks Fly for Magnemite " alongside their evolved form Muk .
Goh owns a Grimer that he caught in " Dreams Are Made of These! ".
Grimer is based on a pool of sewage , liquid toxic waste, or acid . It may also be based on mutated monsters which are often speculated to be created from pollution , especially of toxic waste . It also appears similar to the monster Hedorah of the Japanese Godzilla Series.
Alolan Grimer is likely based on an oil slick due to its rainbow colors. Oil slicks are also a threat to Hawaii (the region Alola is based on), especially in its oceans.
Grimer comes from grime .
Betobetā comes from ベトベト and ベタベタ (betobeto and betabeta, both meaning sticky).
Muk is a large purple mass of sludge, toxic fluids, and other filthy materials. It has two large arms that capture the prey and its eyes are barely visible through the sludge.
Concept artwork of Alolan Muk.
In Alola, Muk's appearance changes drastically. Rather than being just purple, Alolan Muk is a mixture of bright color tones that consist of pink, green, and yellow with dark blue streaks separating each color; this gives Muk the appearance of an oil slick. In addition, crystals formed by solidified toxins cover most of Muk's mouth and hands that gives Muk the appearance of having claws and sharp teeth.
In terms of both body size and weight, a Kantonian Muk is larger but lighter while an Alolan Muk is smaller but heavier.
Muk's body contains highly noxious chemicals that can cause anyone nearby to faint. These chemicals also cause plant life to wither and die. Due to their ability to create pollution, Muk have been victims of extermination; some theorized that because of this, Muk would become extinct in the near future. To counteract this problem, people create sludge pools for Muks to live in.
Alolan Muk, unlike its Kantonian counterpart, produces no foul-smelling odors. Instead, all of the odors are stored within Muk's body and are in turn hardened into crystal-like structures covering its mouth and body; the "crystals" will break apart and release dangerous toxins if removed. The reason why Alolan Muk gains its bright coloration is the large quantities of trash it consumes. Alolan Muk's body contains numerous types of poison. It also preys on Trubbish and Garbodor. Although usually friendly and laidback, an Alolan Muk would consume and destroy its trainer's household items if left unfed for a prolonged period of time.
Muk can have the ability Stench or the ability Sticky Hold . Stench decreases the chances of encountering a wild Pokémon when Muk is the first party Pokémon. Sticky Hold prevents the theft of Muk's held item. Muk has one of the highest attack points of all Poison -type Pokémon, losing only to Toxicroak .
Muk evolves from Grimer starting at level 38.
Thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison.
Smells so awful, it can cause fainting. Through degeneration, it lost its sense of smell.
They love to gather in smelly areas where sludge accumulates, making the stench around them worse.
Its body is made of a powerful poison. Touching it accidentally will cause a fever that requires bed rest.
As it moves, a very strong poison leaks from it, making the ground there barren for three years.
From Muk's body seeps a foul fluid that gives off a nose-bendingly horrible stench. Just one drop of this Pokémon's body fluid can turn a pool stagnant and rancid.
This Pokémon's favorite food is anything that is repugnantly filthy. In dirty towns where people think nothing of throwing away litter on the streets, Muk are certain to gather.
It is usually undetectable because it blends in with the ground. Touching it can cause terrible poisoning.
It prefers warm and humid habitats. In the summertime, the toxic substances in its body intensify, making Muk reek like putrid kitchen garbage.
A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid instantly kills plants and trees on contact.
Kantonian Form : The stench it gives off will make your nose scrunch up. Still, there are Muk fans who think that's a good thing. Alolan Form : The garbage it eats causes continuous chemical changes in its body, which produce its exceedingly vivid coloration.
Kantonian Form : After recent environmental improvements, this Pokémon is now hardly seen at all. People speculate that it may go extinct at some point. Alolan Form : While it's unexpectedly quiet and friendly, if it's not fed any trash for a while, it will smash its Trainer's furnishings and eat up the fragments.
Kantonian Form : Their food sources have decreased, and their numbers have declined sharply. Sludge ponds are being built to prevent their extinction. Alolan Form : There are over a hundred kinds of poison inside its body. Chemical reactions between different poisons are the source of its vitality.
Kantonian Form : Because they scatter germs everywhere, they’ve long been targeted for extermination, leading to a steep decline in their population. Alolan Form : What look like fangs and claws are actually crystallized poison that will afflict you at a mere touch, so don’t get too close.
Kantonian Form : Smells so awful, it can cause fainting. Through degeneration of its nose, it lost its sense of smell. Alolan Form : Muk's coloration becomes increasingly vivid the more it feasts on its favorite dish–trash.
A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid kills plants and trees immediately upon contact.
Kantonian Form : It’s thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison. Alolan Form : There are over a hundred kinds of poison inside its body. Chemical reactions between different poisons are the source of its vitality.
Kantonian Form : It's so stinky! Muk's body contains toxic elements, and any plant will wilt when it passes by. Alolan Form : What look like fangs and claws are actually crystallized poison that will afflict you at a mere touch, so don’t get too close.
In the anime, Ash has a Muk after he caught it to restore the power of a town. In the episode The Fourth Round Rumble , he later used it to battle a Bellsprout owned by a trainer called Jeanette , and was able to beat it thanks to Muk being able to absorb all of Bellsprout's attacks. Finally Muk was able to finish off Bellsprout and win with a Body Slam.
Muk is based on liquid toxic waste, sewage , or pools of acid . It may also be based on mutated monsters which are often speculated to be created from pollution, especially of toxic waste . It also appears similar to the monster Hedorah of the Japanese Godzilla Series.
Alolan Muk is likely based on an oil slick due to its rainbow colors. Oil slicks are also a threat to Hawaii (the region Alola is based on), especially in its oceans. The crystals attached to Alolan Muk most likely resemble sea glass , a type of glass worn down through physical and chemical changes and is usually found on beaches.
Muk is a corruption of the word muck , which refers to dirt and garbage.
Betobeton comes from ベトベト (betobeto, sticky) and ton .
Shellder is protected by its two large shells. Its large tongue is always kept hanging out. It has two large eyes inside the shell.
Shellder live on the sea floor, digging holes with their tongues and hiding in them with their tongues out to catch prey. Their tongues are never withdrawn, even when sleeping. Yanking on them will cause them to open up in shock. Shellder can move surprisingly quickly by flapping their shells. They can also lampoon prey with Icicle Spear . Shellder enjoy eating Slowpoke tail secretions and will bite these tails on sight. They then adopt a spiral shape and inject poison as the Slowpoke evolve into Slowbro . They are also oddly attracted to King's Rocks . If a Slowpoke is wearing one, a Shellder may propel itself into the air to bite onto the King's Rock after wearing it on top of its head, triggering its evolution into a Slowking .
Shellder can have the ability Shell Armor or the ability Skill Link . Shell Armor prevents Shellder's opponents from getting a Critical Hit on Shellder. Skill Link increases the frequency of multi-hitting attacks. As a last resort, Shellder clamps on to its opponents. It swims backward by opening and closing its two shells.
It is said (in the anime & in-game Pokédex entries) that if a Shellder clamps onto a Slowpoke's tail, the Slowpoke will evolve into Slowbro (the Shellder changes shape with it). Also if a Shellder clamps on Slowpoke's head while wearing a King's Rock, the Slowpoke will evolve into a Slowking. According to Slowking's Pokédex entries, when the Slowpoke's head is bitten, toxins enter the Slowpoke's head (and into its brain), unlocking extraordinary power and triggering evolution. These same toxins also causes a Slowbro to no longer be able to feel pain.
According to Slowbro & Slowking's Pokédex entries, the Shellder's produce toxins that affect either their victims brain (in Slowking's case) or their nervous system (in Slowbro's case). It is also said that if a Slowbro's or Slowking's Shellder is removed or detached it (Slowbro/Slowking) will revert (devolve) back to a regular Slowpoke.
Also, it is said that Shellder's tend to latch on to a Slowpoke if it is holding a King's Rock (a reference to Slowking's requirements for evolving).
Upon the Slowpoke's evolution, the Shellder changes it form into either Slowbro's shell (attached to Slowbro's tail) or a Slowking's crown. In its crown form, the Shellder eyes are located on it backside (which can be easily seen by the player character when a Slowking is used in battle), basically giving Slowking eyes in the back of its head.
Shellder are known to be prey for many Pokémon such as Kingler , which use their giant claws, Omastar , which use their fangs, Rufflet , which use their talons, and Bruxish , which use their teeth all to crack open its shell.
Shellder evolves into Cloyster if it touches a Water Stone .
Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open.
The shell can withstand any attack. However, when it is open, the tender body is exposed.
It swims facing backward by opening and closing its two-piece shell. It is surprisingly fast.
Grains of sand trapped in its shells mix with its body fluids to form beautiful pearls.
Clamping on to an opponent reveals its vulnerable parts, so it uses this move only as a last resort.
At night, this Pokémon uses its broad tongue to burrow a hole in the seafloor sand and then sleep in it. While it is sleeping, Shellder closes its shell, but leaves its tongue hanging out.
It is encased in a shell that is harder than diamond. Inside, however, it is surprisingly tender.
At night, it burrows a hole in the seafloor with its broad tongue to make a place to sleep. While asleep, it closes its shell, but leaves its tongue hanging out.
It swims backward by opening and closing its two shells. Its large tongue is always kept hanging out.
The hardness of its shell surpasses the hardness of a diamond. In days gone by, people used the shells to make shields.
This Pokémon’s tongue is always hanging out. It uses its tongue with great dexterity to dig up sand from the seabed in its search for food.
The sand that accumulates inside its shell eventually becomes a pearl. But the pearl gets in the way, so it spits it out and discards it.
Even when its shell is closed, its tongue still hangs out. If you give its tongue a good yank, the shock will cause Shellder to open its shell.
It is based off of a bivalve clam with its tongue representing the "foot" of a clam (a part of a clam often mistaken for a tongue). The fact it bites onto Slowpoke and produces toxins into them may make it based off of a leech as well.
Shellder is a mix of shell or shelled and shelter .
Cloyster is actually a black pearl within two shells. The first shell is purple and rugged, while the second shell is gray. When the second shell is opened, a spike is revealed. Its face has a cruel look upon it.
To catch food, Cloyster wait on the ocean floor for prey swim by before shooting these spikes by using the move Spike Cannon. The harpooned prey then slowly float down to the waiting Cloyster. Like Shellder, Cloyster love Slowpoke tails, and may even venture onto land to seek them out. Cloyster are capable of swimming by swallowing water and jetting it out—this is the same process they use to shoot spikes. They can slam their shells shut with incredible force. Unlike Shellder, Cloyster can use clamping as a viable method of defense. Their insides are virtually untouchable while their shells are closed. Even the strongest forces cannot pry a clamped Cloyster apart; consequently, no one knows exactly what lies within their shells. It has been recently discovered that Cloyster that live in stronger currents have larger spikes, though the reason behind this is unknown. A concurrent study found that when a Cloyster shell is damaged, a new spike grows in place of the damaged area instead of recovering the flat surface.
Cloyster's shell is extremely solid. It fights by keeping its shell tightly shut for protection, and by shooting spikes to repel foes.
Cloyster evolves from Shellder if it touches a Water Stone .
Trade (LeafGreen)
When attacked, it launches its horns in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen.
For protection, it uses its harder-than-diamonds shell. It also shoots spikes from the shell.
Once it slams its shell shut, it is impossible to open, even by those with superior strength.
Cloyster that live in seas with harsh tidal currents grow large, sharp spikes on their shells.
Even a missile can't break the spikes it uses to stab opponents. They're even harder than its shell.
Cloyster is capable of swimming in the sea. It does so by swallowing water, then jetting it out toward the rear. This Pokémon shoots spikes from its shell using the same system.
Its shell is extremely hard. It cannot be shattered, even with a bomb. The shell opens only when it is attacking.
It swims in the sea by swallowing water, then jetting it out toward the rear. The Cloyster shoots spikes from its shell using the same system.
It fights by keeping its shell tightly shut for protection and by shooting spikes to repel foes.
Its hard shell cannot be shattered-not even by a bomb. The contents of the shell remain unknown.
Excavation of the tombs of ancient hunting tribes has turned up many spears tipped with spikes that had fallen off this Pokémon shells.
If areas of Cloyster’s very hard shell get damaged, those areas swell, gradually growing into large sharp spikes.
Slowpoke tails are its favorite food. It has even been known to come up on land to look for Slowpoke from time to time.
When attacked, it launches its spikes in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen.
Goh's Cloyster.
Cloyster is based on an oyster , possibly one of the Spondylus class due to its many bumps and spines. Its head is based on the pearls that clams can produce.
Cloyster comes from clamp , clam and oyster . It is also a play on the word cloister (to protect onerself).
Gastly's appearance consists of a dark sphere (its "head") surrounded by light purple gas. Gastly has large, white eyes and a large mouth with a small pair of fangs.
They capture prey by enveloping them in their poisonous gas, which can seep through skin and cause fainting. They may also immobilize prey with the paralyzing move Lick. Despite their poor reputation, though, Gastly are not blatantly malicious and do not “haunt” beings with the intent of harming them. Instead, they are mischievous pranksters who enjoy startling others. They rarely utilize their poisonous gases unless threatened, but are known to put victims to sleep with Hypnosis. Their pranks can be annoying at times, so it should be noted that oscillating fans are very effective at warding Gastly away because the Pokémon steer clear of strong winds. When Gastly are near, it is said the air will smell faintly sweet.
Due to having a body made of gas, Gastly can slip into any place it wants. However, Gastly's body will dwindle away when exposed to a strong wind. It can also render itself nearly invisible and approach enemies undetected, and can envelop said enemies, regardless of their size.
Due to the fact that Gastly's body can be blown away by strong wind, they gather under the eaves of houses in order to escape it.
Gastly evolves into Haunter starting at level 25 and then evolves into Gengar if traded .
Max Raid Battle : Giant's Cap , Giant's Mirror , Hammerlocke Hills, Motostoke Riverbank , South Lake Miloch , Stony Wilderness , Watchtower Ruins
Almost invisible, this gaseous Pokémon cloaks the target and puts it to sleep without notice.
Said to appear in decrepit, deserted buildings. It has no real shape as it appears to be made of a gas.
With its gas-like body, it can sneak into any place it desires. However, it can be blown away by wind.
Its thin body is made of gas. It can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation.
It wraps its opponent in its gas-like body, slowly weakening its prey by poisoning it through the skin.
Gastly is largely composed of gaseous matter. When exposed to a strong wind, the gaseous body quickly dwindles away. Groups of this Pokémon cluster under the eaves of houses to escape the ravages of wind.
A being that exists as a thin gas. It can topple an Indian elephant by enveloping the prey in two seconds.
When exposed to a strong wind, a Gastly's gaseous body quickly dwindles away. They cluster under the eaves of houses to escape the ravages of wind.
This Pokémon's body is 95% made up of gases, which are blown away by strong gusts of wind.
A Pokémon born from poison gases. It defeats even the largest foes by enveloping them in gas.
Born from gases, anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison.
Its body is made of gas. Despite lacking substance, it can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation.
Should a strange light be seen flickering in an abandoned building. Gastly is lurking there.
Although Gastly is barely visible, when it's near, a faint sweet smell lingers.
It’s said that gas emanating from a graveyard was possessed by the grievances of the deceased and thus became a Pokémon.
Poisonous gas comprises 95% of its body. It’s said that the remaining 5% is made up of the souls of those who died from the gas.
Said to appear in decrepit, deserted buildings. It has no real shape, as it appears to be made of a gas.
This Pokémon's body is 95 percent made up of gases. The Pokémon can be blown away by strong gusts of wind.
It's a Pokémon born from poison gases. It defeats even the largest foes by enveloping them in gas.
Gaseous and completely impalpable. Also highly dangerous—inhaling part of its poisonous body will cause one to faint instantly.
It's born from gases. Anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison.
A Gastly in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS
Gastly appears as an enemy in the Smash Run mode of Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS . Because Gastlys are covered in poisonous gas, they can only take damage from projectiles. A Gastly can damage players on contact, and will sometimes follow them.
Like every other enemy in Smash Run mode, Gastly is also featured in the form of a trophy.
Gastly appears to be based on ghosts , specifically those often depicted as decapitated heads, which are often seen in Japanese mythology. It may also be based on a will-o-the-wisp , seeing how its gas resembles fire and its Shiny coloration has its gas turn blue, which are a common color given to will-o-wisps in media. Its poison gas may be based on bad omens and how they can bring sickness.
Gastly is based on the words ghastly and gas .
Haunter is a purple, spiky, floating figure with triangular eyes, tiny pupils, fangs and disembodied, three-fingered, clawed hands.
They feed on the life force of living things, waiting in the darkness for unwary prey to wander by. Then, they sneak up on their victims and lick them. This causes uncontrollable shuddering in their prey, who are slowly drained of life until they die. Like Gastly, Haunter are also pranksters. They may trip unwary travelers or place ghostly hands on their shoulders to scare them. When a Haunter is around, those nearby feel paranoid, as if they are being watched (which they are). Haunter can also feed on fear. Though research has shown that such a diet is not very energy-efficient, it is believed that some Haunter have learned to feed on these feelings because they are "sustainable"; by not killing victims, some Haunter have successfully used cities as “farms” of sorts, scaring people as necessary and feeding on their fright. Many ghost “hot-spots” are in fact popular Haunter feeding grounds. Since Haunter detest light, well-lit towns are usually devoid of them. In some regions is said that Haunter come out on moonless nights looking for victims to lay curses on.
Haunter can pass through solid walls. It is because of this that it is believed it is from another dimension. It can also sap away the life force of a target by licking them with its tongue. These licks will always cause constant convulsions to a licked being until it dies.
Haunter evolves from Gastly starting at level 25 and evolves into Gengar if traded .
Max Raid Battle : Giant's Cap , Giant's Mirror , Hammerlocke Hills , Motostoke Riverbank , South Lake Miloch , Stony Wilderness , Watchtower Ruins
Because of its ability to slip through block walls, it is said to be from another dimension.
By licking, it saps the victim's life. It causes shaking that won't stop until the victim's demise.
In total darkness, where nothing is visible, Haunter lurks, silently stalking its next victim.
Its tongue is made of gas. If licked, its victim starts shaking constantly until death eventually comes.
It hides in the dark, planning to take the life of the next living thing that wanders close by.
Haunter is a dangerous Pokémon. If one beckons you while floating in darkness, you must never approach it. This Pokémon will try to lick you with its tongue and steal your life away.
If you get the feeling of being watched in darkness when nobody is around, Haunter is there.
If a Haunter beckons you while it is floating in darkness, don't approach it. This Pokémon will try to lick you with its tongue and steal your life away.
It can slip through any obstacle. It lurks inside walls to keep an eye on its foes.
It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal the victim's life force. It lurks in darkness for prey.
It likes to lurk in the dark and tap shoulders with a gaseous hand. Its touch causes endless shuddering.
It strikes at humans from total darkness. Those licked by its cold tongue grow weaker with each passing day until they die.
It fears the light and revels in the dark. It may be on the verge of extinction in cities that stay brightly lit at night.
On moonless nights, Haunter searches for someone to curse, so it’s best not to go out walking around.
It’s dangerous to go outside alone on nights when you’re feeling sad. Haunter will catch you, and you won’t be able to go back home.
It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal its victim's life-force. It lurks in darkness, waiting for prey.
This frightful, malevolent spirit can glide through walls, appearing wherever it likes. According to rumor, victims of a Haunter's lick will wither to death day by day.
It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal its victim's life force. It lurks in darkness, waiting for prey.
Haunter appears to be based on ghosts . It may also be based on depictions of ghosts in Japanese mythology, which are often depicted with long tongues. It may also be based on the Philippine myth of the Dila, a spirit known for licking ill people (possibly where it gets its Poison -type from) until death. Its Poison -type may also come from bad omens and how they can bring sickness.
Haunter may come from haunt , specter , and hunter . It may also literally be the word haunter .
Gengar is a shadow-like, round-bodied Pokémon with two large, pointed ears and short spikes lining its back. Gengar has two red eyes and a toothy, sinister smile. It has claws on its hands. Gengar stands on its two short legs, but it can Levitate as well.
In Mega Gengar, it has a hot pink smoke around it, a third yellow eye, and its hands are buried in the ground. It also has more spikes on its back and tail.
In Gigantamax Gengar, it has grown much larger. Its red eyes have turned yellow with soulless white pupils and the body has remained mostly the same aside from the absence of visible physical feet and detached hands that are in the ground. It has a massive mouth that resembles some sort of room with a long tongue inside.
Gengar are typically mean-spirited and enjoy tormenting people by hurting them and overtaking them. They are most active during full moons, creeping out in the dead of night and disguising themselves as shadows; they may even enters sleeping homes to lurk in the dark. They will mimic every movement their targets make until they lower their guards. Then, they strike, draining their victims' life force as sustenance.
Gengar are also said to attack those who are hopelessly lost and afraid in the mountains. Many Gengar have learned to feed on fear, simply following victims in the shadows and mimicking them almost, but not quite perfectly. This cultivates great paranoia in victims, which they can then feast on. Other tricks Gengar have been known to use include: laughing maniacally in the shadows, lighting their red eyes in the darkness, and chanting mysteriously in the distance. In some places, parents warn that Gengar appear at night in the bedrooms of naughty children. A famous folk tale tells of a Gengar that once used to be human, attacking people so it could have a friend.
In spite of their infamous insidiousness and cruelty, domesticated Gengar that are being kindly looked after by their trainers are much friendlier, and their smiles appear to be less creepy.
This Pokémon hides in the shadows. It is said that if a Gengar is hiding, it cools the area by nearly 10 °F. When there is a Full Moon, Gengar like to scare people by pretending to be their shadow, then laugh at their fear. They can absorb any surrounding heat, leaving a sudden chill. To steal the life of their targets, they slip into the prey's shadow and silently waits for an opportunity. Gengar are also able to merge with and inhabit the shadow of another being.
Additionally, Gengar can cast curses on their victims, simply to immobilize them in extreme agony and pain as a means for Gengar themselves to strike easily.
Gengar evolves from Haunter if traded and is the final evolution of Gastly . Gengar can Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar using its Gengarite , and can also Gigantamax into Gigantamax Gengar .
Gengar may have been based on the Oni , a creature of ancient Japanese folklore that was said to float invisibly above cities, bringing anything from a natural disaster like an earthquake to a terrible disease. It also appears to be based off the Cheshire Cat . Its name is possibly based off "doppelgänger". Gengar also seems to be based on demons, due to the horns on its head.
Gengar may come from genganger , a word used to describe spirits in Scandinavian mythology. It may also come from doppelgänger .
Onix is a Rock Snake Pokémon. Its serpentine body is made up of large gray boulders and little pebbles. It has a long horn atop its head and small eyes.
Onix spend most of their time burrowing through the earth, twisting and turning their massive bodies as they dig. They constantly eat while burrowing, consuming boulders, dirt, and whatever else they come across. These tunnels often later become homes and pathways for other subterranean Pokémon, such as Diglett and Druddigon .
Onix can have the abilities Rock Head or Sturdy . Rock Head prevents Onix from recoiling, while Sturdy gives Onix immunity to OHKO moves . When it is burrowing underground, it can cause rumbles and earthquakes. It can dig at speeds up to 50 MPH. It has a compass in its brain that can tell Onix what direction it is facing.
Onix evolves into Steelix if it is traded while holding a Metal Coat .
As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to a diamond, but colored black.
Burrows at high speed in search of food. The tunnels it leaves are used as homes by Diglett.
It twists and squirms through the ground. The thunderous roar of its tunneling echoes a long way.
It rapidly bores through the ground at 50 mph by squirming and twisting its massive, rugged body.
As it digs through the ground, it absorbs many hard objects. This is what makes its body so solid.
Onix has a magnet in its brain. It acts as a compass so that this Pokémon does not lose direction while it is tunneling. As it grows older, its body becomes increasingly rounder and smoother.
It usually lives underground. It searches for food while boring its way through the ground at 50 miles per hour.
As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to black-colored diamonds.
There is a magnet in its brain that prevents an Onix from losing direction while tunneling. As it grows older, its body becomes steadily rounder and smoother.
When it travels underground, it causes rumbling and tremors. It can move at 50 mph.
It squirms through the ground using its long and rugged body. It always eats while burrowing.
It burrows through the ground at a speed of 50 mph while feeding on large boulders.
Flying through the darkness, it weakens enemies with ultrasonic waves that could crush stone. Its fangs finish the fight.
This chain of immense stones resembles a giant serpent. Tremors shake the earth above as it burrows deep beneath the ground, feeding on boulders as it goes.
It usually lives underground. It searches for food while boring its way through the ground at 50 mph.
Brock received an Onix from his father, Flint, on his 10th birthday, as seen in a flashback in Having a Wailord of a Time . Onix was Brock's first Pokémon and has consistently been his most powerful Pokémon as well. Brock uses this in some occasions during his travels with Ash and Misty. In Pokémon Chronicles, Brock uses Onix for the last time to battle against his ditsy mother, Lola who is responsible for remodeling the Gym and her Mantine to put the Gym back to its former glory. Brock lent his Onix to his younger brother, Forrest until it evolves into Steelix in Grating Spaces! under his care.
The Crystal Onix's first and only appearance is in the anime episode The Crystal Onix . Ash and his friends first heard of it through a note they found in a bottle floating in the ocean. The note was written by a little girl named Marissa. She wanted to find the Crystal Onix to help her brother, Mateo, gain inspiration to make glass Pokémon statues. Mateo told a story of how his grandfather discovered the Crystal Onix and then was able to make extraordinary sculptures afterwards. One of those sculptures included the Crystal Onix itself. In the Best Wishes series during the episode of, Expedition to Onix Island! , a shiny Onix is the leader of several normal Onix in the Onix Island. When Ash and his group are chased by most of the normal Onix, Meloetta did her best to sing her song to calm them down but its no effect until a shiny Onix loudly roars to stop them which causes all of the normal Onix leave and allowing Ash and the group to see its shiny Onix before leaving back to Cynthia's resthouse.
The most powerful Onix after both Brock and Roark was Grant's Onix which it was seen in his battle against Viola's Surskit at the Battle Chateau and its Gym battle against Ash's Froakie by trapping its opponents using Rock Tomb .
Onix is based on a snake and/or an earthworm . It may also be a pun on the terms "rock python."
Its name comes from "Onyx," a black stone that is commonly used in jewelry.
Iwāku comes from 岩 (iwa, rock) and possibly the root "arc," meaning "ruler."
Drowzee is a tapir-like Pokémon that is mostly yellow. The bottom half of its body is covered in mud, as if it was bathing in it. When Drowzee uses Hypnosis , its eyes glow a light blue.
Drowzee consume dreams—especially those of young children and Pokémon, as they are said to be tastier than those of adults. For this reason, they can sometimes be found lurking outside daycares or kindergartens during naptime.There are many "signs" people believe Drowzee leave after eating dreams. For example, an itchy nose upon waking may mean one has sucked up a dream through your nostrils, or having a good dream but not remembering it means that it has been consumed. Drowzee (save for trained ones) rarely live near people, however, preferring to feed on the dreams of Pokémon in the grasslands that they call home. They get sick from bad dreams (which are said to taste sour), so they uses their noses to differentiate between good dreams and nightmares. Trained Drowzee can show people their dreams upon awakening.
Drowzee can have the ability Forewarn or the ability Insomnia . Forewarn allows Drowzee to identify the opponent's strongest move. Insomnia gives Drowzee immunity to sleeping. It is skilled in hypnotism. After it makes a target asleep, it will eat their dreams. Fun dreams are Drowzee's favorite, while bad dreams can make Drowzee ill.
Drowzee evolves into Hypno starting at level 26.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness and Sky , Drowzee is a wanted outlaw as he kidnaps Azurill to the Mt. Bristle peak and manipulates and threatens him. Eventually, Azurill is rescued and Drowzee serves time in prison for these crimes. Later, when Drowzee is released, he helps Azurill, who at that point falls into an endless nightmare that Azurill cannot wake up from. Drowzee repairs and rebuilds his relationship with Azurill and Marill and becomes good friends with them.
Puts enemies to sleep then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating bad dreams.
If you sleep by it all the time, it will sometimes show you dreams it has eaten in the past.
If you think that you had a good dream, but you can't remember it, a Drowzee has probably eaten it.
It remembers every dream it eats. It rarely eats the dreams of adults because children's are much tastier.
When it twitches its nose, it can tell where someone is sleeping and what that person is dreaming about.
If your nose becomes itchy while you are sleeping, it's a sure sign that one of these Pokémon is standing above your pillow and trying to eat your dream through your nostrils.
A descendant of the legendary animal baku, which is said to eat dreams. It is skilled at hypnotism.
Puts enemies to sleep, then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating bad dreams.
If your nose becomes itchy while you are sleeping, it's a sure sign that a Drowzee is standing above your pillow and trying to eat your dream through your nostrils.
It can tell what people are dreaming by sniffing with its big nose. It loves fun dreams.
If you think that you had a good dream but you can't remember it, a Drowzee has probably eaten it.
Puts enemies to sleep, then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating only bad dreams.
A Pokémon that nourishes itself by eating dreams, it is thought to share ancestry with Munna and Musharna.
It finds really fun dreams tasty. When it makes friends with people, it may show them the most delicious dreams it's ever had.
It can be spotted near recreational facilities, intending to eat the pleasant dreams of children who enjoyed themselves there that day.
It puts its prey to sleep and devours their dreams. It seems that bad dreams taste sour, so Drowzee doesn’t particularly like eating them.
If you sleep by it all the time, it will sometimes show you dreams it had eaten in the past.
It remembers every dream it eats. It rarely eats the dreams of adults because children’s are much tastier.
Drowzee is based on a tapir , a trunked, pig-like, Asian and South American animal. In Japanese folklore, a creature resembling a tapir called Baku would eat dreams as people slept. The name, Baku , even means "dream eater". This may be where Drowzee's dream eating ability comes from.
Its English name may be a corruption of "Drowsy" (to feel sleepy) and may also include "z" (the letter associated to sleep).
Its Japanese name, officially romanized as Sleep, is literally the word sleep .
Hypno is a human-like Pokémon with yellow skin. On the top of its head are large, catlike ears. Its eyes are usually squinted, and lower down. It also has a large nose. On its neck, Hypno has a large white mane, which stretches completely around. Hypno also has human-like arms and hands, which both have five digits. It is also always carrying a small pendulum, which it uses in most of its Psychic based attacks.
Shiny Hypno have pink skin instead of yellow.
Female Hypno have longer collar-fur than the males.
Hypno only prey on dreams, so captives generally return physically unharmed. Their swinging pendulums cause drowsiness even in onlookers that have just awoken. The longer one stares at the mesmerizing oscillations, the longer the effect last. Hypno are reliant on their pendulums for their powers, and having it damaged or destroyed can cause severe shock and depression for them. [2] Trained Hypno are of great use to doctors to help treat insomnia in patients.
In the Alola region, wild Hypno do not usually attack humans, as the perpetually sleeping Komalas are a much easier target for them.
Seeing its sweeping pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up. Hypno have both the abilities Forewarn and Insomnia . Insomnia will prevent the user from falling asleep while Forewarn will show the attack of an opponent with the highest attack power.
All Hypno also have the skills to cause anything to fall asleep, and also have a high amount of power in hypnotic abilities.
Hypno evolves from Drowzee starting at level 26.
When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of PSI moves such as Hypnosis and Confusion.
Avoid eye contact if you come across one. It will try to put you to sleep by using its pendulum.
When it is very hungry, it puts humans it meets to sleep, then it feasts on their dreams.
Always holding a pendulum that it rocks at a steady rhythm, it causes drowsiness in anyone nearby.
The longer it swings its pendulum, the longer the effects of its hypnosis last.
Hypno holds a pendulum in its hand. The arcing movement and glitter of the pendulum lull the foe into a deep state of hypnosis. While this Pokémon searches for prey, it polishes the pendulum.
It carries a pendulum-like device. There once was an incident in which it took away a child it hypnotized.
The arcing movement and glitter of the pendulum in a Hypno's hand lull the foe into deep hypnosis. While searching for prey, it polishes the pendulum.
Seeing its swinging pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up.
When it is very hungry, it puts humans it meets to sleep, then feasts on their dreams.
While it is an extremely dangerous Pokémon, people who are in need of a good, sound sleep call it their savior.
As a matter of course, it makes anyone it meets fall asleep and has a taste of their dreams. Anyone having a good dream, it carries off.
In Alola, Komala is Hypno’s main target. It rarely harms people.
There are some Hypno that assist doctors with patients who can’t sleep at night in hospitals.
When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of psi moves, such as Hypnosis and Confusion .
Always holding a pendulum that it swings at a steady rhythm, it causes drowsiness in anyone nearby.
Hypno may be based on tapirs , seeing how its pre-evolution resembles one and they are often associated with sleep and dreams in Japanese mythology, especially the Baku , a spirit in Japanese mythology that resembles a tapir and eats the dreams of those who call upon it. Its appearance is also similar to that of a goblin .
Hypno's English name is taken from the part, Hypno of the word of Hypnosis .
Concept artwork of Krabby.
Krabby is a River Crab Pokémon. It is red on top and mostly tan on the bottom. Its signature feature are the two long pincers it has.
Krabby is an omnivore and a scavenger; it rarely hunts for itself. It can also act as a filter feeder by harmonizing bacteria in the sand, but this is rare. It is territorial, and in beaches where there is little food, fights between Krabby are common. Krabby also uses camouflage; it can form mucus sacs around itself if threatened, making it seem larger or making it harder to spot against sea sand. It is usually very small, but it makes up for this with its aggressiveness.
Krabby can have the ability Hyper Cutter or Shell Armor . Hyper Cutter prevents Krabby's attack from decreasing. Shell Armor prevents all critical hits towards Krabby. If one of its arms break off, it can grow a new one back. They are usually found under the sand in beaches.
Krabby evolves into Kingler starting at level 28.
Max Raid Battle : Dusty Bowl , Giant's Cap, Giant's Mirror , North Lake Miloch , South Lake Miloch, West Lake Axewell
Its pincers are not only powerful weapons, they are used for balance when walking sideways.
Its pincers are superb weapons. They sometimes break off during battle, but they grow back fast.
If it senses danger approaching, it cloaks itself with bubbles from its mouth so it will look bigger.
The pincers break off easily. If it loses a pincer, it somehow becomes incapable of walking sideways.
If it is unable to find food, it will absorb nutrients by swallowing a mouthful of sand.
Krabby live on beaches, burrowed inside holes dug into the sand. On sandy beaches with little in the way of food, these Pokémon can be seen squabbling with each other over territory.
It can be found near the sea. The large pincers grow back if they are torn out of their sockets.
Krabby live in holes dug into beaches. On sandy shores with little in the way of food, they can be seen squabbling with each other over territory.
It lives in burrows dug on sandy beaches. Its pincers fully grow back if they are broken in battle.
It lives in burrows dug on sandy beaches. Its pincers fully grow back if they are lost in battle.
Krabby is based on a crab of some sort.
Krabby comes from "crabby" (grouchy).
Kurabu is literally just the English word "crab" transcribed into Japanese.
Kingler is a crab Pokémon. It has a 5 spiked crest on top of its head and more teeth on its mandible than Krabby. It has two pincers with different sizes.
When it Gigantamaxes, it gains a foam beard and its eyes turn red. Its arms and legs become longer and spikier. Like other Dynamax Pokémon, it gains three swirling red clouds around its head.
Kingler possess a large pincer that boasts huge amounts of strength equal to 10,000 horsepower of crushing force. However, the pincer is quite heavy and is difficult to wield, leaving Kingler exhausted after being used. Out of battle, these large claw aren't very efficient for most everyday tasks, so they tend to use their smaller ones instead. When signaling to fellow Kingler or competing for dominance, however, they will wave their larger claws wildly in the air (a very tiring action for them).
Gigantamax Kingler is capable of producing bubbles that are high in alkaline content. Anyone who touches these bubbles will be melted down.
Kingler evolves from Krabby starting at level 28. Kingler can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Kingler .
The large pincer has 10,000-horsepower crushing force. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use.
One claw grew massively and as hard as steel. It has 10,000-HP strength. However, it is too heavy.
It can hardly lift its massive, overgrown pincer. The pincers size makes it difficult to aim properly.
Its pincers grow peculiarly large. If it lifts the pincers too fast, it loses its balance and staggers.
Its over sized claw is very powerful, but when it's not in battle, the claw just gets in the way.
Kingler has an enormous, over sized claw. It waves this huge claw in the air to communicate with others. However, because the claw is so heavy, the Pokémon quickly tires.
Its large and hard pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, being so big, it is unwieldy to move.
The larger pincer has 10,000- horsepower crushing force. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use.
It waves its huge, over sized claw in the air to communicate with others. But since the claw is so heavy, this Pokémon quickly tires.
The larger pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is so heavy, it is difficult to aim.
Kingler has an enormous, oversized claw. It waves this huge claw in the air to communicate with others. However, because the claw is so heavy, the Pokémon quickly tires.
One claw grew massively and is as hard as steel. It has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is too heavy.
Its large and hard pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, being so big, it is unwieldy to move. Gigantamax : The flow of Gigantamax energy has spurred this Pokémon's left pincer to grow to an enormous size. That claw can pulverize anything.
Its oversized claw is very powerful, but when it's not in battle, the claw just gets in the way. Gigantamax : The bubbles it spews out are strongly alkaline. Any opponents hit by them will have their bodies quickly melted away.
Ash has a Kingler, which evolved from his Krabby after a battle against an Exeggutor in the Indigo Plateau Conference.
Kingler is based on a fiddler crab . Its Gigantamax form is based on the Japanese spider crab . Also, it might be based on a king due to its name and bubble beard.
"Kingler" is a mix of the words "king" and "fiddler" (two species of crab).
Voltorb is a Pokémon that looks like a large Poké Ball . Spherical in shape, Voltorb's top half is colored red while its bottom half is white. Voltorb does not have much else in features besides its eyes, which usually indicate that it is angry.
Voltorb's Hisuian form instead resembles the ancient Pokeballs of the era, with a hole on top, akin to Wailord 's spout. Their body surfaces' texture is akin to the one of wood-grain.
Voltorb have very volatile temperaments that induce their explosions. They are generally found in power plants and other areas with electric fields where it feeds. The species was first discovered in the plant where modern Poké Balls were invented. Notably, Alpha Sapphire's Pokédex entry for Voltorb contains a conspiracy theory about how it was a Poké Ball exposed to an energy pulse.
Power plants, and areas with electrical activity are where they are commonly spotted.
Its Hisuian form are friendlier and more excitable, tending to cluster around people and Pokémon, which prove a nuisance when they Discharge even out of a slight provocation. Therefore, people tend to temporarily plug the hole on Hisuian Voltorb's head and kicking it out of their settlements.
Forests and fields are where Hisuian Voltorb reside in.
This Pokémon looks just like a Poké Ball, but it is also dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on touch, to Voltorb's assailant after a contact move defeats it.
Hisiuan Voltorb contain numerous seeds, though it is impossible to examine these seeds. They discharge stored electricity from the hole on top of their bodies.
Voltorb evolves into Electrode starting at level 30. Hisuian Voltorb evolves into Hisuian Electrode if it touches a Leaf Stone .
Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a Poké Ball, it has zapped many people.
It is said to camouflage itself as a Poké Ball. It will self-destruct with very little stimulus.
It rolls to move. If the ground is uneven, a sudden jolt from hitting a bump can cause it to explode.
It was discovered when Poké Balls were introduced. It is said that there is some connection.
During the study of this Pokémon, it was discovered that its components are not found in nature.
Voltorb was first sighted at a company that manufactures Poké Balls. The link between that sighting and the fact that this Pokémon looks very similar to a Poké Ball remains a mystery.
Voltorb is extremely sensitive - it explodes at the slightest of shocks. It is rumored that it was first created when a Poké Ball was exposed to a powerful pulse of energy.
A life-form whose identity is unknown. It is said to screech or suddenly selfdestruct.
It bears an uncanny and unexplained resemblance to a Poké Ball. Because it explodes at the slightest shock, even veteran trainers treat it with caution.
It looks just like a Poké Ball. It is dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on touch.
Voltorb is extremely sensitive-it explodes at the slightest of shocks. It is rumored that it was first created when a Poké Ball was exposed to a powerful pulse of energy.
Voltorb is based on a Poké Ball. It more resembles the version in the series' roots (Capsule monsters). In a meta sense, it may be based on the "mimic enemy" archetype common in video games, where an enemy disguises itself as a useful item to lure players into combat, similar to Foongus . Its round shape and tendency to self destruct may make it based on a bomb , as well as self destruct buttons (which are colored red most of the time, and Voltorb is listed as red ). It may also be based on the Tsukumogami species of yōkai, inanimate objects that gain a spirit/sentience upon their 100th year of existence (which may also be referenced by how Voltorb is #100 in the National Pokédex). The species' unpredictable tendency to explode, as well as its shape and name, may be a reference to ball lightning.
Its Hisuian form is largely based on the design of Poké Balls in Hisui while also being based on the "mimic" archetype that Kantonian Voltorb are based on. It may also be based the fact that Poké Balls can be made using Apricorns .
Voltorb is a portmanteau of "volt" (the unit of electrical potential) and "orb" (a sphere).
Biriridama is a portmanteau of ビリビリ (biribiri, onomatopoeia for electrical shocks) and 玉 (tama, ball).
Electrode is a spherical Pokémon that bears a resemblance to an upside-down Poké Ball. Its top half is white, and its bottom half is red. Electrode has two small beady black eyes, large prominent eyebrows, and a wide mischievously grinning mouth.
Shiny Kantonian Electrode have the red replaced with blue.
Electrode also resembles the upside-down Poké Balls of the time period, with a wooden pattern on its top half. Its eyes are large black holes inside a debossed pattern resembling an angry glare. Its lower half is dark red with a constant frown. Interestingly, its surface tissue is similar to that of an Apricorn.
Shiny Hisuian Electrode have the red replaced dark gray.
Electrode is an unpredictable and volatile Pokémon that will explode with little or no stimuli or provocation. It stores much electricity inside its spherical body, and often drifts on winds, full to bursting with stored electricity. It is feared by many due to its explosive and unpredictable nature.
As shown in the fourth episode of Pokémon Generations, Electrode is capable of levitating.
These Pokémon convert solar energy into electricity and store it in their abdomens. When angered, they release this energy into currents that arc in the surrounding air, said to be equal in strength to 20 lightning bolts. After a Hisuian Electrode lets loose, the surrounding land is often totally scorched with the air still crackling, a telltale sign of its presence. If their holes are plugged, they become unable to release this energy until it builds up enough to pop the plug free.
Hisuian Electrode, though not as irritable as their relatives, were still feared in Hisui due to their ability to destroy entire villages at once. According to legend, one settlement grew so tired of these Pokémon that they shipped them far away to a distant region, where they could never return. It is here that these Electrode grew bitter and temperamental, eventually becoming the Voltorb and Electrode common in other parts of the world.
Electrode evolves from Voltorb starting at level 30. Hisuian Electrode evolves from Hisuian Voltorb if it touches a Leaf Stone .
It stores electric energy under very high pressure. It often explodes with little or no provocation.
Stores electrical energy inside its body. Even the slightest shock could trigger a huge explosion.
It is dangerous. If it has too much electricity and has nothing to do, it amuses itself by exploding.
It stores an overflowing amount of electric energy inside its body. Even a small shock makes it explode.
The more energy it charges up, the faster it gets. But this also makes it more likely to explode.
Electrode eats electricity in the atmosphere. On days when lightning strikes, you can see this Pokémon exploding all over the place from eating too much electricity.
One of Electrode's characteristics is its attraction to electricity. It is a problematical Pokémon that congregates mostly at electrical power plants to feed on electricity that has just been generated.
It explodes in response to even minor stimuli. It is feared, with the nickname of "The Bomb Ball."
They appear in great numbers at electric power plants. Because they feed on electricity, they cause massive and chaotic blackouts in nearby cities.
It is known to drift on winds if it is bloated to bursting with stored electricity.
Hisuian Form: The tissue on the surface of its body is curiously similar in composition to an Apricorn. When irritated, this Pokémon lets loose an electric current equal to 20 lightning bolts
In the original Smash Bros. Electrode would appear from the doorway atop the Silph Co. building on the Saffron City stage and use Explosion, damaging any players near it. In the sequels, it would be released randomly from a Poké Ball. When released, Electrode will pause for a few seconds before using Explosion. It can be picked up and thrown, even though this is risky as Electrode will hurt everyone near it, including the player who threw the Poké Ball. Electrode functions in Brawl in much the same way as in Melee, however, sometimes, it will fail to explode. Other times, Electrode will merely pretend to fail to explode, then explode suddenly after a few seconds. Electrode appears in fourth installment, functioning the same as in Brawl.
Electrode, an electric Ball Pokémon, is the evolved form of Voltorb. It has the tendency to explode with even the slightest provocation, which has earned it the nickname "Wrecking Ball." Electrode is the quickest Pokémon found to date, and its distinctive white-over-red coloring is the opposite of Voltorb's.
"A Ball Pokémon. The more electricity stored in its body, the quicker it moves. One danger of storing that much electricity is the slightest stimulus may cause it to explode. Moves it specializes in are Selfdestruct and Explosion. Its love of electricity cause it to gather near power plants."
NA : An Electric-type Pokémon that stores energy inside its body. Nicknamed "the Bomb Ball" by some, the slightest shock risks setting this Pokémon off. If you're feeling brave, you can throw Electrode at your foes before it detonates. Handle with care, or it'll go off in your hands instead!
PAL : This Electric-type Pokémon stores huge amounts of electricity in its body. It is also known as the Bomb Ball due to the fact that even the lightest touch can make it blow up. Sometimes it takes a little while for Electrode to use its Explosion attack, so you might have enough time to throw it in someone else's direction! Feeling brave?
Although Electrode resembles an upside-down Poké Ball, it is based on a bomb or landmine . It might also draw inspiration from the phenomenon of ball lightning, as the latter is known to drift through the atmosphere and explode when it is full of electricity. It may also be based on the Tsukumogami species of yōkai, inanimate objects that gain a spirit/sentience upon their 100th year of existence. (This is further proven with its pre-evolution, Voltorb, who is #100 in the National Pokédex.) It may take after the mimic-type enemy archetype in RPGs, similar to Amoongus .
It's Hisuian form is largely based on the design of Poké Balls in Hisui while also being based on the "mimic" archetype that Kantonian Electrode are based on. It may also be based the fact that Poké Balls can be made using Apricorns .
Electrode's name appears to come from the actual word electrode , which is a conductor through which electricity enters or leaves. It might also be a combination of electric and explode .
Its Japanese name, Malmine, comes from maru (circle or round) and mine (like a landmine, which are known to explode).
Its German name, Lektrobal, comes from electro and ball .
Exeggcute resemble a set of six separate pink egg-like seeds. The "eggs" each have a face, as well as a series of cracks or even broken pieces on them.
Exeggcute are actually more like seeds despite looking more like eggs. They always must be in groups of six to maintain balance; lone Exeggcute will quickly be joined by five others almost immediately. They can communicate with each other telepathically. If one member of a pack is threatened, the others will swarm the attacker to defend it. Some of their shells may crack as they travel. However, they are surprisingly durable Pokémon that can survive with cracked or broken shells with little problem. In fact, as these Pokémon approach evolution, these cracks become more and more common. These groups of a half-dozen each are considered one Pokémon—they all can be caught in one Poké Ball, count as one Pokémon in battle, and so forth, in part due to their “shared” minds. Since they get distressed if they are unable to have six members, it is considered abuse to force Exeggcute in groups of more or less.
Exeggcute always gather in groups of six, so as to use their special type of telepathy. Their Psychic -type status allows them to use a number of psychic abilities along with their Grass -type moves. As seen in the anime, Exeggcute are quite proficient with the move Hypnosis .
Exeggcute is often a small prey item for certain Pokémon species such as Pidgeotto and Crabrawler .
Exeggcute evolves into Exeggutor if it touches a Leaf Stone . In Alola , Exeggcute evolves into Alolan Exeggutor if it touches a Leaf Stone.
It is often mistaken for eggs. When disturbed, they gather quickly and attack in swarms.
The heads attract each other and spin around. There must be 6 heads for it to maintain balance.
The shell is very durable. Even if it cracks, it can survive without spilling the contents.
Using telepathy only they can receive, they always form a cluster of six Exeggcute.
If even one is separated from the group, the energy bond between the six will make them rejoin instantly.
This Pokémon consists of six eggs that form a closely knit cluster. The six eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear on the eggs, Exeggcute is close to evolution .
Even though it appears to be eggs of some sort, it was discovered to be a life-form more like plant seeds.
It consists of six eggs that care for each other. The eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear, it is close to evolution.
Its six eggs converse using telepathy. They can quickly gather if they become separated.
This Pokémon consists of six eggs that form a closely knit cluster. The six eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear on the eggs, Exeggcute is close to evolution.
Its six eggs use telepathy to communicate among themselves. It is believed to carry plant genes and the genes of other species.
Six of them together form a full-fledged Pokémon. It’s often hunted by Crabrawler, but uses psychokinesis to drive it off.
Six of them form a single Pokémon. Should one of the six be lost, the next morning there will once more be six.
Although they are the same size as other Exeggcute, the ones produced in Alola are quite heavy. Their shells are packed full.
The heads attract each other and spin around. There must be six heads for it to maintain balance.
Though it may look like it's just a bunch of eggs, it's a proper Pokémon. Exeggcute communicates with others of its kind via telepathy, apparently.
These Pokémon get nervous when they're not in a group of six. The minute even one member of the group goes missing, Exeggcute become cowardly.
Exeggcute made their debut in The March of the Exeggutor Squad under the ownership of Melvin .
Goh caught an Exeggcute in Caring for a Mystery! .
Exeggcute appears to be based on seeds that disguise themselves as a cluster of eggs. Seeing how it evolves into Exeggutor and is preyed on by Crabrawler , it is also likely based on coconuts. Its Shiny coloration is possibly based on "golden eggs" or golden nuggets.
Exeggcute may come from egg and execute .
Its Japanese name, Tamatama, is likely taken from the word tamago , meaning egg, and tama meaning sphere.
Exeggutor is known as the Coconut Pokémon. This Pokémon looks like a walking palm tree with three yellow coconut-like heads. Each of its head shows a different expression and has its own will. It has two stubby legs, and its feet have two white claws and yellow soles. If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute . They use Telepathy to discuss their plan before coming to a joint decision.
Alolan Exeggutor is much taller and slim than its Kantonian counterpart. It has a tail with the end being a coconut with an additional face. This face looks overall different from the other three faces because it is green and has smaller eyes and a closed mouth.
Kantonian Exeggutor live in herds and has been given the reputation as the "Walking Jungle" due to them migrating sometimes. Tales have been told that one of Exeggutor's heads would fall off and form an Exeggcute, when this happens it will emit a telepathic call almost immediately to attract five other Exeggcute and become a group. The three heads of an Exeggutor always think independently and rarely bicker with one another. Exeggutor having a stout body is the result of cooler climates. Their three heads each speak their minds all at once. As a result, Exeggutor can be very noisy at times. They use telepathy to plan amongst themselves before acting. They are very friendly, both between their heads and to others, so it is rare for them to ever argue. When they do, however, Exeggutor will become confused, especially if they try to move in different directions at once. Though not aggressive, Exeggutor are capable of defending themselves when attacked with a variety of moves, including techniques such as Egg Bomb and the rare Barrage. Focusing on the same target with all three ends results in a triple-strength attack. They are rarely threatened, though, as their herds give them strength in numbers; few ever want to anger entire "forests". Exeggutor become quite sluggish when deprived of sunlight, and forests of them will quiet down on cloudy days.
Alolan Exeggutor thrives well in the Alola region. The locals there often take pride in Exeggutor, stating that it was originally meant to look like the taller appearance it bears in Alola. Exeggutor living in Alola have given up their psychic powers in exchange for draconic powers that have been long dormant for many years. The main reason for Exeggutor gaining Dragon -type powers is the strong sunlight from Alola. These heads help them spot opponents sneaking up from behind, though they can also attack as well if necessary. Though most predators stay far away from these giant Pokémon, some have learned to take advantage of their height, zipping around their feet until they loose balance and keel over. They attack foes by swinging around their heads like giant whips, though this action makes them dizzy as well.
Exeggutor can have the ability Chlorophyll . This causes Exeggutor's speed to rise when it is sunny .
Alolan Exeggutor can have the ability Frisk which reveals the opponents' held items.
Both Exeggutor's hidden ability, Harvest, has the chance of using a consumed Berry again.
Exeggutor evolves from Exeggcute if it touches a Leaf Stone . In Alola , Alolan Exeggutor evolves from Exeggcute if it touches a Leaf Stone.
Legend has it that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an Exeggcute .
Its cries are very noisy. This is because each of the three heads thinks about whatever it likes.
Its three heads think independently. However, they are friendly and never appear to squabble.
If a head drops off, it emits a telepathic call in search of others to form an Exeggcute cluster.
Living in a good environment makes it grow lots of heads. A head that drops off becomes an Exeggcute .
Exeggutor originally came from the tropics. Its heads steadily grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall off, they group together to form Exeggcute .
It is called "The Walking Tropical Rainforest." Each of the nuts has a face and will of its own.
Legend has it that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an Exeggcute.
Originally from the tropics, Exeggutor's heads grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall, they group to form an Exeggcute .
It is called "The Walking Jungle." If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute .
It is called "The Walking Jungle." If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute.
Exeggutor originally came from the tropics. Its heads steadily grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall off, they group together to form Exeggcute.
Kantonian Form : Each of its heads has its own will. They use telepathy to discuss their plans before coming to a joint decision. Alolan Form : Alola is the best environment for this Pokémon. Local people take pride in its appearance, saying this is how Exeggutor ought to look.
Kantonian Form : When the time comes, one of its three heads falls off. Before long, the fallen head grows into an Exeggcute. Alolan Form : As it grew taller and taller, it outgrew its reliance on psychic powers, while within it awakened the power of the sleeping dragon.
Kantonian Form : It engages its enemies using psychic powers. Each of its three heads fires off psychokinetic energy, tripling its power. Alolan Form : Exeggutor is the pride of the Alolan people. Its image is carved into historical buildings and murals.
Kantonian Form : Each of its three heads has its own thoughts. When they want to go in different directions, Exeggutor becomes unable to move. Alolan Form : It swings its long neck like a whip and smacks its opponents. This makes Exeggutor itself dizzy, too.
Kantonian Form: Its cries are very noisy. This is because each of the three heads thinks about whatever it likes. Alolan Form: The strong sunlight of the Alola region has awakened the power hidden within Exeggcute. This is the result.
Kantonian Form: Each of Exeggutor's three heads is thinking different thoughts. The three don't seem to be very interested in one another. Alolan Form: Blazing sunlight has brought out the true form and powers of this Pokémon.
Kantonian Form: When they work together, Exeggutor's three heads can put out powerful psychic energy. Cloudy days make this Pokémon sluggish. Alolan Form: This Pokémon's psychic powers aren't as strong as they once were. The head on this Exeggutor's tail scans surrounding areas with weak telepathy.
Goh's Kantonian and Alolan Exeggutor.
Exeggutor appears in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as an advanced support spirit. The spirit is in exeggutor's Alolan form. The game the spirit originates from is Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and the art work is form Pokémon Dream World . The spirits number is 445. The support spirits ability is Back Shield Equipped which equips an item that protects the back of your fighter.
The battle for the spirit is against Palutena. The battle is timed and is a stamina battle. The enemy is giant and favours up smash attacks. Only certain Pokémon appear from Poké Balls . The enemy's primary type is shield. You battle on Tortimer Island stage.
As an assist Pokémon, Exeggutor it will stand in a spot and act as a wall. Certain fighters can do wall clings and wall jumps from it. After a set time the Pokémon will disappear.
Exeggutor is based on a coconut tree with features of a pineapple. It may also be based on the Jinmenju, a tree-creature in Japanese myth that grew grinning heads instead of fruits.
Alolan Exeggutor is based on a palm tree with its long neck resembling that of actual coconut trees. Its Dragon typing may be inspired from the dragon palm or it might come from the Coca , an ancient dragon that has a name similar to the word coconut .
Exeggutor is a combination of 'egg' and 'executor'.
Nasshī is a portmanteau of ココナッツ kokonattsu (coconuts) and 椰子 yashi (palm tree).
Cubone, known as the Lonely Pokémon, appears to be a small, brown, dinosaur-like Pokémon that constantly wears its skull like helmet. The skull masks its true face from view, which makes it a puzzlement for many Trainers and researchers. Its cries echo within the skull and it comes out as a pained and sad melody. On the night of a full moon, it cries, for it seems to recognize its mother's face in the moon. Its tears create stains on the skull. Cubone has a plump body with a paler-colored underbelly, with strong, clawed limbs to carry a bone as a weapon around wherever it goes. Cubone has a single, nailed toe on each foot, with two spikes on its back. A small tail is also present for balance, but it can be used for attacking.
Cubone's real face has never been seen before, thanks to its bone mask. When it thinks of its dead mother, it cries. Its crying makes the skull it wears rattle loudly.
Cubone evolves into Marowak starting at level 28. In Alola , Cubone evolves into Alolan Marowak at night starting at level 28.
Because it never removes its skull helmet, no one has ever seen this Pokémon 's real face.
Wears the skull of its deceased mother. Its cries echo inside the skull and come out as a sad melody.
If it is sad or lonely, the skull it wears shakes, and emits a plaintive and mournful sound.
It always wears the skull of its dead mother, so no one has any idea what its hidden face looks like.
It lost its mother after its birth. It wears its mother's skull, never revealing its true face.
Cubone pines for the mother it will never see again. Seeing a likeness of its mother in the full moon, it cries. The stains on the skull the Pokémon wears are made by the tears it sheds.
It wears the skull of its dead mother on its head. When it becomes lonesome, it is said to cry loudly.
It pines for the mother it will never see again. Seeing a likeness of its mother in the full moon, it cries. The stains on the skull it wears are from its tears.
When it thinks of its dead mother, it cries. Its crying makes the skull it wears rattle hollowly.
When it thinks of its deceased mother, it weeps loudly. Mandibuzz that hear its cries will attack it from the air.
The skull it wears on its head is that of its dead mother. According to some, it will evolve when it comes to terms with the pain of her death.
At night, it weeps loudly for its dead mother, but those cries only attract its natural enemy—Mandibuzz.
It wears its mother’s skull on its head, so no one knows what its bare face looks like. However, it’s clear that it’s always crying.
When the memory of its departed mother brings it to tears, its cries echo mournfully within the skull it wears on its head.
This Pokémon wears the skull of its deceased mother. Sometimes Cubone's dreams make it cry, but each tear Cubone sheds makes it stronger.
In the anime, Cubone first appeared in " The School of Hard Knocks " under the ownership of a pretty yet snobby Pokémon Academy student named Giselle , who battled her Cubone against Ash's Pikachu . A Cubone was among the four Pokémon that were causing trouble for Pikachu and co. during Pikachu's Vacation. A Cubone was seen helping Meowth (Team Rocket) prepare his party in Pichu Bros. in Party Panic. This Cubone played drums in Meowth's band and got easily sad and gloomy when Meowth chewed it out, but it was also easily consolable.
Goh caught a Cubone when he befriended it as he helped it recover its lost bone in " A Snow Day for Searching! ".
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Cubone makes a cameo in Onix is On!, part of the Red, Green & Blue chapter, battling against Red's Bulbasaur as a Pewter Gym trainer's Pokémon. Super Nerd William used a Marowak to attack Yellow using its Bonemerang. Crystal owns a Cubone, who has a star-shaped crack in its skull. Cubone's main role in the team is to take out targets from afar using its bone-based attacks.
In the Pokémon Stadium 2 stage, a Cubone can be seen on the Ground Terrain standing atop the highest platform built into a rock. Dugtrio & Pokémon Fossils can also be seen on the Ground Terrain.
"A Lonely Pokémon. It wears its mother's skull as a helmet--for this reason, no one has ever seen its face. It sometimes sees its departed mother's face in the full moon, which causes it to grow sad and cry. The stains on the skull are tracks of its tears. When it cries, the skull shakes and emits a mournful sound. When it levels up, it evolves into Marowak."
Cubone appears to be based on a bipedal dinosaur of some kind combined with a stereotypical caveman.
Cubone is a portmanteau of "cute" or "cub" and "bone".
Karakara is the Japanese onomatopoeia for clattering.
Concept artwork of Marowak.
Marowak is a Pokémon that has a brown body with a sandy-colored underside. It has a single claw on its hands and feet. Its tail has a single protrusion near the end. The Pokémon's head seems to be an exoskeleton helmet and wields a long bone.
Concept artwork of Alolan Marowak.
Alolan Marowak has a black body. Its arms are longer and lankier compared to a standard Marowak. Its back has white skeletal marking. The middle part of its skull has a pattern that resembles the appearance of an extruded high-cylinder cap. Its bone has two light green flames constantly burning on both ends.
Marowak no longer grieve about abandonment; instead, their traumatic pasts become fuel for ruthless combat. They use bones to defeat foes with moves like Bone Club and Bonemerang. Marowak possess homing instincts that lead them back to their mothers’ tribes. They will join these tribes, never learning who their mothers truly were. Their loneliness has hardened them towards all deep social connections. Marowak will often fight one another in these tribes to the death for especially prized bones. The loser's remains will supply tools for future Cubone. The abandonment of young is a coming-of-age for Marowak. Lone Cubone, though traumatized, return home as cold, ruthless fighters who have no qualms whatsoever about brutally beating or killing others. Marowak hardly even communicate with each other, and even more rarely do so with speech. They tap their bones on boulders in specific rhythms to send messages. There are known to be over 50 of these unique rhythms. These Pokémon despise Mandibuzz , who try to steal their prized bones, and will throw their bones at them to knock them out of the sky. In popular folklore where Cubone are believed to be wearing the skulls of their mothers, Marowak are spurred on to defend their bones by their desire to avenge their deceased parent.
Such extreme pressure also favored individuals that worked together (in contrast to the distant relations of mainland Marowak). These Pokémon maintain the tradition of passing down the bones of loved ones; rather than dueling over them, however, Alolan Marowak seem to choose 'heirs' that will have the honor of wielding their bones when they pass. These Pokémon remain close with one another for their whole lives. They hold elaborate mourning rituals involving their flaming bones for their fallen allies; though their bones may be repurposed, Alolan Marowak will create dirt mound 'graves' along the sides of roads, fiercely attacking those who disturb them. It is said that their undying loyalty for one another endures even through death, with their spirits protecting those wielding their bones and granting them 'sixth senses.' Alolan people refer to and fear these Pokémon as 'conjurers of the dead' for this reason. Alolan Marowak strike their bones on the black patches on their heads to ignite them. They spin their bones and perform intricate dances to perform both rituals and attacks. They can release fireballs in this manner; while not individually strong, their determination to land repeated blows can make them formidable foes. It is said that a blaze caused by its ghostly fire cannot be quenched, no matter how much water is poured over it. Their flames are said to scorch both the mind and body equally.
Marowak are usually seen living in caves and grasslands, though some might be living in deserts.
From its birth, this savage Pokémon constantly holds bones. It is skilled at using them as weapons, throwing them with great skill like boomerangs to KO foes. Its attack power doubles when wielding a club .
Alolan Marowak can rub their bones on their foreheads to create fireballs and spin their bones to throw the fireballs.
Marowak evolves from Cubone starting at level 28. In Alola , Alolan Marowak evolves from Cubone at night starting at level 28.
The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets.
Small and weak, this Pokémon is adept with its Bone Club. It has grown more vicious over the ages.
It has been seen pounding boulders with the bone it carries in order to tap out messages to others.
It collects bones from an unknown place. A Marowak graveyard exists somewhere in the world, rumors say.
Somewhere in the world is a cemetery just for Marowak. It gets its bones from those graves.
Marowak is the evolved form of a Cubone that has overcome its sadness at the loss of its mother and grown tough. This Pokémon's tempered and hardened spirit is not easily broken.
It is small and was originally very weak. Its temperament turned ferocious when it began using bones.
A Marowak is the evolved form of a Cubone that has grown tough by overcoming the grief of losing its mother. Its tempered and hardened spirit is not easily broken.
From its birth, this savage Pokémon constantly holds bones. It is skilled in using them as weapons.
Kantonian Form : Originally, it was weak and timid. After evolution, its temperament becomes violent, and it begins to wield bones as weapons. Alolan Form : The bones it possesses were once its mother's. Its mother's regrets have become like a vengeful spirit protecting this Pokémon.
Kantonian Form : This Pokémon is out for vengeance on its natural enemy, Mandibuzz. It throws bones like boomerangs to try to take it down. Alolan Form : Its custom is to mourn its lost companions. Mounds of dirt by the side of the road mark the graves of the Marowak.
Kantonian Form : It throws bones at Mandibuzz to knock it down. It’s thought that Marowak is trying to avenge its parent. Alolan Form : The rich greenery of the Alola region is hard on Marowak. It controls fire to stay alive.
Kantonian Form : They thump their bones rhythmically to communicate among themselves. There are nearly 50 different rhythmic patterns. Alolan Form : When it beats opponents with its bone, the cursed flames spread to them. No amount of water will stop those flames from burning.
Kantonian Form: Small and weak, this Pokémon is adept with its bone club. It has grown more vicious over the ages. Alolan Form: It has transformed the spirit of its dear departed mother into flames, and tonight it will once again dance in mourning of others of its kind.
Kantonian Form : This Pokémon overcame its sorrow to evolve a sturdy new body. Marowak faces its opponents bravely, using a bone as a weapon. Alolan Form : This Pokémon sets the bone it holds on fire and dances through the night as a way to mourn its fallen allies.
Kantonian Form : When this Pokémon evolved, the skull of its mother fused to it. Marowak's temperament also turned vicious at the same time. Alolan Form : The cursed flames that light up the bone carried by this Pokémon are said to cause both mental and physical pain that will never fade.
Marowak seems to be based on dinosaurs. It has some elements of cavemen as well, according to its behavior of using bones as weapons and wearing skulls as helmets.
Alolan Marowak might be inspired by Hawaiian fire dancers. It may also be inspired by the Ghost Marowak that is found in Lavender Town in the Generation I games, given its Ghost typing. The fire on its club also resemble wisps, lost spirits taking the form of glowing fire.
Marowak's name was probably based on "marrow" (which is the inside of a bone) and "whack" (the action of smacking something into something else; his/her bone).
Hitmonlee is light brown in color with tape-like markings around its forearms and legs. While it looks like it has tape wrapped around its legs, the tape is actually its legs coiled like a spring which stretch to increase the distance of his kicks.
Hitmonlee and their relatives Hitmonchan and Hitmontop are found in cites, training peacefully alongside humans. They also occasionally head to mountains to train, though they generally return to urban areas at night. After tough training sessions, Hitmonlee will often massage their legs to prevent fatigue. They can often be found in dojos, teaching people how to deliver devastating kicks as well as learning new, unorthodox techniques from them.
Hitmonlee can effortlessly extend and stretch their legs as if they are springs, going twice beyond their initial length to knock out their foes in good balance. It should be noted that their legs can keep stretching further while they are constantly clobbering their opponents.
Hitmonlee evolves from Tyrogue starting at level 20 if its Attack is higher than its Defense . Before Tyrogue and Hitmontop were added, Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan were not part of a evolutionary branch.
When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra long, loping strides.
When kicking, the sole of its foot turns as hard as a diamond on impact and destroys its enemy.
This amazing Pokémon has an awesome sense of balance. It can kick in succession from any position.
If it starts kicking repeatedly, both legs will stretch to strike a fleeing foe.
It is also called the Kick Master. It uses its elastic legs to execute every known kick.
Hitmonlee's legs freely contract and stretch. Using these springlike legs, it bowls over foes with devastating kicks. After battle, it rubs down its legs and loosens the muscles to overcome fatigue.
The legs freely contract and stretch. The stretchy legs allow it to hit a distant foe with a rising kick.
When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra-long, loping strides.
Its legs freely stretch and contract. Using these springlike limbs, it bowls over foes with devastating kicks. After battle, it rubs down its tired legs.
Its legs can stretch double. First-time foes are startled by its extensible reach.
If it starts kicking repeatedly, both legs will stretch even longer to strike a fleeing foe.
Barry's Hitmonlee.
Hitmonlee is based on Japanese kick-boxer Tadashi Sawamura who rose to prominence in the 1960s and earned the title of "The Demon of Kickboxing".
Hitmonlee's English name is derived from the words "Hit", "Monster" and the last name of film star Bruce Lee , the same as how Hitmonchan is derived the same first two words and the last name of Jackie Chan .
Its Japanese name, Sawamular, is based on the kickboxer Tadashi Sawamura, which is also its origin inspiration.
Concept artwork of Hitmonchan.
Hitmonchan's appearance is very similar to a human, when compared to other Pokémon . Its skin is a light brown color. Its appears to be wearing a purple, skirt-like attire and bright red boxing gloves. Its feet are also a purple color, giving it the appearance that he is wearing shoes. Its enlarged shoulders appear as large shoulder pads. The very top of its head is separated into five sections, and its face has visible eyes and a mouth but no nose.
Hitmonchan is an extremely resilient Pokémon who won't give up in the face of challenges. Any Hitmonchan may appear to be standing idly when in fact launching volleys of punches faster than bullet trains into thin air as practice. However, these punches do tire them out—after three minutes of intense work, they need to take light rests. Regardless of the setbacks they face, Hitmonchan are determined, having the spirit of champion boxers. Even during these breaks, Hitmonchan will often move around or jog quickly in place.
They are also skilled in sparring with light punches, allowing them to act as a sparring partners to fellow Hitmonchan or to aspiring human boxers (the latter of which who almost always lose, but learn from fights nonetheless). Like Hitmonlee, Hitmonchan can be found training in dojos, but can also sometimes be seen punching away at boulders in mountains.
Hitmonchan utilize their punching moves to the fullest, far more than any other Pokémon . Their punches can be so quick that it is possible that they are not able to be seen. Hitmonchan can learn all three elemental punches which are strong against elemental Pokémon that are weak against them. They can also punch so much that their punches slice through the air , but at the expense of their stamina. Even a slight graze will cause a burn , and can demolish concrete (which a Conkeldurr wields).
Hitmonchan evolves from Tyrogue starting at level 20 if its Attack is lower than his Defense . Before Tyrogue and Hitmontop were added, Hitmonchan and Hitmonlee were not part of a evolutionary branch.
While apparently doing nothing, it fires punches in lightning fast volleys that are impossible to see.
Punches in corkscrew fashion. It can punch its way through a concrete wall in the same way as a drill.
Its punches slice through the air. However, it seems to need a short break after fighting for three minutes.
Its punches slice the air. They are launched at such high speed, even a slight graze could cause a burn.
To increase the strength of all its punch moves, it spins its arms just before making contact.
A Hitmonchan is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who had been working towards a world championship. This Pokémon has an indomitable spirit and will never give up in the face of adversity.
The spirit of a pro boxer has infused this Pokémon. It throws punches that are faster than a bullet train.
A Hitmonchan is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who aimed to become the world champion. Having an indomitable spirit means that it will never give up.
The arm-twisting punches it throws pulverize even concrete. It rests after three minutes of fighting.
The arm-twisting it throws pulverize even concrete. It rests after three minutes of fighting.
Hitmonchan is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who had been working toward a world championship. This Pokémon has an indomitable spirit and will never give up in the face of adversity.
Punches in corkscrew fashion. It can punch its way through a concrete wall like a drill.
Its punches slice the air. However, it seems to need a short break after fighting for three minutes.
Goh's Hitmonchan.
Hitmonchan first appeared in the anime episode The Punchy Pokémon , where he was entered into a fighting tournament under the ownership of a trainer named Anthony .
Hitmonchan is based on a boxer . It may be a caricature of Hiroyuki Ebihara himself.
Hitmonchan's English name is derived from the words "Hit", "Monster" and the last name of film star Jackie Chan , the same as how Hitmonlee is derived the same first two words and the last name of Bruce Lee .
Its Japanese name, Ebiwalar, is derived from the world champion boxer Hiroyuki Ebihara .
Lickitung is a pink, reptilian Pokémon with some white designs on its stomach, legs, and hands. It has a bulky body with a long tail and most importantly, a long tongue.
Their tongues are actually the most receptive part of their bodies, even more sensitive than their hands. When they come across unfamiliar objects, they will lick them, as they associate things by texture and taste. Lickitung do not enjoy sourness, however, and will avoid things that are tart. Though Lickitung often chase down people and Pokémon, they are not aggressive. In addition to using their tongues to feel new things, they also use them to detect food particles on others and lick them off to "clean" them, though this always leaves a rather unpleasant odor behind.
Lickitung has a tongue which is twice its body length. It uses it for a variety of tasks such as catching its prey, cleaning itself, or attacking enemies, with licks usually causing paralysis when they hit an opponent. Lickitung's saliva on its tongue can easily grip anything, and can also cause a long-lasting itch to its foes.
It preys on Bug-type Pokémon with its long and extensive tongue.
Lickitung evolves into Lickilicky if leveled up while knowing the move Rollout .
( Trade Slowbro )
Trade Slowbro ( FR ) or Golduck ( LG )
Its tongue can be extended like a chameleon's. It leaves a tingling sensation when it licks enemies.
Its tongue spans almost 7 feet and moves more freely than its forelegs. Its licks can cause paralysis.
Its tongue has well-developed nerves that run to the very tip, so it can be deftly manipulated.
Its long tongue, slathered with a thick gooey saliva, sticks to anything, so it is very useful.
It has a tongue that is over 6'6" long. It uses this long tongue to lick its body clean.
Whenever Lickitung comes across something new, it will unfailingly give it a lick. It does so because it memorizes things by texture and by taste. It is somewhat put off by sour things.
Its tongue is twice the length of its body. It can be moved like an arm for grabbing food and attacking.
Whenever it sees something unfamiliar, it always licks the object because it memorizes things by texture and taste. It is somewhat put off by sour things.
Instead of hands, it uses its tongue, which is twice its height. Its sticky saliva grips anything.
When it extends its over-six-foot-long tongue, its tail quivers. There is a possibility they are connected.
When it extends its over-six-foot-long tongue, its tail quivers. There is a possibility that they are connected.
Its long tongue, slathered with a gooey saliva, sticks to anything, so it is very useful.
It checks out whatever’s around it by licking everything. If you don’t clean off a spot where it’s licked you, you’ll break out in a rash!
It licks filth clean with its tongue. Whatever it licks always stinks afterward, so whether it’s really clean is...questionable.
Its tongue spans almost seven feet and moves more freely than its forelegs. Its licks can cause paralysis.
If this Pokémon's sticky saliva gets on you and you don't clean it off, an intense itch will set in. The itch won't go away, either.
Bug Pokémon are Lickitung's main food source. This Pokémon paralyzes its prey with a lick from its long tongue, then swallows the prey whole.
Instead of its hands, it uses its tongue, which can stretch to twice this Pokémon's height. Lickitung's sticky saliva grips anything.
Wields its long tongue deftly, as though it were an arm. The Pokémon's viscous saliva, once it has been collected and boiled down, yields a strong and highly useful adhesive.
Jessie had a Lickitung that she caught in " Princess vs. Princess ". It licked Ash's Pikachu , Ash's Bulbasaur , and Brock's Vulpix clean. Later in " Tricks of the Trade ", Jessie accidentally traded her Lickitung for a Wobbuffet .
Lickitung is inspired by the Akaname , a Japanese yōkai with a massive tongue and one claw on each foot. The name Akaname means "filth licker" and they're known for licking filthy bathrooms to keep them clean. It may also have drawn inspiration from lizards with extensive tongues.
The name Lickitung is a combination Licki which symbolizes Licking and Tung which is the intentional misspelling of the word Tongue .
The name Beroringa is derived from べろ bero (tongue), ベロベロ berobero (onomatopoeia for licking), and possibly ring (referring to the patterns on its body) or a corruption of lingua (which generally refers to a tongue or an organ resembling a tongue).
Concept artwork of Koffing.
Koffing is a Poison Gas Pokémon. Its body is purple and spherical with a skull and crossbones on the lower parts of its body. It has openings that allow gases to escape. A Koffing will spew a harmless gas if its happy, and a poisonous gas if it's angry. Koffing mainly eats rotten kitchen garbage.
Lighter-than-air gases in its body keep it aloft. The gases not only smell, but they are also explosive. Koffing's signature attack is Poison Gas .
Koffing evolves into Weezing starting at level 35.
Koffing first appeared in the anime in Pokemon Emergency as James ' Pokémon. It was extremely loyal to him, so much that it evolved into Weezing in Dig Those Diglett .
A group of wild Koffing appeared in A Poached Ego , where they were captured by a poacher along with a group of Ekans . They were rescued by Team Rocket , who were forced to release Jessie's Arbok and James' Weezing in the wild with them.
In Super Smash Bros. , Koffing is a Poké Ball Pokémon that, if summoned, uses Poison Gas , continuously damaging any opponents within range. An opponent can also be damaged from touching a Koffing.
Koffing does not return in Super Smash Bros. Melee , in favor of Weezing being a Poké Ball Pokémon instead, but it is mentioned in the description of the Weezing trophy.
A Koffing in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS
Koffings are enemies in the Smash Run mode of Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS . Here, after Koffing inflates itself for a while, it releases Poison Gas , which damages the player's fighter while lowering stats. If the Koffing is defeated, the stats are automatically restored without having to be collected.
There is a collectible trophy of Koffing, like with the other enemies in Smash Run mode. It is obtained as a random drop in one of the single-player modes.
In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , Koffing is an item in Smash Tour mode. When used, Koffing uses Smokescreen to hide the board with a thick cloud of purple smoke for one turn.
A different trophy of Koffing appears, although Koffing is depicted with the same pose as in its trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS . The Koffing trophy now has a specific unlock criteria of having to complete the true Solo All-Star mode within six minutes as Jigglypuff .
Koffing resembles a cloud, naval mine , or smoke bomb . It is mostly a physical representation of air pollution .
Koffing is a misspelling of the word "coughing".
Dogāsu is a portmanteau of 毒 ( doku , poison) and "gas".
Weezing is a much more bulky and large version of its pre-evolved form Koffing. After evolving from Koffing, Weezing gains a secondary (although smaller) head. The larger primary head has two fang-like teeth protruding from its lower mouth and two flat teeth protruding from its upper mouth, as well as a skull and crossbones marking. The smaller head has a simple frown and a circular marking. Weezing also has multiple pores surrounding its body that releases poisonous gases.
A Galarian Weezing is much different than a Kantonian Weezing. It has a gray body with green smog clouds radiating from its mouth, which gives it the appearance of facial hair; the larger head has a mustache while the smaller head has a beard and eyebrows. It also has a tall smoke stack on both heads, which resembles a top hat, with light-gray smoke clouds. The skull and crossbones on the larger head now has a golden tint, which is also applied to the circular marking on the smaller head. Unlike its Kantonian counterpart, both heads of a Galarian Weezing have their mouths open.
Weezing is formed from a fusion of toxic gases and two Koffings for many years. Because of the constant mixtures of poison gases within its body, Weezing always emit foul-smelling odors. Just like its pre-evolved form, Weezing is able to hover in the air. Despite smelling horrible, the gases that Weezing creates have been used for perfumes.
Weezing is fond of garbage and other sources of pollution; it is mainly nocturnal, always looking for trash from a human's house.
The gases produced from a Kantonian Weezing is much more potent than the gases from a Galarian Weezing.
Galarian Weezing relies on poisonous gases to sustain itself. Unlike its Kantonian counterpart, Galarian Weezing emits clean purified air rather than pollution. This process is done through the absorption of lingering air pollutants.
The toxins Galarian Weezing stores inside its body are released into the air as concentrated poisonous gas, which is so lethal that a mere whiff will immobilize anyone caught in its vicinity. This toxic gas is apparently Galarian Weezing's best weapon to use in battle.
Long ago, when the Galar region was filled with toxic pollution emitted from groups of factories, Galarian Weezing mysteriously changed form.
Weezing evolves from Koffing starting at level 35.
Where two kinds of poison gases meet, two Koffings can fuse into a Weezing over many years.
It lives and grows by absorbing dust, germs, and poison gases that are contained in toxic waste and garbage.
If one of the two Koffings inflates, the other one deflates. It constantly mixes its poisonous gases.
Top-grade perfume is made using its internal poison gases by diluting them to the highest level.
When it inhales poisonous gases from garbage, its body expands, and its insides smell much worse.
Weezing loves the gases given off by rotted kitchen garbage. This Pokémon will find a dirty, unkept house and make it its home. At night, when the people in the house are asleep, it will go through the trash.
Weezing alternately shrinks and inflates its twin bodies to mix together toxic gases inside. The more the gases are mixed, the more powerful the toxins become. The Pokémon also becomes more putrid.
Very rarely, a sudden mutation can result in two small Koffing twins becoming conjoined as a Weezing.
By diluting its toxic gases with a special process, the highest grade of perfume can be extracted. To Weezing, gases emanating from garbage are the ultimate feast.
It grows by feeding on gases released by garbage. Though very rare, triplets have been found.
If one of the twin Koffing inflates, the other one deflates. It constantly mixes its poisonous gases.
Weezing loves the gases given off by rotted kitchen garbage. This Pokémon will find a dirty, unkempt house and make it its home. At night, when the people in the house are asleep, it will go through the trash.
This Pokémon lives and grows by absorbing poison gas, dust, and germs that exist inside garbage.
Kantonian Form : It mixes gases between its two bodies. It's said that these Pokémon were seen all over the Galar region back in the day. Galarian Form : This Pokémon consumes particles that contaminate the air. Instead of leaving droppings, it expels clean air.
Kantonian Form : It can't suck in air quite as well as a Galarian Weezing, but the toxins it creates are more potent than those of its counterpart. Galarian Form : Long ago, during a time when droves of factories fouled the air with pollution, Weezing changed into this form for some reason.
A Weezing first appeared under the ownership of James as a Koffing. It was mostly used to flee from the field by using Weezing's Smokescreen . James left it in A Poached Ego to protect Koffing and Ekans .
Weezing is based on air pollution and smog . Due to its appearance and behavior, it resembles a cloud or a naval mine due to its tendency to explode. The tumor-like growth of its second head may be a reference to how pollution can cause cancer and mutations . It also resembles the ball-and-stick model of a water molecule (albeit with inaccurate proportions, as the ball on the bottom, where the large oxygen atom would be, is the smallest). This is likely a tongue-in cheek jab towards people who only use the term "chemicals" to refer to harmful substances despite the fact that all matter (even relatively harmless substances like water) are chemicals.
Galarian Weezing's appearance (dark-gray body, smog gas resembling facial hair, and top hat -like smoke stacks) is reminiscent of photographs of wealthy men of Victorian era England . It shares some aspects of a stone chimney (a common architectural feature in Victorian era England), as well as air purifiers. It might also be inspired by the factories in England during the Industrial Revolution . Galarian Weezing's Fairy type may allude to how most fae creatures are able to purify lethal toxins, which also explains why Galarian Weezing is able to convert toxic gases into clean gases.
Weezing is a misspelling of the word wheezing .
Matadogasu comes from 又 (mata, "again" in Japanese) and Dogāsu, Koffing's Japanese name.
Rhyhorn is a gray rhinoceros-like Pokémon that has rock hard skin and armor covering its body. It has spikes on top of it to protect itself from its foes. It walks on four legs and has a horn that can be used as a drill. And it has two toes on each foot and two sharp teeth sticking out of its mouth.
Male Rhyhorn have a longer horn while female have a shorter horn. This is the same case for its evolutions.
Rhyhorn can have the ability Rock Head or the ability Lightningrod . Rock Head prevents Rhyhorn from sustaining recoil damage. Lightning Rod directs all Electric -type attacks to Rhyhorn. Its body is clad in a thick hide, and its tackles topple buildings. Unfortunately, it is not very clever, and can only run in straight lines. It is very difficult to catch in Safari Zone due to missing with Safari Balls .
While powerful, Rhyhorn are not the smartest Pokémon in the world. They are said to only be able to remember one thing at a time. While that is not true, they are still rather dense Pokémon. They will often charge at something but forget why they began charging in the first place mid-run; they will not stop running until they tire out and collapse from exhaustion, however. Sometimes, destroying things help Rhyhorn remember why they began running.
Rhyhorn can be very friendly and playful but if approached from behind they may get startled and run as they have a blind spot directly behind them, like horses do. They will gladly allow their trainers to ride on their backs; in some regions, Rhyhorn racing is a popular sport.
Rhyhorn evolves into Rhydon starting at level 42 and then evolves into Rhyperior if traded while holding a Protector .
Its massive bones are 1000 times harder than human bones. It can easily knock a trailer flying.
A Pokémon with a one-track mind. Once it charges, it won't stop running until it falls asleep.
It is inept at turning because of its four short legs. It can only charge and run in one direction.
It doesn't care if there is anything in its way. It just charges and destroys all obstacles.
It can remember only one thing at a time. Once it starts rushing, it forgets why it started.
Rhyhorn runs in a straight line, smashing everything in its path. It is not bothered even if it rushes headlong into a block of steel. This Pokémon may feel some pain from the collision the next day, however.
Rhyhorn's brain is very small. It is so dense, while on a run it forgets why it started running in the first place. It apparently remembers sometimes if it demolishes something.
Strong, but not too bright, this Pokémon can shatter even a skyscraper with its charging tackles.
Once it starts running, it doesn't stop. Its tiny brain makes it so stupid that it can't remember why it started running in the first place.
Its body is clad in a thick hide, and its tackles topple buildings. Unfortunately, it is not smart.
Its powerful tackles can destroy anything. However, it is too slow witted to help people work.
Strong, but not too bright, this Pokémon can shatter even a skyscraper with its charging Tackles.
Rhyhorn claims an area with over a six mile radius as its territory. It apparently forgets where this territory is when running, however.
Once it starts running, it won't stop-even if it crashes through boulders. This disposition is what's caused its habitat to expand.
Rhyhorn appears to be based on a rhinoceros .
Rhyhorn may come from rhinoceros , horn , and rhyolite , a type of volcanic rock.
It is a gray rock-hard Pokémon that developed a long tail and learned to stand bipedally, meaning on two legs. It is a rhinoceros-like creature that can crush rocks and has a long drill that can drill through rocks.
Male Rhydon have a longer horn while female have a shorter horn. This is the same case for its pre-evolution and evolution.
This Pokémon's brain developed after it stood up on its hind legs. Its drill horn bores tunnels through solid rock, even diamonds. Records show it as being able to topple buildings with a sweeping blow of its tail. Its hide is so thick and protective that Rhydon can thrive in very hot places, as well as being almost impossible to hurt in battle, at the cost being unable to sense its surroundings.
Despite being a rock-type as seen with Pietra's Rhydon, they can actually swim if they put their mind to it or if they are hungry enough let alone learn water types moves.
Rhydon evolves from Rhyhorn starting at level 42 and evolves into Rhyperior if traded while holding a Protector .
Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees.
Walks on its hind legs. Shows signs of intelligence. Its armor-like hide even repels molten lava.
Its rugged hide protects it from even the heat of lava. However, the hide also makes it insensitive.
Its brain developed when it began walking on hind legs. Its thick hide protects it even in magma.
By lightly spinning its drill-like horn, it can easily shatter even a diamond in the rough.
Rhydon's horn can crush even uncut diamonds. One sweeping blow of its tail can topple a building. This Pokémon's hide is extremely tough. Even direct cannon hits don't leave a scratch.
Rhydon has a horn that serves as a drill. It is used for destroying rocks and boulders. This Pokémon occasionally rams into streams of magma, but the armor-like hide prevents it from feeling the heat.
It begins walking on its hind legs after evolution. It can punch holes through boulders with its horn.
Its horn, which rotates like a drill, destroys tall buildings with one strike. It stands on its hind legs, and its brain is well developed.
Its brain developed after it stood up on its hind legs. Its drill horn bores tunnels through solid rock.
Standing on its hind legs freed its forelegs and made it smarter. It is very forgetful, however.
Its rugged hide protects it from even the heat of lava. However its hide also makes it insensitive.
Standing on its hind legs freed its forearms and made it smarter. It is very forgetful though.
Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
Its brain developed when it began walking on its hind legs. Its armor-like hide even repels molten lava.
The horn of a Rhydon is powerful enough to crush raw diamonds. These Pokémon polish their horns by bashing them together.
It evolved to walk using only its hind legs, which has allowed it to expand its habitat even onto steep mountains.
Rhydon appears to be based off a rhinoceros but it shares some traits with dinosaurs, most similarly to the Triceratops family.
Rhydon is derived from "rhinoceros" and "don", which is Greek for "tooth" and is also a common suffix for dinosaur names.
Chansey is a round, pink Pokémon. It has stubby arms and legs with no visible digits. It has small black eyes and a mouth with no visible nose. It has three long frills on each side of its head. It also has a short tail and a pouch with a white egg. Its feet, pouch, and the ends of its frills are a darker shade of pink.
Chansey is an extremely brave and kind Pokémon and it always smiles, regardless of its mood. It is known to bring anyone happiness.
Chansey can either have the ability Natural Cure or the ability Serene Grace . Natural Cure causes all of Chansey's status effects to be cured when Chansey is switched out. Serene Grace doubles the chances that secondary effects happen. Chansey are supposed to bring happiness and are seen carrying a stone shaped egg and shares her with injured Pokémon. The Chansey line happens to have more items associated with it than any other Pokémon: the Lucky Punch , the Lucky Incense , the Lucky Egg , and the aforementioned Oval Stone.
Chansey evolves from Happiny if leveled up while holding an Oval Stone during the day and evolves into Blissey if leveled up with high friendship .
A rare and elusive Pokémon that is said to bring happiness to those who manage to get it.
A gentle and kind-hearted Pokémon that shares its nutritious eggs if it sees an injured Pokémon.
It walks carefully to prevent its egg from breaking. However, it is extremely fast at running away.
Few in numbers and difficult to capture, it is said to bring happiness to the trainer who catches it.
People try to catch it for its extremely nutritious eggs, but it rarely can be found.
Chansey lays nutritionally excellent eggs on an everyday basis. The eggs are so delicious, they are easily and eagerly devoured by even those people who have lost their appetite.
It lays several eggs a day. The eggs are apparently rich in nutrients and extremely delicious.
Chansey lay nutritionally excellent eggs every day. The eggs are so delicious, they are eagerly devoured by even those people who have lost their appetite.
It is said to deliver happiness. Being compassionate, it shares its eggs with injured people.
It lays several eggs a day and won't share them with those who have evil in their hearts.
A kindly Pokémon that lays highly nutritious eggs and shares them with injured Pokémon or people.
Being few in number and difficult to capture, it is said to bring happiness to the Trainer who catches it.
The eggs laid by Chansey are rich in nutrients and a favorite food of many Pokémon.
Not only are these Pokémon fast runners, they're also few in number, so anyone who finds one must be lucky indeed.
It seems that other Pokémon’s efforts to take its delicious, nutritious egg away from it caused Chansey to get faster at fleeing.
Because the eggs on their bellies have been overharvested by people in the past, the Chansey population remains very small.
A gentle and kindhearted Pokémon that shares its nutritious eggs if it sees an injured Pokémon.
The egg Chansey carries is not only delicious but also packed with nutrition. It's used as a high-class cooking ingredient.
This species was once very slow. To protect their eggs from other creatures, these Pokémon became able to flee quickly.
This purehearted Pokémon shares its eggs with the injured. These eggs are so nutritious that they've been nicknamed "doctors' doubles."
This kindly Pokémon lays highly nutritious eggs and shares them with injured Pokémon or people.
Chansey's name is a corruption of "chance" or "chancy", possibly referring to its rarity in-game.
Chansey's body slightly resembles an egg. Its physical appearance also shows some similarities to the axolotl (they have pink ruffles on the sides of their heads, they lay eggs and are pink, their ability to regenerate organs possibly being the basis for Chansey's healing talents). Its shiny may be based on a chicken egg due to its tan color. The shiny's green coloring could also be a reference to a spoiled egg or Dr. Seuss 's Green Eggs and Ham .
Tangela is a Vine Pokémon. Its body is covered with blue vines covered with tiny hairs that grow to give the impression that Tangela is circular in shape. Two big eyes are all people see inside the vines and there are no visible arms. It also has two red feet that poke out of the vines.
A Tangela's vines never stop moving. Though they are genetically closely related to seaweed, they do not require any more water than the average plant. Their vines never stop growing and can regenerate. This allows Tangela to snap off vines painlessly to distract predators and regrow them later as soon as the next day.
Their vines have a distinctive scent and are used as an herb in some parts of Galar. The swaying of their vines can be mysteriously unnerving to onlookers. Their vines are covered in fine hairs that tickle those caught within and also allow Tangela to use their vines as arms; the hairs can “feel” objects when brushed against them and detect ​changes in air pressure and humidity.
Their vines latch onto anything that moves. If Tangela grab foes that turn out to be too strong, their vines will break off and allow them to escape.
Since Tangela are shrouded in blue vines, no one has seen their face hidden behind this growth of vines. However, these vines impart a refreshing sensation when chewed, so they are useful as spices.
Tangela evolves into Tangrowth if leveled up while knowing the move Ancient Power .
Tangela may be based on a cluster of vines and possibly a tumbleweed. It may also be based on Medusa, a gorgon who had tangling snakes as hair and could turn individuals to stone with a glare. This is possibly referenced by how it evolves through knowing Ancient Power , a Rock -type move.
Tangela may come from tangle and Medusa .
Kangaskhan is known as a Parent Pokémon. She resembles a large dinosaur with elements of a kangaroo. Her baby is often seen in her pouch. When Mega Evolution is activated, the adult remains unchanged physically, while the juvenile emerges from the pouch and increases in size and power.
Kangaskhan is a caring and devoted Pokémon, with strong maternal instincts. A mother will carry her young in the marsupial-like pouch on her stomach, and rarely lets her out of her sight. When she feels safe, the parent will let the baby out to play. Young Kangaskhan are obedient and loyal to their parents and do their best to help fight off enemies during battle.
This Pokémon is known for the fact that she has a baby in her pouch in front of her. If she feels that either of them (that being the baby and her) is being harmed, she will attack.
Kangaskhan does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan using its Kangaskhanite .
The infant rarely ventures out of its mother's protective pouch until it is 3 years old.
Raises its young in its belly pouch. Won't run from any fight to keep its young protected.
If it is safe, the young gets out of the belly pouch to play. The adult keeps a close eye on the youngster.
To protect its young, it will never give up during battle, no matter how badly wounded it is.
To avoid crushing the baby it carries in its pouch, it always sleeps standing up.
If you come across a young Kangaskhan playing by itself, you must never disturb it or attempt to catch it. The baby Pokémon's parent is sure to be in the area, and it will become violently enraged at you.
The female raises its offspring in a pouch on its belly. It is skilled at attacking using Comet Punch.
If you come across a young Kangaskhan playing by itself, never try to catch it. The baby's parent is sure to be in the area, and it will become violently enraged.
It raises its offspring in its belly pouch. It lets the baby play only when it feels safe.
It raises its offspring in its belly pouch. It lets the baby out to play only when it feels safe.
Kangaskhan's maternal love is so deep that it will brave death to protect its offspring. Mega Evolution : Mega Kangaskhan’s strength derives from the mother’s happiness about her child’s growth. Watching it grow up keeps her spirits high.
The child in its pouch leaves its home after roughly three years. That is the only time the mother is heard to cry wildly. Mega Evolution : Thanks to Mega Evolution, its child grows. But as the child is good only at fighting and nothing else, its mother feels uneasy about its future.
Kangaskhan protects its child by keeping it in its pouch. It has zero forgiveness for those who harm its child and will beat them down. Mega Evolution : The explosive energy the child is bathed in causes temporary growth. The mother is beside herself with worry about it.
You shouldn’t get close to the child when it’s playing outside its mother’s pouch. Its mother is always nearby watching over it. Mega Evolution : When the mother sees the back of her Mega-Evolved child, it makes her think of the day when her child will inevitably leave her.
Raises its young in its belly pouch. Won't run from any fight to keep its young protected. Mega Evolution: Its child has grown rapidly, thanks to the energy of Mega Evolution. Mother and child show their harmonious teamwork in battle.
Although it's carrying its baby in a pouch on its belly, Kangaskhan is swift on its feet. It intimidates its opponents with quick jabs.
There are records of a lost human child being raised by a childless Kangaskhan.
It raises its offspring in its belly pouch. It lets its baby out to play only when it feels safe to do so.
It raises its offspring in its belly pouch. It lets its baby out to play only when it feels safe to do so. Mega Evolution : Its child has grown rapidly, thanks to the energy of Mega Evolution. Mother and child show off their harmonious teamwork in battle.
Kangaskhan appears to be based on a kangaroo with elements of Mongolian laminar armor and dinosaurs.
Kangaskhan is a portmanteau of "kangaroo" and "Genghis Khan", the notoriously bellicose ruler of the Mongol Empire.
Garūra is a portmanteau of "kangaroo" and "ruler".
Horsea is a Water-type Pokémon that resembles a seahorse. It is a small, light blue seahorse with tiny scales. Its belly and fin are cream colored. Its tail is always curled up tightly, and it has a single fin on its back that is used for locomotion in the water.
If they sense trouble, they spit ink towards the instigator. If the enemy is too strong, it quickly swims to safety. When they are a safe location, they can be seen playfully tangling their tails together. Horsea do like swimming around, making them adept in using their fin. If the ocean current turns fast, however, Horsea will anchor itself by wrapping its tail around rocks or coral to prevent being washed away. It also has the ability to spit ink to escape any potential danger, because of this it can learn moves such as Smokescreen . They have been known to make their nests in the shades of corals.
Horsea can have the ability Swift Swim or the ability Sniper . Swift Swim increases Horsea's Speed when it is raining. Sniper powers up critical hits. They are known to be very accurate in shooting water.
Horsea evolves into Seadra starting at level 32 and then evolves into Kingdra if traded while holding a Dragon Scale .
Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water.
If it senses any danger, it will vigorously spray water or a special type of ink from its mouth.
If attacked by a larger enemy, it quickly swims to safety by adeptly controlling its dorsal fin.
Its big, developed fins move rapidly, allowing it to swim backward while still facing forward.
When they're in a safe location, they can be seen playfully tangling their tails together.
Horsea eats small insects and moss off of rocks. If the ocean current turns fast, this Pokémon anchors itself by wrapping its tail around rocks or coral to prevent being washed away.
If Horsea senses danger, it will reflexively spray a dense black ink from its mouth and try to escape. This Pokémon swims by cleverly flapping the fins on its back.
By cleverly flicking the fins on its back side to side, it moves in any direction while facing forward. It spits ink to escape if it senses danger.
It makes its nest in the shade of corals. If it senses danger, it spits murky ink and flees.
If Horsea senses danger, it will reflexively spray a dense black ink from its mouth and try to escape. This Pokémon swims by cleverly flapping the fin on its back.
Misty's Horsea.
In the anime, Misty noticed an injured Horsea in the coast, and caught it. Horsea has trouble functioning on land, so she didn't use it much in her adventures. However, when it was used, it tended to be very resourceful - using ink to draw pictures or leave trails. Near the end of the Kanto adventures, Horsea was feeling ill because Misty wasn't letting it out enough to get any exercise. She later decides to give it to her sisters at the Cerulean Gym for their water shows.
In the Pokémon Adventures, Green had a Horsea on her team, using it in her crafty tricks such as cloaking areas with Smokescreen or leaving ink trails. It was later transferred to Silver, and eventually evolved into Kingdra.
Horsea is most likely based on a seahorse, however, it also may be based on squids and archer fish as it is able to spit ink and shoot water at passing bugs. The latter aspect may also make it based on a water gun. It may also take inspiration from how some species of seahorses are sometimes referred to as "sea dragons" ass well as there being a Japanese myth stating that seahorse will turn into a dragon after living for a century.
Horsea may come from horse (referring to a seahorse) and sea . It may also come from horsie , a childish way of saying "horse".
It has a long snout and a number of spikes on its head, to the sides and on the top, and a pair of pectoral fins on the sides of its head. Its torso is covered with rough, cream-colored scales. Seadra's dorsal fins have sharp, pointed, cream-colored tips from which it exudes venom. Seadra also has a large tail which is generally coiled up. Seadra's quills can render its victim unconscious.
Seadra have a violent temper. They hook their tail onto rocks or coral branches to rest, preventing them from being swept away. Seadra can also use their fins and tails to swim backwards. When hunting, Seadra create whirlpools to trap and disorient prey. Whirlpools from larger Seadra can be powerful enough to capsize fishing boats. They swallow ​food whole using their long snouts, and can even suck in prey larger than these openings with great force.
After the female Seadra gives birth, the male Seadra will take care of the young and its nest. It will attack those who venture too near to its children.
Seadra's spines provide protection for their bodies, and their fins and bones are prized as traditional medicine ingredients. They are also extremely accurate in shooting water from their mouths.
Seadra evolves from Horsea starting at level 32 and evolves into Kingdra if traded while holding a Dragon Scale .
Capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its wing-like pectoral fins and stout tail.
Touching the back fin causes numbness. It hooks its tail to coral to stay in place while sleeping.
An examination of its cell revealed the presence of a gene not found in Horsea. It became a hot topic.
Its fin tips leak poison. Its fins and bones are highly valued as ingredients in herbal medicine.
The male raises the young. If it is approached, it uses its toxic spikes to fend off the intruder.
Seadra sleeps after wriggling itself between the branches of coral. Those trying to harvest coral are occasionally stung by this Pokémon's poison barbs if they fail to notice it.
Seadra generates whirlpools by spinning its body. The whirlpools are strong enough to swallow even fishing boats. This Pokémon weakens prey with these currents, then swallows it whole.
Its body bristles with sharp spikes. Carelessly trying to touch it could cause fainting from the spikes.
It is capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its winglike pectoral fins and stout tail.
The poisonous barbs all over its body are highly valued as ingredients for making traditional herbal medicine. It shows no mercy to anything approaching its nest.
Its spines provide protection. Its fins and bones are prized as traditional medicine ingredients.
Ash Ketchum battled Mandi 's Seadra in his first battle in the Indigo League . Cissy used a Seadra while Ash was participating in her target test in Fit to be Tide . A Seadra was one of the Pokémon that were captured and cloned by Mewtwo in Mewtwo Strikes Back . The Seadra clone is seen again in Mewtwo Returns. Juan , the leader of the Sootopolis City Gym , also owns a Seadra.
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Silver had a Seadra as a part of his team, although it was not shown. During the events of Volume 9, Silver secretly sends Seadra to Gold via trade for his Poliwhirl, triggering Seadra's evolution into Kingdra.
Seadra is most likely based on a seahorse , however, it also may be based on squids and archerfish as it is able to spit ink and shoot water at passing bugs. The latter aspect may also make it based on a water gun . It may also take inspiration from how some species of seahorses are sometimes referred to as "sea dragons" as well as there being a Japanese myth stating that seahorse will turn into a dragon after living for a century. Its spines filled with poison may be based on a lionfish .
Seadra may come from seahorse and hydra .
Goldeen is a fish-like Pokémon, with long, billowing fins. It is colored orange and white. Goldeen also has a horn on its forehead which it uses to attack foes.
The male's horn is longer than the female's.
Goldeen can have the ability Swift Swim or the ability Water Veil . Swift Swim increases Goldeen's Speed when it is raining. Water Veil prevents Goldeen from getting Burned . Despite its looks, its horn is extremely powerful.
Goldeen evolves into Seaking starting at level 33.
Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of the Water Queen.
When it is time for them to lay eggs, they can be seen swimming up rivers and falls in large groups.
Its dorsal, pectoral and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the water dancer.
A strong swimmer, it is capable of swimming nonstop up fast streams at a steady speed of five knots.
During spawning season, they swim gracefully in the water, searching for their perfect mate.
Goldeen is a very beautiful Pokémon with fins that billow elegantly in water. However, don't let your guard down around this Pokémon - it could ram you powerfully with its horn.
Goldeen loves swimming wild and free in rivers and ponds. If one of these Pokémon is placed in an aquarium, it will shatter even the thickest glass with one ram of its horn and make its escape.
Its dorsal and pectoral fins are strongly developed like muscles. It can swim at a speed of five knots.
Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of "The Water Queen".
In the springtime, schools of Goldeen can be seen swimming up falls and rivers. It metes out staggering damage with its single horn.
It swims elegantly by fluttering its tail fin as if it were a dress. It has the look of a queen.
It swims at a steady 5 knots. If it senses danger, it will strike back with its sharp horn.
Though it appears very elegant when swimming with fins unfurled, it can jab powerfully with its horn.
A strong swimmer, it is capable of swimming nonstop up fast streams at a steady speed of five knots per hour.
Its dorsal, pectoral, and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the water dancer.
Goldeen is a very beautiful Pokémon with fins that billow elegantly in water. However, don't let your guard down around this Pokémon-it could ram you powerfully with its horn.
When the weather grows warm, they form groups and swim upriver. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that spring has arrived.
Spellbound by the length of its horn and the beauty of its fins, many strange Trainers raise Goldeen and nothing but Goldeen.
Although known for their splendid tail fins, Goldeen apparently compete among themselves to see whose horn is thickest and sharpest.
The way it swims along fluttering its dress-like fins has earned it the name “princess of the water.”
Its dorsal, pectoral, and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the Water Dancer.
At some point during her journey, Misty caught a Goldeen in Kanto . Goh caught a Goldeen in " A Little Rocket R & R! ".
Goldeen may be based on a koi or a goldfish. Its horn may be a reference to narwhals.
Goldeen is a combination of golden and queen . It may also incorporate goldfish .
Seaking is a primarily orange and white, fish-like Pokémon. It has round, dark eyes, prominent pink lips, two small fangs, and a cream-colored horn in the center of its forehead. A female will have a smaller horn than a male. Most of its body is orange with a patch of white under its mouth and along its underside. There are several black markings on its body: two thick lines under each eye, a large wavy patch on its back, and several speckles near its tail. It has billowing pectoral fins and a pair of tail fins shaped like butterfly wings, all of which are white specked with black. However, its dorsal fin is pure white and rigid.
The female Seaking has a smaller horn.
These Pokémon live in fresh water, often sheltering in hollow boulders at the bottom of rivers or streams.
Seaking can have the ability Swift Swim or the ability Water Veil . Swift Swim increases Seaking's Speed when it is raining. Water Veil causes Seaking to be immune to burns. Its horn can function like a drill and it is known to be very territorial.
Seaking evolves from Goldeen starting at level 33.
In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks.
It is the male's job to make a nest by carving out boulders in a stream using the horn on its head.
During spawning season, Seaking gather from all over, coloring the rivers a brilliant red.
Using its horn, it bores holes in riverbed boulders, making nests to prevent its eggs from washing away.
When autumn comes, the males patrol the area around their nests in order to protect their offspring.
In the autumn, Seaking males can be seen performing courtship dances in riverbeds to woo females. During this season, this Pokémon's body coloration is at its most beautiful.
Seaking is very protective of its eggs. The male and female will take turns patrolling around their nest and eggs. The guarding of eggs by these Pokémon goes on for over a month.
The horn on its head is sharp like a drill. It bores a hole in a boulder to make its nest.
It punches holes in boulders on stream-beds. This is a clever innovation that prevents its eggs from being attacked or washed away by the current.
It makes its nest by hollowing out boulders in streams with its horn. It defends its eggs with its life.
To protect its family, it will fight with its drill-sharp horn. It lives in hollowed rocks in streams.
In autumn, its body becomes more fatty in preparing to propose to a mate. It takes on beautiful colors.
When the weather grows cold, its whole body flushes a deep red. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that autumn has arrived.
Trainers who are crazy for Seaking are divided into horn enthusiasts and fin enthusiasts. The two groups do not get along well.
Its horn spins like a drill to steadily hollow out rocks—even harder ones. The coloration of the male is more vivid.
To attract females, males dance on the river’s floor. The females gather around the male that dances most gracefully.
Seaking may be based on koi and goldfish similarly to its pre-evolution. It may also be based on one of the forms of Vishnu from Hindu religion known as Matsya, often depicted as a fish donning a horn.
Seaking most likely comes from sea and king .
Staryu is a star shaped Pokémon. Its "arms" are brown. It seems to have some kind of crystal or gem for a core. The core is surrounded by a yellow or gold "barrier".
Staryu are mysterious Pokémon that lie on the seabed during the day and float up to the surface at night. For this reason, Pokémon like Lumineon often nibble on them as a reliable source of food.
Even a Staryu cut into pieces can regenerate as long as its core is intact. Their centers are vital to their survival and are irreplaceable. These cores glow brightly at night when Staryu are active, whereas the cores of sick Staryu glow faintly and flicker.
Staryu mostly live by the seashore in large numbers. Groups of Staryu, referred to as "constellations", rise to the surface each night, cores aglow. They seem to float aimlessly (though they are actually filter-feeding), gazing at the stars. Their cores mysteriously pulse at the same rate as a human's resting heartbeat. From above, oceans with large numbers of Staryu seem to mimic and align with the twinkling skies above. However, Staryu only become active if the stars are visible; if clouds obscure the night sky, they will stay on the seafloor and their cores will not light up.
Staryu have the unique ability to regenerate their bodies if they are torn apart. As long as the core remains, they can regenerate. At the night, the red stone at the center of Staryu twinkle up like stars in the sky.
Staryu evolves into Starmie if it touches a Water Stone .
An enigmatic Pokémon that can regenerate any appendage it loses in battle.
As long as the center section is unharmed, It can grow back fully even if it is chopped to bits.
At night, the center of its body slowly flickers with the same rhythm as a human heartbeat.
Even if its body is torn, it can regenerate as long as the glowing central core remains intact.
When the stars twinkle at night, it floats up from the sea floor, and its body's center core flickers.
Staryu's center section has an organ called the core that shines bright red. If you go to a beach toward the end of summer, the glowing cores of these Pokémon look like the stars in the sky.
Staryu apparently communicates with the stars in the night sky by flashing the red core at the center of its body. If parts of its body are torn, this Pokémon simply regenerates the missing pieces and limbs.
It appears in large numbers by seashores. At night, its central core flashes with a red light.
It gathers with others in the night and makes its red core glow on and off with the twinkling stars. It can regenerate limbs if they are severed from its body.
If its body is torn, it can grow back of the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight.
If its body is torn, it can grow back if the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight.
Large numbers of these Pokémon make their home at the seaside. At night, a strange red glow radiates from the center of their bodies.
This Pokémon gets nibbled on by Lumineon and others. Thanks to its red core, it regenerates fast, so it's unconcerned by their snack attacks.
In many places, there are folktales of stardust falling into the ocean and becoming Staryu.
No number of injuries can bother Staryu. Its amazing regenerative powers return it to its previous state in half a day.
As long as the center section is unharmed, this Pokémon can grow back fully even if it is chopped to bits.
If you visit a beach at the end of summer, you'll be able to see groups of Staryu lighting up in a steady rhythm.
Fish Pokémon nibble at it, but Staryu isn't bothered. Its body regenerates quickly, even if part of it is completely torn off.
Misty owns a Staryu , her favorite Pokémon. As such, she used it very frequently in matches.
【公式】ヒトデマンのうた「ぼくらのヒトデマン」MV（ポケモンだいすきクラブ）
An official Ultraman parody to feature Staryu.
Staryu's design seems to be based on a Starfish . It may also be based on actual stars due to its supposed relations with space.
Staryu's concept, design, and voice effects in the anime are presumable references to the Ultraman series. Additionally, Staryu's prototype within the Capsule Monsters was called Mīmī (ミミー) where the spaceship of Alien Mimy from Ultraseven and the Pairan from Warning from Space possess notable similarities in etymology and design with Staryu; [2] [3] Ultraseven served as one of major inspirations for the Pokémon franchise, and Mīmī was illustrated to battle against "Karabajio", the early concept for Blastoise presumably based on Gamera , the character bears connections both with the production of Warning from Space and the "Capsule Monsters". [4]
Staryu's name is derived from the words star and yu , which may be a misspelling of the word "you". It may also derive from 魚 / 鱼 yú (Chinese for 'fish').
Starmie is a purple starfish-like Pokémon with a red core surrounded by a golden formation. It appears to have more than five appendages.
Interestingly, Starmie's "back-half" has been depicted several different ways. In the anime Starmie has the appearance of two starfish fused together; while in more modern games the back-half has been shown to spin wildly completely independent of the front-half of the Pokémon . Many fans tend to think of the anime's depiction as the more realistic of the two, considering the rapid spinning would obviously get in the way of any trainer trying to surf on this particular Pokémon . Starmie's core shines in a rainbow of seven colors, some people value this core as a type of jewelry.
Upon Mega Evolution , Starmie’s bottom appendages elongate in size to become legs, allowing it to take on a human-like form and behaviors. The edges of its golden formation are also somewhat altered as well.
They can flash their gems in a single color, alternating between different shades as if sending coded messages. Starmie swim by spinning themselves like propellers through the water, filter-feeding as they go.
Starmie are able to emit peculiar signal waves from the gem-like core attached to the center of their bodies. These waves are said to cause headaches to those who get near Starmie (according to the Pokémon Sun Pokédex entry). The core radiate the seven colors of the rainbow, earning them the nickname "gem of the sea".
Starmie evolves from Staryu if it touches a Water Stone . Starmie can Mega Evolve into Mega Starmie using its Starminite .
Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem.
The center section is named the core. People think it is communicating when it glows in 7 colors.
The center section of its body is called the core. It glows in a different color each time it is seen.
Regardless of the environment it lives in, its body grows to form a symmetrical geometric shape.
It is said that it uses the seven colored core of its body to send electric waves into outer space.
Starmie's center section - the core - glows brightly in seven colors. Because of its luminous nature, this Pokémon has been given the nickname "the gem of the sea".
Starmie swims through water by spinning its star-shaped body as if it were a propeller on a ship. The core at the center of this Pokémon's body glows in seven colors.
This Pokémon has a geometric body. Because of its body, the locals suspect that it is an alien creature.
People in ancient times imagined that Starmie were transformed from the reflections of stars that twinkled on gentle waves at night.
At the center of its body is a red core, which sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky.
The center section of its body is called the core. It golws in a different color each time it is seen.
Starmie's center section-the core-glows brightly in seven colors. Because of its luminous nature, this Pokémon has been given the nickname after the gem of the sea.
Its shining core is thought to receive and transmit enigmatic signals. It has been known to cause headaches in those who approach it.
Its unusual body shape, reminiscent of abstract art, led local people to spread rumors that this Pokémon may be an invader from outer space.
Its sparkling core is called “the gem of the sea.” This core can be made into high-priced accessories that are traded in secret.
It rotates its geometrically shaped body to swim through the water. It always seems to be sending out mysterious radio waves.
The center section is named the core. People think it is communicating when it glows in seven colors.
This Pokémon has an organ known as its core. The organ glows in seven colors when Starmie is unleashing its potent psychic powers.
Starmie swims by spinning its body at high speed. As this Pokémon cruises through the ocean, it absorbs tiny plankton.
At the center of its body is a red core that sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky. Mega Evolution : Its movements have become more humanlike. Whether it's simply trying to communicate or wants to supplant humanity is unclear.
In the anime, Misty owns both Starmie and a Staryu at the same time, making it one of the extremely rare cases that a trainer has both pre- and post-evolutions on their person at the same time. She later gave away Starmie to the Cerulean City Gym to perform underwater shows, but kept her Staryu.
Starmie is most likely based on a starfish , specifically different species that are able to grow more than the usuall five limbs. It may also be based on actual stars due to its supposed relations with space. The ability to fire beam attacks from its gem, and the gem itself acting as a heart may have been inspired by the Ultraman series, as Ultra Warriors have similar gems on their chests and fire similar-looking beams.
Mega Starmie took the Ultraman reference even further with its longer legs, which may reference the regenerative aspects of real-life starfish, in which they start out as small before regrowing to their matching size. Its Pokédex entry and appearance (as well as one of the side quests found in Legends Z-A) references the 1956 movie, Warning from Space , in which one of the Pairans (the starfish-like antagonistic aliens) disguise itself as a human to communicate with them. It also a pun on 人手 hitode (starfish), which can be translated as "human hand". The pose it makes when send out resembles a similar pose made by Starman, one of the enemies from the MOTHER/Earthbound series, which was created by Creatures Inc. (then known as Ape Inc.), one of the co-owners of the Pokémon franchise.
Starmie's name, comes from the words "star" and Star mie sounds like "me", while its previous evolution, Star yu , sounds like "you". The "mie" part of its name may be based on Mīmī (ミミー), the prototype concept of Staryu . [2]
Mr. Mime is a bipedal, humanoid, somewhat doll-like Pokémon. Blue growths resembling clown hair extend from the sides of its pale pink head, and there is a magenta circle on each cheek. Its jaw is curved inward, resembling the mouth of a wooden dummy. It has a round, white body with a magenta spot in the middle, light pink arms and legs that connect to its body via magenta spheres, and small white coverings over its knees. Its white hands resemble gloves with magenta pads on the tips of its white fingers and its dark blue feet curl upward at the tips.
Galarian Mr. Mime are mostly blue and white. Much like other Mr. Mime they also have blue growths resembling clown hair, however, these also extend and cover its cheeks. They have wider-shaped eyes and a blue nose. They have suit-like bodies comprising a white top, blue shoulder spheres, blue bottom trousers, and a diamond-shaped crystal that resembles a tie. They have mitten-like hands and feet that are more defined, resembling blue shoes with light blue soles, presumably made out of ice.
Mr. Mime are very prideful of their pantomime acts, and will heavily slap anyone that interrupts them while miming. They can often be seen performing in the streets of cities and towns, where they mime in exchange for food.
Galarian Mr. Mime are widely known in the region for their talent in tap dancing and are likely the result of Mr. Rime 's influence over Mime Jr. imitating their dance steps. Pokémon are commonly seen performing for food in large cities, especially in the cold north of the region. In fact, some people believed that they evolved to tap-dance specifically to cater to the tastes of Galarian city dwellers, who were more likely to reward dancing Mr. Mime with food. In the winter months, they will visit towns further south as traveling troupes, much to the delight of children across the region.
Mr. Mime are gifted with the art of miming at a young age, but as they mature, they gain the ability to make invisible objects by emitting energy from their fingers and minutely vibrating their fingertips to harden the air around them and form a wall. Barriers generated this way can repel harsh attacks, and its gestures and motions can convince watchers that something unseeable actually exists; once this is achieved, the perceived item will materialize.
Through their feet, Galarian Mr. Mime are able to control the temperature and create a floor of ice, which they can kick up to act as a barrier.
Mr. Mime evolves from Mime Jr. if leveled up while knowing the move Mimic and Galarian Mr. Mime evolves into Mr. Rime starting at level 42.
If interrupted while it is miming, it will slap around the offender with its broad hands.
Always practices its pantomime act. It makes enemies believe something exists that really doesn't.
A skilled mime from birth, it gains the ability to create invisible objects as it matures.
Its fingertips emit a peculiar force field that hardens air to create an actual wall.
It uses the mysterious power it has in its fingers to solidify air into an invisible wall.
Mr. Mime is a master of pantomime. Its gestures and motions convince watchers that something unseeable actually exists. Once it is believed, it will exist as if it were a real thing.
It is adept at conning people. It is said to be able to create walls out of thin air by miming.
If interrupted while it is miming, it will suddenly DoubleSlap the offender with its broad hands.
A Mr. Mime is a master of pantomime. It can convince others that something unseeable actually exists. Once believed, the imaginary object does become real.
It is a pantomime expert that can create invisible but solid walls using miming gestures.
Emanations from its fingertips solidify the air into invisible walls that repel even harsh attacks.
It shapes an invisible wall in midair by minutely vibrating its fingertips to stop molecules in the air.
Mr. Mime is a master of pantomime. Its gestures and motions convince watchers that something unseeable actually exists. Once the watchers are convinced, the unseeable thing exists as if it were real.
Its pantomime skills are wonderful. You may become enraptured while watching it, but next thing you know, Mr. Mime has made a real wall.
It creates invisible walls with its pantomiming. If you don’t act impressed, it will attack you with a double slap!
Kantonian Form: The broadness of its hands may be no coincidence—many scientists believe its palms became enlarged specifically for pantomiming. Galarian Form: Its talent is tap-dancing. It can also manipulate temperatures to create a floor of ice, which this Pokémon can kick up to use as a barrier.
Kantonian Form: It's known for its top-notch pantomime skills. It protects itself from all sorts of attacks by emitting auras from its fingers to create walls. Galarian Form: It can radiate chilliness from the bottoms of its feet. It'll spend the whole day tap-dancing on a frozen floor.
The behavior of this clown-like Pokémon reminds one of pantomime. It creates invisible walls using a force emitted from its fingertips.
Kantonian Form : It uses the mysterious power that emanates from its fingers to solidify the air around it into invisible walls. Galarian Form : It uses its tap-dancing steps to rapidly chill the surrounding area and form a splendid stage made of ice.
Ash obtains a Mr. Mime in the Episode " It's Mr. Mime Time! " which he shares with his mom Delia . Delia first mistook Mr. Mime for Ash, because Ash was dressed in a Mr. Mime outfit. Delia nicknamed the Mr. Mime ' Mimey ', rendering him as one of the few Pokémon that is ever nicknamed in the anime. Mr. Mime has appeared with her ever since, helping her around the house. In the Pokémon Journeys: The Series , Mimey was left at Cerise Laboratory to look after Ash, adding him to his "World Team".
Mr. Mime is based on a combination of a clown , mime , and a marionette . It seems to specifically be based on pantomiming, the act of acting with "invisible" objects such as boxes or walls.
Galarian Mr. Mime seems to be based on the act of dancing rather than miming, specifically tap dancing . It may also be based on ice skating due to the ice being located at the bottom of its feet. Most of its body also appears to be based on winter clothing, such as its hands resembling mittens, its cheeks resembling earmuffs, and its chest resembling a scarf or tie . Its appearance also has a similar one to that of a snowman .
Mr. Mime is literally Mr., a male title, and "mime".
Barrierd comes from "barrier" and possibly also "weird".
Dream World Scyther
Scyther resembles a mantis. It is green with two wings that enable flight. It has two razor-sharp scythes for arms are cream-colored section between its head, thorax, and abdomen. Its feet are tall and almost extends its thighs, rounded, and conical; each foot ends in three small, white claws on its front side.
Female Scyther have a larger abdomen than male Scyther.
Scyther is an adept hunter that tears at its prey with its scythes. Thanks to its green coloration, it can camouflage itself well in the grasslands and forests where it lives. Humans rarely encounter wild Scyther in these areas, however. Said to be like a ninja, Scyther can move so quickly that it cannot be followed, increasing the effectiveness of its scythes. It maintains the sharpness of its blades through battle as well as by cutting through hard objects, such as trees; it can cut down a massive tree with just a single slice.
Wild Scyther form swarms with a single leader chosen through combat. When a challenger successfully defeats a current leader and replaced it, the defeated leader is exiled from the swarm. It has also been shown that Scyther becomes more aggressive than those of the swarm. Groves of cleanly-cut stumps are a sign of Scyther pack territory.
Scyther can have the ability Swarm or the ability Technician . Swarm increases Scyther's Bug -type moves by 1.5x when its HP is lower than 1/3. Technician increases the power of moves under 60 attack power. Scyther's most impressive feature is its scythe-like arms that can easily cut through metal. Scyther is also known for its agility . While hunting in the wild or in a battle between trainers, it relies on its speed to strike quickly and to avoid being struck in return by its foe. Its high-supernatural speed can make it seem to be in more than one place at once, or to seem invisible as it moves in, strikes, and leaves the opponent before he can feel the blow. Scyther's wings are capable of flight, but this is rare; it is not a fast or an agile flier, and it is a better hunter on its own feet.
Scyther evolves into Scizor if traded while holding a Metal Coat , or just from exposure to it in Pokémon Legends: Arceus . Alternatively, Scyther evolves into Kleavor if exposed to a Black Augurite .
With ninja-like agility and speed, it can create the illusion that there is more than one.
Leaps out of tall grass and slices prey with its scythes. The movement looks like that of a ninja.
It slashes through grass with its sharp scythes, moving too fast for the human eye to track.
When it moves, it leaves only a blur. If it hides in grass, its protective colors make it invisible.
It's very proud of its speed. It moves so fast that its opponent does not even know what knocked it down.
Scyther is blindingly fast. Its blazing speed enhances the effectiveness of the twin scythes on its forearms. This Pokémon's scythes are so effective, they can slice through thick logs in one wicked stroke.
It tears and shreds prey with its wickedly sharp scythes. It very rarely spreads its wings to fly.
Its blindingly fast speed adds to the sharpness of its twin forearm scythes. The scythes can slice through thick logs in one wicked stroke.
It is nearly impossible to parry its attacking scythes. Its movements are like a ninja's.
The sharp scythes on its forearms become increasingly sharp by cutting through hard objects.
It confuses its prey with its quick, ninja-like movements. Then, in an instant, it cleaves them with its scythes.
While young, they live together deep in the mountains, training themselves in how to fight with their scythes and move at high speeds.
Its two sharp scythes are more than just weapons. It uses them with dexterity to dress its prey before eating.
Some call it a ninja. Its movements— imperceptibly quick—are sufficient to cleave the air in two. It’s very popular in Alola.
As Scyther fights more and more battles, its scythes become sharper and sharper. With a single slice, Scyther can fell a massive tree.
If you come across an area in a forest where a lot of the trees have been cut down, what you've found is a Scyther's territory.
The large, wickedly sharp scythes on its forearms are truly fearsome weapons. Prey’s attempts to flee are unfailingly thwarted by this Pokémon's nimble motions.
In the anime, Tracey catches a Scyther in the Orange Islands . It is aged and was recently removed from command of its clan by a younger, stronger Scyther. The bug Pokémon reconcile their differences through the interference of Team Rocket , and Tracey's Scyther is allowed to leave with him with its conflicts fully resolved. Tracey's elderly Scyther (similar to Master Splinter from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles ) is incredibly strong-willed, preferring to keep watch over the travelers while they sleep, as opposed to staying in its Poké Ball .
In the episode Showdown at Dark City , two gangs were fighting in a dusty town. The leader of one team had an Electabuzz while the other had a Scyther . When Ash poured ketchup barrels on both Pokémon, they locked into each other in a death grip, meaning that Scyther and Electabuzz are possibly provoked by the color red.
Goh caught a Scyther in Working My Way Back to Mew! .
Scyther appears to be based on a mantis or a leaf bug. Its head also shares some aspects with reptilians.
Scyther comes from the word 'scythe'. With the added '-er' suffix to the name, the name can be taken as "someone who uses a scythe".
Sutoraiku is literally strike.
Jynx is a purple-skinned humanoid Pokémon. It has long blonde hair and a flowing lower body which resembles a red dress, the top of which has a red chestplate outlined in gold that most closely resembles female breasts, as well as luscious pink lips. Its hands have five fingers each and its arms are white. Jynx is a female-only species with no male counterpart.
Jynx originally had black skin, which was dropped due to the resemblance to blackface and American racial sensitivity; this update was reflected shortly after in all sectors of the franchise, with the exception of the anime keeping the black design until the middle of Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire .
Jynx are found in secluded, snowy areas. Though rare, they seem to become more common during strong blizzards. As Jynx walk, they sway their hips alluringly. Depending on their emotions, they may move in slightly different manners. Their strange movements compel those who see them to move with them, dancing in unison. Those moving may not even realize they are swaying their hips until someone else (who is probably also dancing) points it out to them. Jynx use their dancing to talk to one another.
However, they also have a form of oral speech, which sounds ​uncannily similar to a foreign human language. For this reason, some musicians have written songs specifically for Jynx to sing. Despite their curious behavior, Jynx are kind Pokémon. As they walk and sway, people and Pokémon alike subconsciously follow them. During blizzards, they will often lead these hypnotized beings to safety away from the cold. Then, they disappear almost as quickly as they appeared. When Jynx walk, they mysteriously leave no footprints in the snow. In rural, barren regions of Galar, Jynx are known in folklore as Queens of Ice and are worshiped for their beautiful singing and dancing.
Jynx can have the ability Oblivious or the ability Forewarn . Oblivious grants Jynx immunity to infatuation. Forewarn allows Jynx to identify the opponent's move with the highest attack power.
When Jynx first debuted in the anime, many stated that Jynx is a reincarnation of Black face (which was done in olden days when people paint their skin brown and lips pink) due to her black skin and pink lips. Because of this all episodes featuring Jynx in the early seasons were removed due to historical reasons and would not return until the Advanced series where it underwent a small change now having purple skin instead.
Jynx evolves from Smoochum starting at level 30.
It seductively wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it.
Appears to move to a rhythm of its own, as if it were dancing. It wiggles its hips as it walks.
It rocks its body rhythmically. It appears to alter the rhythm depending on how it is feeling.
It speaks a language similar to that of humans. However, it seems to use dancing to communicate.
It has several different cry patterns, each of which seems to have its own meaning.
Jynx walks rhythmically, swaying and shaking its hips as if it were dancing. Its motions are so bouncingly alluring, people seeing it are compelled to shake their hips without giving any thought to what they are doing.
It speaks using a language that sounds human. Research is under way to determine what is being said.
A Jynx sashays rhythmically as if it were dancing. Its motions are so bouncingly alluring, people seeing it are compelled to shake their hips without noticing.
Its cries sound like human speech. However, it is impossible to tell what it is trying to say.
It wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it.
It sways its hips to a rhythm all its own. The precise movements of Jynx living in Alola are truly wonderful.
Its strange cries sound like human language. There are some musicians who compose songs for Jynx to sing.
In certain parts of Galar, Jynx was once feared and worshiped as the Queen of Ice.
The Jynx of Galar often have beautiful and delicate voices. Some of these Pokémon have even gathered a fan base.
Jynx appeared early in the anime with her black-skinned appearance until " All Things Bright and Beautifly! " (in a scene that was removed from the English dub). The Pokémon Smash! episode PSM116 in December 2012 aired an updated version of " PM('97)065 " with her purple design, and following the series' expansion onto Amazon in 2017, all streaming releases in Japan retroactively updated her design to be purple
As of " AG116 ", all Jynx appearances are created using her purple design, even in the episodes' original airings on TV Tokyo . As late as 2024, Kids Station has rerun " PM('97)065 " with Jynx's original black design.
Jynx is based on the Yama-uba. The Yama-uba share many traits with Jynx, such as having no feet, living in snowy mountains (hence why Jynx is part Ice type), long bright hair, a red dress, and are all female. Jynx may also be based on ganguro (a Japanese fashion style mostly popular with women that involves heavy tanning and questions traditional Japanese ideas of beauty), a stereotypical opera singer (based on Brunhilde, a Viking character from Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle), or simply someone suffering from frostbite (hence its odd skin color).
Jynx is a stylized spelling of jinx , meaning curse and, as an interjection, used when two people say the same at once, likely alluding to its Psychic type.
Rougela possibly comes from rouge (French for red, referring to its dress or to lipstick) and the feminine suffix la.
Concept artwork of Electabuzz.
Electabuzz is a type of bipedal, feline-like Pokémon with bright yellow coloring and black stripes. It has lightning bolt shaped-markings on its body and large forearms. Some of its feline properties are its long tail which resembles a tiger's and large fangs. Its two legs are short, and its feet are large with two sharp claws on either one. The more human aspects of its appearance are its long arms and five-digit hands.
Electabuzz often gather in groups to wait for oncoming storms, and tend to race for lightning bolts to eat. They cause power outages when they feed off power plants, and such facilities often employ Ground -type Pokémon as a preventive measure due to Electabuzz's weakness to the type. Many areas actually employ Electabuzz as natural lightning rods.
Most Electabuzz possess the ability Static which allows the opponent to have a one-third chance to become paralyzed when it uses a physical attack on Electabuzz. Electabuzz's body is filled with electricity which can sometimes cause accidental blackouts. It is said that its body glows whitish-blue hue when in the dark. However, it has been known to leak more electricity than it takes in. Much like Ash's Pikachu and Clemont's Dedenne , they can communicate via electricity.
Electabuzz is a master of Electric-type moves but can also use Physical and Elemental punches, such as Brick Break .
Electabuzz evolves from Elekid starting at level 30 and evolves into Electivire if traded while holding an Electirizer . Alternatively, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus , Electabuzz evolves into Electivire if it touches an Electirizer.
Normally found near power plants, they can wander away and cause major blackouts in cities.
If a major power outage occurs, it is certain that this Pokémon has eaten electricity at a power plant.
Electricity runs across the surface of its body. In darkness, its entire body glows a whitish-blue.
Its body constantly discharges electricity. Getting close to it will make your hair stand on end.
When two Electabuzz touch, they control the electric currents to communicate their feelings.
When a storm arrives, gangs of this Pokémon compete with each other to scale heights that are likely to be stricken by lightning bolts. Some towns use Electabuzz in place of lightning rods.
It loves to feed on strong electricity. It occasionally appears around large power plants and so on.
When a storm approaches, it competes with others to scale heights that are likely to be stricken by lightning. Some towns use Electabuzz in place of lightning rods.
Half of all blackouts occur when this Pokémon appears at power plants and eats electricity.
It windmills its arms to slightly boost its punches. Foes have been known to escape in the meantime.
Research is progressing on storing lightning in Electabuzz so this energy can be used at any time.
Electricity runs across the surface of its body. In darkness, its entire body glows a whitish blue.
Half of all sudden blackouts are caused by Electabuzz gathering at electric power plants and gobbling up electricity.
Electricity leaks from it in amounts far greater than the amount of electricity it eats.
Electricity permeates its body. It swings its arms round and round to charge up electricity before unleashing a punch.
While it’s often blamed for power outages, the truth is the cause of outages is more often an error on the part of the electric company.
Many power plants keep Ground-type Pokémon around as a defense against Electabuzz that come seeking electricity.
With the coming of a storm, many of these Pokémon will gather under tall trees and sit there waiting for lightning to strike.
Feeds on electrical energy. During sudden showers beneath looming thunderclouds, one can observe Electabuzz scaling tall trees, where the Pokémon will then wait for lightning to strike.
Paul's Electabuzz.
Electabuzz is based on an Oni . Oni are often depicted as wearing tiger pelts, thus tiger features are present in Electabuzz's design. They are also occasionally worshipped as thunder gods, thus its Electric type.
Electabuzz also bears some similarities to the weartiger , a recurring monster from the Dragon Quest video game series.
Electabuzz may come from electric and buzz (as in the buzzing sound some electrical appliances make).
Magmar's body is designed to let it camouflage itself in fire, so it is mainly red and yellow all over. It has a flame pattern on its torso, and a fire on its tail, similar to Charmander and Chimchar (though Chimchar's fire actually is its tail). It has a large beak that can spit out fire, thus giving it the species name the 'Spitfire' Pokémon .
Magmar have the ability Flame Body . Flame Body has a 30% chance of burning a foe that physically attacks Magmar.
It also has Vital Spirit , which prevents it from falling asleep.
Its body temperature is 1,200 degrees Celsius [ Notes 1 ] . Its body shimmers like the sun and its breath can cause miniature heat waves around it.
Magmar evolves from Magby starting at level 30 and evolves into Magmortar if traded while holding a Magmarizer , Alternatively, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus , Magmar evolves into Magmortar if it touches a Magmarizer.
[ Notes 4 ]
Magmar appears to be based on a bird-like animal, possibly a booby due to Japanese name. It may also be based on the Karura , a bipedal creature with a bird-like head that could breath fire. It also appears similar to lizards and possibly the mythical salamander , which is associated with fire.
Its Japanese name, Boober, may come from booby (as in the kind of bird) and burn . Its Thai name, บูเบอร์, is a transliteration of this name.
Its English, Spanish, Italian, French, and German name, Magmar, may come from magma and fumar (Spanish for 'to smoke'). Its Korean name, 마그마 (Magmar), is a transliteration of this name.
Pinsir resembles flat-stag beetle and has long, pricked horns on its head. Its whole body is a light brown color with three claws on each limb. It has small triangular angry white eyes with small black pupils and its mouth has multiple sharp teeth arranged horizontally rather than vertically. It has three white claws on the ends of each of its hands and feet. Its feet are thicker than its hands. As Mega Pinsir, it gains a large pair of clear, yellow wings with an area of orange venation near the base. Additionally, a set of brown elytra appear. Slicing through each side of the elytra is a pair of orange blades. Its arms are longer and it has a T-shaped spike on each forearm. The pincers on its head are now longer with larger spikes, its eyes are now yellow, and its pupils are now smaller. The claws on its feet also point straight outwards instead of to the side.
Pinsir is known for its strong pincers, using them aggressively in battle to either split foes into two or toss foes that are too tough to be crushed. Despite this nature, it grows weak in cold environments and will bury into dirt, sand, or leaves with their two pincers sticking up from the ground. It is also known to enjoy tree sap and Honey like many other Bug -type Pokémon. Pinsir lives deep in the temperate forests and jungles, where it burrows underground or hides in the treetops on nights cold enough to render it immobile. It tends to group together as a result.
In the Alola region, it is known to get along well with Heracross while it has a strong rivalry with Vikavolt .
The size of their pincers are used to judge attractiveness; the bigger, the more attractive.
When it Mega Evolves, Pinsir appears to be in a constant state of excitement and rarely touches the ground due to its newfound flight.
Pinsir can have the ability Hyper Cutter or the ability Mold Breaker . Hyper Cutter prevents reduction of Pinsir's Attack stat. Mold Breaker allows Pinsir to use moves that would otherwise be non-effective because of an ability. Very rarely, it may have Moxie , which boosts its Attack by one stage after it defeats an opponent. A Pinsir's horns can crush many objects and allow it to pick up extremely heavy things. All Mega Pinsir have the ability Aerilate , which converts all Normal -type moves into Flying -type moves and makes them stronger. It can fly at about 30mph/50 km/h and use its horns to pierce enemies before shredding them. In fact, it can lift something 10 times its weight and still fly easily.
Pinsir does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Pinsir using its Pinsirite .
If it fails to crush the victim in its pincers, it will swing it around and toss it hard.
Grips its prey in its pincers and squeezes hard! It can't move if it's cold, so it lives in warm places.
With its horns, it digs burrows to sleep in at night. In the morning, damp soil clings to its body.
Swings its long antlers wildly to attack. During cold periods, it hides deep in forests.
When the temperature drops at night, it sleeps on treetops or among roots where it is well hidden.
Pinsir is astoundingly strong. It can grip a foe weighing twice its weight in its horns and easily lift it. This Pokémon's movements turn sluggish in cold places.
Pinsir has a pair of massive horns. Protruding from the surface of these horns are thorns. These thorns are driven deeply into the foe's body when the pincer closes, making it tough for the foe to escape.
Its two long pincer horns are powerful. Once they grip an enemy, they won't release until the foe is torn.
If it fails to crush the foe in its pincers, it will swing around and toss the opponent.
Their pincers are strong enough to shatter thick logs. Because they dislike cold, Pinsir burrow and sleep under the ground on chilly nights.
It grips prey with its pincers until the prey is torn in half. What it can't tear, it tosses far.
It grips prey with its powerful pincers and will not let go until the prey is torn in half.
It swings its long pincer horns wildly to attack. During cold periods, it hides deep in forests.
It grips its prey in its pincers and splits them apart. Although it is a powerful Pokémon, it can't deal with the cold. Mega Evolution : The influence of Mega Evolution leaves it in a state of constant excitement. It pierces enemies with its two large horns before shredding them.
One solid blow from its horns is enough to split apart a large tree. Its greatest rival in Alola is Vikavolt. Mega Evolution : Bathed in the energy of Mega Evolution, its wings become unusually developed. It flies at speeds of approximately 30 mph.
It gets into territorial disputes with Vikavolt. For some reason, it apparently gets along well with Heracross in Alola. Mega Evolution : After Mega Evolution, it becomes able to fly. Perhaps because it’s so happy, it rarely touches the ground.
Although it’s tough, it can’t handle cold well. When night falls, it buries itself in leafage and sleeps. Mega Evolution : It zips around at blistering speeds, looking for an opening to skewer its opponent on its giant pincers.
Grips its prey in its pincers and squeezes hard! It can't move if it's cold, so it lives in warm places. Mega Evolution: With its vaunted horns, it can lift an opponent 10 times heavier than itself and fly about with ease.
These Pokémon judge one another based on pincers. Thicker, more impressive pincers make for more popularity with the opposite gender.
This Pokémon clamps its pincers down on its prey and then either splits the prey in half or flings it away.
It grips prey with its pincers until the prey is torn apart. What it can't tear, it tosses far away.
It swings its long pincers wildly to attack. During cold periods, it hides deep in forests. Mega Evolution : After Mega Evolution, it becomes able to fly. Perhaps because it's so happy, it rarely touches the ground.
Pinsir is based on a stag beetle , mostly a mix of the Sawtooth Stag , the Miyama Stag Beetle and its Mega Evolution has similar pincers to that of the Calcodes Versicolor.
Pinsir comes from the word "pincer".
Kairosu may be a combination of the Greek letter Χ (カイ kai ) and cross (referring to its scissor-like horns). Alternatively, it may be a combination of 傀 kai (large), 魁偉 kai (brawny), or 刈 kai (cut) combined with κοριός korios (Greek for "bug").
Tauros resembles a bull.
Its Kantonian form is a tan color, with a brown mane that covers part of its stout body, a slightly chubby belly, somewhat fat haunches, and a hump on its back. Tauros has blue-grey hooves and horns. It also has three long tails. On its head, he has three blue circles from its forehead down to its eyes.
Its Paldean variants are dark grey in color with a black mane.
Combat Breed Tauros has short, rounded, almost straight horns, and its mane and tails are shaped similarly to Kantonian Tauros.
Blaze Breed Tauros has sharp horns that point forward and bent at right angles, its mane is spiky with streaks of red, and its three tails are intertwined.
Aqua Breed Tauros has horns that usually point upward but can rotate backward, and each horn has two round, bulbous forms as well as a hole on its tip. Its mane flows downward and is shaped like a beard, with five teardrop-shaped blue accents on it. Its tails are usually straight, but can bend to form a propeller shape, which aids it in swimming.
Tauros is a violent, rowdy Pokémon that whips itself into a frenzy using its three tails. It serves as a warning to others that Tauros is about to charge with astonishing speed. Once it starts charging, it is unable to stop or change course until it hits something. It will lock horns with others of its kind, and the herd's protector takes pride in its battle-scarred horns. While still ferocious, Tauros are calmer in Alola than elsewhere, likely due to the region's climate. The practice of riding Tauros is believed to have started in Alola. However, Tauros in Galar are more volatile and don't want to be ridden.
In Paldea, Tauros are bred into three different forms (Combat, Blaze, and Aqua), each with specific traits.
Combat Breed Tauros are fierce and possess a muscular build. They are experts of close-ranged combat and will use their horns to strike at the enemy's weak spot.
Blaze Breed Tauros are well named from their ability to emit superheated air from their nostrils. They are also able to increase the temperature of their horns to a blistering 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. The horns leave the opponent with burn marks and wounds. The tails of a Blaze Breed Tauros are unique in that they are intertwined rather than separated.
Aqua Breed Tauros has more body fat, which allows them to easily float on the water's surface. Their horns are capable of expelling high pressurized water jets that not only aid in propulsion but also have enough strength to pierce through enemy defenses.
It lives and travels in herds on plains and grasslands.
Tauros does not evolve .
All three different Paldean Forms have the same base stat distribution.
Ash caught 30 Tauros in " Miniryu no Densetsu ". This episode was undubbed in English and other international versions because of frequent appearances of a projectile weapon (a handgun), creating a plot hole.
Tauros is based on a bull . Its humped shoulders and the dots on its forehead may be derived from zebu (cattle with large, fatty humps on their shoulders), considered to be sacred in India , the dots representing bindi marks.
Paldean Tauros is based on a Spanish Fighting Bull , the national animal of Spain. Aqua Breed Tauros may be inspired by water buffalos , with the tails forming like a propeller or a triskelion, a popular motif used by the Celts in ancient European cultures. Blaze Breed Tauros might be inspired by the Khalkotauroi , a fire breathing bull from Greek mythology, as well as western cartoons of bulls filled with rage and charge towards the color of red. Both forms may be inspired on the controversial, yet popular bullfighting practices in Spain: the Toro embolado, and the Bous a la Mar, the former set their horns on fire, while the latter sees them run down the Marqués de Campo street in the Valencian region of Dénia and end up swimming in the Mediterranean Sea.
Tauros comes from taurus , Latin for "bull".
Kentarosu may come from the Greek Κένταυρος ( centaur ).
Magikarp is a Fish Pokémon. Its body is made up of/covered in red scales. Its fins are either yellow or white. They also have "whiskers" or Maxilliary Barbells. Female Magikarp have white barbells while male Magikarp have yellow barbells. Magikarp refers to them as his magnificent barbs in PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure .
According to the Pokémon Watcher Quincy T. Quackenpoker in The Wacky Watcher! , there are three colorful bands near the fins include: red, blue and yellow bands, during the Magikarp migration to the Rind Island .
The way to tell a male and female Magikarp apart is that a male Magikarp has gold whiskers while a female has white whiskers. In Pokémon GO and its Water Event, the whiskers of the female Magikarp appears to be white silver or platinum. This also applies when it evolves into a female Gyarados as its whiskers remain white silver than its original blue.
Magikarp are often regarded as the “most useless Pokémon.” The most they normally can do is use Splash, which does absolutely nothing. Although they can reach heights of 7 feet using this move, they are unable to change direction in the air, so they land in the exact same place. Legend has it that older Magikarp can splash over mountains, though this has never been seen. In fact, splashing Magikarp actually make easy prey for Flying-type Pokémon like Pidgeotto, who can snatch them up as they bounce. They are also weak swimmers, unable to swim through even weak currents. As a result, many of them congregate in small ponds or lakes, unable swim through river currents. Magikarp are very hardy, however, with strong survival instincts and immune systems. They are able to tolerate waters of nearly any salinity, depth, and pollution level.
A shiny Magikarp.
Despite being strong in the past, its present-day descendants are considerably weaker. It struggles to swim against even the weakest of currents.
Magikarp are often seen as prey to Pokémon such as Pidgeot , which swoop them from the water's surface, and Meowth .
Magikarp evolves into Gyarados starting at level 20.
Magikarp is the most common Pokémon in the waters of all the Pokémon regions. It can be found in every body of water in Kanto , Johto , Hoenn , and Sinnoh . It is considered to be the weakest Pokémon because it can only use three moves. It is a hardy Pokémon that can thrive in any body of water, no matter if the water is freshwater or saltwater. It can even thrive in polluted waters. However, if it is taken care of properly, it evolves into a magnificent Gyarados, at level 20. Until it reaches level 20, it is utterly useless.
In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today.
Famous for being very unreliable. It can be found swimming in seas, lakes, rivers and shallow puddles.
An underpowered, pathetic Pokémon. It may jump high on rare occasions, but never more than seven feet.
For no reason, it jumps and splashes about, making it easy for predators like Pidgeotto to catch it mid-jump.
This weak and pathetic Pokémon gets easily pushed along rivers when there are strong currents.
Magikarp is a pathetic excuse for a Pokémon that is only capable of flopping and splashing. This behavior prompted scientists to undertake research on it.
Magikarp is virtually useless in battle as it can only splash around. As a result, it is considered to be weak. However, it is actually a very hardy Pokémon that can survive in any body of water no matter how polluted it is.
It is virtually worthless in terms of both power and speed. It is the most weak and pathetic Pokémon in the world.
Its swimming muscles are weak, so it is easily washed away by currents. In places where water pools, you can see many Magikarp deposited there by the flow.
It is said to be the world's weakest Pokémon. No one knows why it has managed to survive.
It is unable to swim against even slow-moving currents. It always splashes about for some reason.
A Magikarp living for many years can leap a mountain using Splash . The move remains useless, though.
Magikarp is a pathetic excuse for a Pokémon that is only capable of flopping and splashing. This behavior prompted scientists to undertake research into it.
Although weak and helpless, this Pokémon is incredibly fertile. They exist in such multitudes, you'll soon grow tired of seeing them.
Its reckless leaps make it easy pickings for predators. On the bright side, many Pokémon enjoy longer life spans, thanks to Magikarp.
In the distant past, they were fairly strong, but they have become gradually weaker over time.
Thanks to their strong hold on life, dirty water doesn’t bother them at all. They live in waters all over the world.
A feeble, pitiful imbecile of a Pokémon that is nonetheless very hardy. Unperturbed by turbid water, it can be found living in all sorts of places.
An underpowered, pathetic Pokémon. It may jump high on rare occasions but never more than seven feet.
It is virtually worthless in terms of both power and speed. It is the weakest and most pathetic Pokémon in the world.
Magikarp appeared in the anime from the very beginning, debuting in Pokémon - I Choose You! ". When Ash and Pikachu are fleeing from a flock of Spearow, they jump into a lake to escape, and a Magikarp is seen swimming away followed by a Gyarados, which chases Ash and Pikachu out of the lake.
Magikarp's first major appearance was with Team Rocket in " Battle Aboard the St. Anne ". James gets a Magikarp from a dealer , who cheated his money or bottle caps three times in the whole series of Pokémon Anime , in a golden Poké Ball , of which the gold color disguised the red part of the Poké Ball. It then evolves into a Gyarados , when James kicks it away after the ship sank. The newly evolved Gyarados then uses Dragon Rage to send Ash, Misty, Brock, Pikachu, and Team Rocket blasting away to an island.
Magikarp is based on a carp . Its evolution into Gyarados is based on a Chinese myth about how carp that leapt over large and tall waterfalls would transform into dragons . It also strongly resembles a yellow-eyed rockfish .
Its English name, Magikarp, is a combination of magic and carp . The "magic" part may be said ironically, as it seems to convey something wondrous about a mundane and useless Pokémon.
Its Japanese name, Koiking, is a combination of 鯉 koi (carp) and king , giving its name an ironic slant similar to its English name.
It is a dragon-like Pokémon that is serpentine in shape and covered in blue and yellow scales. It has white fins on top of its body and it has a tan underbelly. It has fins on the side of its face and a large, blue crest on its forehead. Like Magikarp , it has "whiskers" which are either blue or white.
A shiny Gyarados has all the blue scales replaced with red.
Male Gyarados have blue whiskers while female Gyarados have light whiskers which are white. In Pokémon GO and its Water Event, female Gyarados' whiskers are now white/silver or Platinum after evolving from a female Magikarp.
Contrary to their pre-evolution Magikarp , Gyarados are known to be extremely violent, often flying into an Outrage and destroying anything they see. This includes small towns that stand on their wake. This is likely due to them having undergone structural brain transformation that stimulated their brain cells, leading to them becoming ferocious.
Mega Gyarados are monstrously destructive creatures due to the stress imposed on their brains by Mega Evolution, leaving them of nearly nothing but the dangerous instinct to raze everything into cinders.
Despite their violent disposition, Gyarados can be obedient to trainers that they love and trust and can be very misunderstood; they never intentionally destroy things and instead they just have anger problems. When they aren't angry, they are actually quite timid and gentle for a short-tempered sea serpent.
Gyarados in the Alola region will flee upon seeing a school of Wishiwashi .
Gyarados have the ability to incinerate everything on their paths with one single powerful Hyper Beam .
Mega Gyarados are known to travel in Mach speed by jetting water with their side orifices. With such speed, they can split large ships into two.
Gyarados evolves from Magikarp starting at level 20. Gyarados can Mega Evolve into Mega Gyarados using its Gyaradosite .
Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage .
Brutally vicious and enormously destructive. Known for totally destroying cities in ancient times.
They say that during past wars, Gyarados would appear and leave blazing ruins in its wake.
Once it appears, it goes on a rampage. It remains enraged until it demolishes everything around it.
It appears whenever there is world conflict, burning down any place it travels through.
When Magikarp evolves into Gyarados, its brain cells undergo a structural transformation. It is said that this transformation is to blame for this Pokémon's wildly violent nature.
Once Gyarados goes on a rampage, its ferociously violent blood doesn't calm until it has burned everything down. There are records of this Pokémon's rampages lasting a whole month.
It has an extremely aggressive nature. The Hyper Beam it shoots from its mouth totally incinerates all targets.
Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage.
It is an extremely vicious and violent Pokémon. When humans begin to fight, it will appear and burn everything to the ground with intensely hot flames.
Once it appears, its rage never settles until it has razed the fields and mountains around it.
In ancient literature, there is a record of a Gyarados that razed a village when violence flared.
Once it begins to rampage, a Gyarados will burn everything down, even in a harsh storm.
A tale is told of a town that angered Gyarados. Before the sun rose the next day, flames utterly consumed the town, leaving not a trace behind. Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution also affects its brain, leaving no other function except its destructive instinct to burn everything to cinders.
There are people who swear that any place Gyarados appears is fated for destruction. Mega Evolution : It jets water from the orifices on its sides, streaking above the water surface at supersonic speed.
It fires hyper beams in all directions, burning the surrounding area to ash. There are some regions where it’s called "the deity of destruction". Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution places a burden on its body. The stress causes it to become all the more ferocious.
The energy from evolution stimulated its brain cells strongly, causing it to become very ferocious. Mega Evolution : It zooms out of the water at Mach speeds. Even large ships caught in its path are split cleanly in two.
Brutally vicious and enormously destructive. Known for totally destroying cities in ancient times. Mega Evolution: Although it obeys its instinctive drive to destroy everything within its reach, it will respond to orders from a Trainer it truly trusts.
Once Gyarados appears, its rage never settles until the Pokémon has razed the fields and mountains around it.
I suspect this Pokémon to be the true identity of a dragon written of in ancient texts, which claimed that it razed an entire village with white-hot beams from its maw.
In ancient literature, there is a record of a Gyarados that razed a village when violence flared. Mega Evolution : It jets water from the orifices on its sides, streaking above the water surface at supersonic speed.
James's Magikarp , which he bought from a dealer, evolves into a Gyarados, which called forth four wild Gyarados to use Dragon Rage and send Ash and co flying.
A Red Gyarados is found in the Lake of Rage , north of Mahogany Town , in Johto . It is owned by the Elite Four , Lance . Lance once use the Red Gyarados to save Brock , May and Max from drowning while he is disguising as a Team Magma grunt. Lance's cousin, Clair the Gym Leader of Blackthorn City also owns a Gyarados and it was used to protect Dratini and its battle against Jessie's Arbok and later teaming up with Dratini who is now evolved into a Dragonair to knock James's Weezing twice using both Hydro Pump and its Hyper Beam and blasts Team Rocket away from Dragonair's Twister . She later uses this in their Gym rematch against Ash as her second Pokémon but lost to his Pikachu.
Misty owns a Gyarados as well which has the same ill-tempered behavior as James's Gyarados but this subsides when it defeats the three brothers' Tentacruel after it attacked Misty to protect Corsola and Gyarados itself while underwater. In Hoenn, she uses this against Colonel Hansen when Togepi who is now evolved into a Togetic uses its Safeguard to block Shedinja's Solar Beam and it quickly defeats his Pokémon with its powerful Flamethrower which proves to be super effective. It later fights alongside other Pokémon to battle all of the Mirage Pokémon created by Dr. Yung in the movie Master of Mirage Pokémon . In the Sun & Moon series, her Gyarados mega evolved into Mega Gyarados via Key Stone and it was after Lysandre's Red Gyarados from the XY series. Therefore, it was defeated by Ash's Pikachu from getting massive damage using its Z-Move, Gigavolt Havoc.
In the XY series and like Lance, Lysandre also owns a Red Gyarados but it can mega evolve into a Mega Gyarados via Key Stone- which it managed to wipe out all of Ash's Pokémon except Pikachu and Ash's Greninja in its Ash-Greninja form during the Team Flare's crisis. However, Lysandre's Gyarados was ultimately defeated by the combined efforts of Ash's Pikachu, Ash's Greninja in its Ash-Greninja form and Alain's Charizard in its mega evolved form as Mega Charizard X.
Gyarados appears to based off a sea dragon or a sea serpent from China . Gyarados, being evolved from Magikarp, which is a relatively useless and weak Pokémon, is a reference to a common belief in Asian countries that a carp will transform into a dragon (despite Gyarados not being Dragon type) after it jumps over a tall waterfall. Within East Asian mythology, river and small water body dwelling dragons are said to be vicious and predatory compared to dragons that live within lakes and the ocean.
Gyrados's face and aggressive temperament as a water creature appears to draw upon the early depiction of Zoras as enemies from the early installments of The Legend of Zelda series.
Gyarados may derive from gyre , 虐殺 gyakusatsu (massacre/slaughter) or 逆境 gyakkyō (hardship/adversity)—both words relate to the creature's violent nature and the hardship it experienced before evolving. In addition, 逆 gyaku means "reverse" or "contrary", possibly referring to how Gyarados evolves from a weak Pokémon to one capable of destroying entire cities, and, in legend, how the carp goes against the flow of the waterfall in order to reach the top. It may also involve 嵐 arashi (storm) or 争い arasoi (conflict, referencing on how it appeared during wars). The last part may be from 脅す odosu (to threaten) or どす dosu (dagger), again owing to Gyarados' violent nature. It may also come from dos , Spanish for "two," as it's the second member of its evolutionary line.
Lapras resembles a plesiosaur. Its skin is mainly a light blue with a cream/white underside. It has a very long neck with a rounded head. Its ears are shaped like spirals and it has a small horn on its forehead. Having no legs, it instead has four flippers for easy mobility in the water. Lapras also has a large, gray shell on its backs with "knobs" covering them.
When it Gigantamaxes, it becomes much larger and its shell resembles a cruise ship. Its eyes now have a yellow, blue, and white color scheme. A ring of an icy music score surrounds it.
Lapras is a gentle, helpful Pokémon that enjoys ferrying people across bodies of water. In the past, its docility made it an easy target for hunters, and it was driven to near-extinction. Recent protection efforts have seen Lapras become overabundant instead, which is now affecting the fish Pokémon numbers in some areas. An intelligent Pokémon, it is able to understand human speech. Lapras have been known to travel in large pods across the seas, spanning both polar and tropical areas. To keep in touch with other of its kind, it sings enchanting melodies. In the anime it was shown that Lapras is able to develop psychic abilities such as telepathy .
Also in " Lapras's Feelings For Its Friends ", that intelligence is exemplified by Lucius ' Lapras, it was able to work and group together with other Pokémon that aren't it's own kind and cook up a scheme to steal food from ships.
They live out in the ocean near polar and tropical areas.
Lapras can have the ability Water Absorb or the ability Shell Armor . With Water Absorb, Lapras can heal 1/4 of its max HP if it is hit with a Water -type attack. With the ability Shell Armor, Lapras can block any Critical Hits . Its hidden ability hydration will heal all its Status conditions in Rain .
In addition to this, Lapras can ferry people on its back and also sing people to sleep. Some Lapras can use Telepathy to communicate with humans as well.
Its Gigantamax form is said to be able to ferry 5000 people at one go and the music score can smash through icebergs, like Walrein using its Headbutts .
Lapras does not evolve , but can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Lapras .
Lapras is based on a sea turtle , a plesiosaur (likely the Loch Ness Monster ), and a Viking ship . Its behavior resembles that of cetaceans.
Gigantamax Lapras is based on a ocean liner , likely either the Titanic , which famously sank after hitting an iceberg , or the Queen Mary , as both were British in origin.
Its English name, Lapras, may be a corruption of its Japanese name in reference to La Place (French for seat). This refers to how Lapras is commonly used as a form of transportation.
Its Japanese name, Laplace, may come from Pierre-Simon Laplace , a mathematician who wrote several books on the mathematical properties of the ocean and tides, or lapis lazuli , a blue gemstone.
Ditto's appearance is very plain. It is a simple, pinkish-purple, amorphous blob, with two small dots as eyes and a long, curved mouth.
Shiny Ditto have a light-blueish appearance.
Ditto will transform into anything it sees, even inanimate objects. When it sees an enemy, it will change its DNA code to match theirs. It avoids being attacked while sleeping by changing its appearance to look like a rock. While trying to transform into something from memory, it will get details wrong. This leads to a Pokémon that may have deformed characteristics. They will try to befriend other Pokémon by transforming into one of their kind. However, they are hostile to each other.
Ditto is capable of transforming itself into anything perfectly. However, it only knows one move, Transform , and when battling, it will transform into the opponent's Pokémon. In the anime and the movies, it has been shown that it will keep its face if it transforms into a human, and when it transforms into a large Pokémon, it will be smaller. Its transformation will fail if it is made to laugh. Some Ditto are better at transforming than others. They are hermaphroditic and can breed with any breedable Pokémon.
Ditto does not evolve .
Capable of copying an enemy's genetic code to instantly transform itself into a duplicate of the enemy.
When it spots an enemy, its body transforms into an almost perfect copy of its opponent.
It can transform into anything. When it sleeps, it changes into a stone to avoid being attacked.
Its transformation ability is perfect. However, if it is made to laugh, it can't maintain its disguise.
When it encounters another Ditto, it will move faster than normal to duplicate that opponent exactly.
Ditto rearranges its cell structure to transform itself into other shapes. However, if it tries to transform itself into something by relying on its memory, this Pokémon manages to get details wrong.
It can freely recombine its own cellular structure to transform into other life-forms.
Capable of copying an opponent's genetic code to instantly transform itself into a duplicate of the enemy.
A Ditto rearranges its cell structure to transform itself. However, if it tries to change based on its memory, it will get details wrong.
It has the ability to reconstitute its entire cellular structure to transform into whatever it sees.
It can reorganize its cells to make itself into a duplicate of anything it sees. The quality of the duplicate depends on the individual.
With its astonishing capacity for metamorphosis, it can get along with anything. It does not get along well with its fellow Ditto.
While it can transform into anything, each Ditto apparently has its own strengths and weaknesses when it comes to transformations.
It transforms into whatever it sees. If the thing it’s transforming into isn’t right in front of it, Ditto relies on its memory—so sometimes it fails.
When it spots an enemy, its body transfigures into an almost-perfect copy of its opponent.
It can reconstitute its entire cellular structure to change into what it sees, but it returns to normal when it relaxes.
Its transformation ability is perfect. However, if made to laugh, it can’t maintain its disguise.
Ditto's first appearance was in Ditto's Mysterious Mansion , wherein a Trainer named Duplica owned one.
Howard Clifford 's Ditto is the true secondary main antagonist of Pokémon: Detective Pikachu . It is genetically modified to be able to evolve beyond Pokémon, such as humans, but it was forced to wear sunglasses to hide its bidding eyes when disguising as a human. Its first main disguise as a human was Ms. Norman , and it even impersonated Howard's own son, Roger Clifford , and the intern reporter Lucy Stevens.
In an interview, it was stated that Ditto was based on a smiley emoticon . It shares traits with unicellular organisms , specifically an amoeba , a type of cell with no definite shape, and is capable of altering its cells similarly to how Ditto alters itself to take on different appearances.
Ditto is a term usually meaning "copy", referencing Ditto's habit of transforming into other Pokémon.
Concept art of Eevee
Eevee is a small quadrupedal, mammalian creature with fluffy brown fur, that bears feliform and lagomorph traits. Its muzzle is very cat-like, with a small, black and triangular nose. It has a fluffy, cream-colored ruff around its neck similarly to a lion, and a short, brown, bushy tail with a cream-colored tip. Eevee has round, brown eyes, long rabbit-like ears, and pink paw pads on its feet. Its paws are small with three toes and no visible claws.
Eevee as a Shiny
A Shiny Eevee has silver fur instead of brown, and its ruff and tail-tip are white instead of cream. Its eyes are also gray instead of brown.
Eevee is said to have an irregularly-shaped genetic structure, enabling it to evolve into multiple different forms, which depends if it touches a stone or its relationship to their Trainer.
As Gigantamax Eevee, its body becomes larger. Its ruff grows longer and fluffier with several triangular furs pointing straight up. The right ear has three red clouds surrounding it in a circle. As the fur becomes fluffier and more luxurious, any enemies caught in it will lose the will to fight due to being enamored by its presence. Eevee's behavior also appears to be more playful and rambunctious when Gigantamaxing, desiring to play with its opponent and often unintentionally crushing them with its size.
The Partner Eevee has a lighter shade of brown of its fur, and has unique purple eyes, appearing similar to the Pokémon seen in modern episodes of Pokémon the Series .
The female Partner Eevee
Eevee did not had a gender difference until Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! ; A male Partner Eevee has a zigzag pattern at the tip of its tail (which was once for universal genders ). A female Eevee has a rounded, heart-shaped pattern at the tip of its tail. This was likely meant to correspond with Pikachu 's gender differences.
Since Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , however, these gender differences apply to all Eevee.
In " Helping the Hometown Hero! " from the anime, Eevee sometimes greet each other by sniffing the other's tail as done with Sandy and Chloe 's Eevee. In most cases within the franchise, it is known as a happy and docile creature.
As its evolutions are all stated to be solitary predatory creatures according to various Pokédex entries, it's likely Eevee is also carnivorous and hunts prey in stealth, similarly to cats or foxes. Although Eevee does not have visible fangs like most of its evolved counterparts, in the Pokémon Adventures manga, they are occasionally depicted.
Habitat in Paldea in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet
Eevee is a Pokémon found mainly in cities, although it is likely that they live virtually anywhere in the Pokémon World because they evolve into many different forms to suit their surroundings. It can mostly be found in most known regions. However, as with other first partner Pokémon, Eevee is normally extremely rare, as most games only have one specimen available to the player until Generation IV , with some being absent altogether.
Eevee are Pokémon with unstable genetic codes. This gives them the ability to evolve into eight different evolved forms triggered by the environment, time of day, friendship levels, or the usage of the evolutionary stones Water Stone , Thunderstone , Fire Stone , Leaf Stone ( Generation VIII ), and Ice Stone (Generation VIII).
Partner Eevee is also capable to learning special moves: Bouncy Bubble , Buzzy Buzz , Sizzly Slide , Glitzy Glow , Baddy Bad , Sappy Seed , Freezy Frost , Sparkly Swirl , and the Partner Power, Veevee Volley .
Eevee is one of the few Pokémon in Sun and Moon which have a special Z-Move dedicated to them.
The Z-Move Extreme Evoboost is Eevee's signature move . The move is activated by the Z-Crystal , Eevium Z. Its base is Last Resort . Extreme Evoboost can be learned only by an Eevee with Last Resort, and becomes unusable if Last Resort is forgotten or if the Eevee evolves into one of its evolution.
Eevee is one of the few Pokémon in Sword and Shield that can Gigantamax by having a special member from its species.
Gigantamax Eevee is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max move , G-Max Cuddle .
The various evolutions of Eevee
Eevee has eight different evolved forms , more than any other Pokémon has. They are often called " Eeveelutions " by fans. Each of Eevee's evolved forms is of a different type . These forms include:
In Pokémon Adventures , Red was in possession of an Eevee which had been experimented on by Team Rocket . As a result, it could transform back and forth from the three evolutions: Vaporeon, Jolteon, and Flareon along with its base form, allowing it greater tactical ability in fighting other Pokémon. Eventually, it evolved into an Espeon, losing its special ability to interchange abilities.
In The Electric Tale of Pikachu , the character Mikey (who appeared in the Pokémon the Series episode, " The Battling Eevee Brothers ") made an appearance with his own Eevee and within the chapter that he appeared in, Mikey attempted to prove to his brothers that he didn't need to evolve his Eevee to win battles.
An official Eevee plush
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak and the creator of the Pokémon, Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he once had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Despite its resemblance to certain real-world animals such as foxes or rabbits, it wasn't actually based on any distinct animal, with Fujiwara mentioning that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. [2]
Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their specific type , effectively making Eevee itself the "blank state". [2]
Eevee's name likely comes from the letters E-V, an abbreviation for the word "evolution". Its Japanese name, イーブイ( Eievui ), literally means "evolve". Eevee's original name, Eon, is simply the word eon (a long period of time).
Eevee with all eight of its evolved forms alongside Pikachu in the anime short Eevee & Friends
Due to Eevee's cute appearance and itself having many unique evolutions (commonly known as Eeveelutions ) unlike any other Pokémon which adds considerable replayability in the main games, it is widely seen among the Pokémon franchise 's community as a significant fan-favorite - rivaling if not surpassing that of Pikachu , the series' mascot. Although it technically has been popular since the original Generation I games where it debuted but was not initially promoted as heavily as certain other Pokémon, the Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! title of Generation VII as well as the anime special " Eevee & Friends " had greatly increased its prominence among official media and is now one of the most iconic. Each of Eevee's own evolved forms are also well-beloved in their own right. Many have believed that this Pokémon should have been the franchise's overall mascot rather than Pikachu due to its adaptability in the games' lore reflecting the real-world conception of evolution and has been cited as a realistic interpretation of the phenomenon. Eevee is, however, currently serving as the series' secondary mascot.
Eevee was ranked 20th place in the 2020 Pokémon of the Year poll, falling just behind Pikachu at 19th. Ironically, two of its evolved forms, Umbreon and Sylveon , were voted 5th and 6th, respectively.
The official certification of Eevee Day in 2018
Since 2018, Eevee has an annual official day by The Pokémon Company where it and the Eeveelutions become nationally celebrated, known as Eevee Day. It takes place on November 21st (11/21), which its pronunciation in Goroawase (1121) is similar to Eevee's Japanese name " Eievui " and has been certified by the Japan Anniversary Association. A similar event in 2025 known as Year of Eevee occurred, where Eevee-themed limited edition merchandise are available. Despite this, fans have created unofficial dates for Eevee's separate evolved forms and even the evolution group itself on social media, leading to common misinformation. This problem is due to a wide misconception within the Pokémon fandom often claiming the day being solely for Eevee itself, as well as Pokémon GO being known to have hosted different community days for it and its evolutions.
Partner Eevee as seen in Pokémon Let's Go, Eevee! , featuring unique violet eyes and a heart-tipped tail
Concept artwork of Vaporeon
Vaporeon shares physical traits with aquatic animals and felids in appearance. Its overall body shape has small cat-like features, such as little paws and feet, a round head, a blunt, short muzzle, and a small triangular nose. Most of its body is light-blue, with a white, finned ruff around its neck; it has cream-yellowish ear-like fins on both sides of its head, along with a third fin-like appendage on the top of its forehead. It has dark blue ridges that run down the length of its head, spine, and along its tail-fin. Its long tail resembles that of a dolphin, whale, or mermaid.
A Shiny Vaporeon is mostly light purple in color while its ridges are a darker shade of purple. Its ear-like fins and ruff remain the same.
Vaporeon's molecular structure is close to water, and its body glitters when sunlight hits at certain angles because of this nature. It has a slender, feline body shape all around, further adapting the Pokémon to aquatic regions so it could swim faster. Vaporeon is the result of an Eevee 's exposure to the radiation of a Water Stone .
Vaporeon prefer clean freshwater lakes. They have developed gills to become better suited to an aquatic lifestyle, and their cell composition's similarity to water allows them to melt into the water , which they use the ability to hunt and sneak up on its prey. They themselves also love to swim. It is also known as a calm, but docile Pokémon. As with every other Eeveelution , they're highly rare in the wild and are usually seen in urban areas under the ownership of Trainers.
Vaporeon are highly adapted to aquatic life and are excellent swimmers. Unlike their pre-evolution (or its counterparts), they have the ability to breathe underwater. Vaporeon have the power to melt into water and disappear, and are shown to be able to manipulate water molecules. They can detect moisture and water with their light-blue fins. If their fins jitter around, this indicates rain is coming.
Vaporeon evolves from Eevee if it touches a Water Stone and is one of its eight possible evolutions .
Lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin which is often mistaken for a mermaid's.
Its cell structure is similar to water molecules. It will melt away and become invisible in water.
When Vaporeon's fins begin to vibrate, it is a sign that rain will come within a few hours.
It prefers beautiful shores. With cells similar to water molecules, it could melt in water.
When the stars twinkle at night, it floats up from the sea floor, and its body's center core flickers.
Vaporeon underwent a spontaneous mutation and grew fins and gills that allow it to live underwater. This Pokémon has the ability to freely control water.
Its body's cellular structure is similar to the molecular composition of water. It can melt invisibly in water.
Vaporeon underwent a spontaneous mutation and grew fins and gills that allow them to live underwater. They have the ability to freely control water.
It has evolved to be suitable for an aquatic life. It can invisibly melt away into water.
Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can melt away into water.
Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can't be seen when it melts away into water.
Its cells are composed of units much like water molecules. It lives close to water and is often mistaken for a mermaid.
Blending in with the water and erasing all signs of its presence, it patiently waits for its prey, fish Pokémon.
Clean, clear waters are its usual habitat. When it’s about to be attacked by an invading enemy, it dives into the water to hide.
It detects nearby moisture with its fin. When its fin begins trembling rapidly, that means rain will fall in a few hours.
Its cell structure is similar to water molecules. It melts into the water and becomes invisible.
It has evolved to be suited for an aquatic life. It can become invisible when it melts away into water.
Tests show that its cells closely resemble water molecules, which perhaps explains its ability to conceal its form while submerged. I believe the origins of mermaid folklore lie with this Pokémon.
It lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin, which is often mistaken for a mermaid’s.
Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Though it wasn't based on any distinct animal, Fujiwara mentioned that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their type. [2]
In addition to being cat-like and generally feliform in general morphology, Vaporeon also has traits of aquatic mammals such as small seals with short muzzles. As it resembles and has been referred to as a mermaid , it is possible that Vaporeon is also based on the Merlion , a mythological creature with the head of a lion and the body of a fish.
It may also be based on a visual pun on "catfish".
Vaporeon's name comes from the words vapor and eon . Also, its Japanese name, "Shawaazu" , literally means "shower".
Jolteon is a quadrupedal, mammalian, feliform Pokémon with lagomorph traits, covered in spiny bright yellow fur. It has long ears, and a short body shape, resembling a hare or jackrabbit. It has deep purple (almost black) almond-shaped eyes, a blunt cat-like muzzle with a small, black triangular nose. It has a spiky white mane encircling its neck. Its legs and paws are slender, with three toes on each and no visible claws; though it is seen in The Electric Tale of Pikachu manga to have extendable and retractable feline claws. Jolteon has a spiny fringe of fur covering its backside, and a small short spike-like tail that is not often visible (but seen in few games such as Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet . Its back legs seem to be powerfully-built, allowing Jolteon to run at high speeds and jump, like a cheetah and a hare, as it resembles both fast animals. In Pokémon TCG art, it is shown to be leaping upward onto a skyscraper, in a similar appearance and manner as a hare/jackrabbit, with its long feet extended. Jolteon is the result of Eevee absorbing the radiation of a Thunder Stone .
A Shiny Jolteon's fur is a bright, neon-shade of chartreuse. The rest of its body is the same colour as its non-Shiny form.
Jolteon are very sensitive and temperamental, which causes them to constantly charge as they quickly change moods. This means novice Pokémon Trainers will find it difficult to tame them, until said Trainers have earned their trust. However, this is not always the case; As seen in the anime, specifically " Eevee & Friends " and Bernice , some Jolteon can be quite friendly or even affectionate like other Eeveelutions.
Jolteon are able to gather negative ions from the atmosphere, using the resulting electricity to create lightning bolts of up to 10,000 volts. Their individual cells also create small electrical charges on their own, which combine with the static electricity caused by their bodies can result in powerful Electric-type attacks. They can also make lightning and cause small thunderstorms.
When threatened or angered, their fur stands on their ends and becomes sharp bristles, and they will fire these electrified needles from their bodies. When they exhale, little sparks form in their mouths due to their internal electricity.
Jolteon evolves from Eevee if it touches a Thunder Stone and is one of its eight possible evolutions .
It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10000-volt lightning bolts.
A sensitive Pokémon that easily becomes sad or angry. Every time its mood changes, it charges power.
It concentrates the weak electric charges emitted by its cells and launches wicked lightning bolts.
Every hair on its body starts to stand sharply on end if it becomes charged with electricity.
The negatively charged ions generated in its fur create a constant sparking noise.
Jolteon's cells generate a low level of electricity. This power is amplified by the static electricity of its fur, enabling the Pokémon to drop thunderbolts. The bristling fur is made of electrically charged needles.
If it is angered or startled, the fur all over its body bristles like sharp needles that pierce foes.
Its cells generate weak power that is amplified by its fur's static electricity to drop thunderbolts. The bristling fur is made of electrically charged needles.
It controls 10,000-volt power and can raise all the fur on its body as if it were sharp needles.
If agitated, it uses electricity to straighten out its fur and launch it in small bunches.
By storing electricity in its body, it can shoot its bristlelike fur like a barrage of missiles.
It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10,000-volt lightning bolts.
They send out electrical charges of about 10,000 volts. Because they are high-strung, it can be difficult to grow close to them.
When its fur stands on end, that's a sign it's about to give off a jolt of electricity. Take care, as sometimes lighting strikes next to it, too.
Its lungs contain an organ that creates electricity. The crackling sound of electricity can be heard when it exhales.
Its fur stands on end, becoming like needles it fires at enemies. Once they’re weakened, it finishes them off with a 10,000 volt shock.
It controls 10,000-volt power. When the fur covering its body stands on end, the fur is hard and sharp, like needles.
Bristles its fur into sharp, needlelike points when enraged. One can hear electricity crackle in its breath when it exhales.
It absorbs negative ions from the atmosphere to spit out 10,000 volts of electricity.
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Though it wasn't based on any distinct animal, Fujiwara mentioned that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their type. [2]
Jolteon shares many traits with hares such as jackrabbits, as well as cats, bearing a feliform body-shape all around. Its feline/feliform features and yellow coloration draw inspiration from cheetahs , while displaying distinct hare-like features as well. It also bears a close resemblance to medium-sized wildcats , namely the serval , which possess the same general shape, yellow color, and long ears. Its short, spike-like tail references its hare traits. The cheetah and hare traits conform to its ability to run at lightning speed, as it displays traits of fast animals. Jolteon may also be loosely based on the Raijū , a legendary creature from Japanese mythology composed of lightning, that is said to take in the form of various animals such as cats and dogs (with the cat-like features of it being relevant to this).
Jolteon's English name comes from "jolt" and "eon", much like Flareon and Vaporeon . Its Japanese name, "Saandazu", literally means "thunder".
Concept artwork of Flareon.
Flareon is a quadrupedal, mammalian, felid Pokémon with some slight lagomorph traits. It has vivid flame-colored red-orange fur covering most of its body. A bushy yellow mane encircles its neck. Similar in appearance to its collar, it has a large, puffy, yellow flame-shaped tail, as well as a tuft of yellow fur atop its head, which is also flame-like in shape. This Pokémon is stocky in physical build, with a round head and short cat-like muzzle. It has wide, black almond-shaped eyes, and a small black triangular nose. Its ears are long and rabbit-like, with flare-shaped tips. It has large, bulky paws with no visible claws. Flareon's body (even when not including the particularly fluffy yellow fur) is generally bulkier than most of the Eeveelutions. Compared to its counterparts, it resembles its pre-evolution, Eevee , the most. Flareon is the result of Eevee absorbing a Fire Stone .
When Shiny , Flareon's red-orange fur is a lighter, yellow-gold shade of color.
Flareon is generally a shy Pokémon, as seen in the anime series, specifically Eevee and Friends . It is very emotionally sensible and when it is nervous, it releases large amounts of heat through its fur. Flareon can also be shy when meeting new Trainers . However, like most other Eeveelutions, it has a warm-hearted personality. Usually, Flareon doesn't like being the center of attention.
Flareon is also an altruistic and loyal Pokémon, as it would give its life just for its Trainer, similar to Espeon and Leafeon . Although Flareon has a warm-hearted and submissive personality, if it gets angry, it tends to be hot-headed and explosive.
Flareon is mostly omnivorous, surviving on a diet of berries and meat.
It has a flame sack in its body, making Flareon able to breathe fire, like other Fire-type Pokémon. Its body temperature can rise up to 1,650'F (898.88'C) before battle. The fire that is expelled from its mouth is even hotter, and can reach 3092'F (1700'C).
Flareon's fluffy yellow mane releases its internal heat so that it does not overheat.
Flareon evolves from Eevee if it touches a Fire Stone and is one of its eight possible evolutions .
When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature could soar to over 1,600 degrees.
It has a flame chamber inside its body. It inhales, then blows out fire that is over 3,000F degrees.
It stores some of the air it inhales in its internal flame pouch, which heats it to over 3,000 degrees.
It fluffs out its fur collar to cool down its body temperature, which can reach 1,650 degrees.
Once it has stored up enough heat, this Pokémon's body temperature can reach up to 1700 degrees.
Flareon's fluffy fur has a functional purpose - it releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. This Pokémon's body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees F.
It has a flame bag inside its body. After inhaling deeply, it blows out flames of nearly 3,100 degrees Fahrenheit.
When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature could soar to over 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit.
Flareon's fluffy fur releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. Its body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees F.
It has a flame sac in its body. Its body temperature tops 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit before battle.
Inhaled air is heated in the flame sac in its body to an intense fire over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
It stores some of the air it inhales in its internal flame pouch, which heats it to over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
It fluffs out its fur collar to cool down its body temperature, which can reach 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit.
Inhaled air is carried to its flame sac, heated, and exhaled as fire that reaches over 3,000 degrees F.
It has a flame bag inside its body. After inhaling deeply, it blows out flames of nearly 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Flareon's fluffy fur has a functional purpose—it releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. This Pokémon's body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit.
When it catches prey or finds berries, it breathes fire on them until they’re well done, and then it gobbles them up.
Its average body temperature is between 1,300 and 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. In its internal flame sac, temperatures reach 3,000 degrees.
If it inhales deeply, that’s a sign it’s about to attack. Prepare to be hit by flames of over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
The flame chamber inside its body ignites when Flareon gets agitated, reaching temperatures of up to 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit.
It has a flame chamber inside its body. It inhales, then breathes out fire that is over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Once it has stored up enough heat, this Pokémon's body temperature can reach up to 1,700 degrees Fahrenheit.
Flames burn within a saclike organ inside this Pokémon. When Flareon inhales, these flames grow in intensity, reaching a mighty 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
Inhaled air is carried to its flame sac, heated, and exhaled as fire that reaches over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
It has a flame sac inside its body. After inhaling deeply, it blows out flames of nearly 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Though it wasn't based on any distinct animal, Fujiwara mentioned that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their type. [2]
Flareon resembles a stocky long-haired felid, such as the Norwegian Forwat Cat or Maine Coon breeds (known for their bulky sizes, long ears, puffy fur ruffs, and fluffy tails). It also shares traits of lions due to its large fluffy mane. Lions are often associated with elements such as fire or the sun. Its design could also draw inspiration from medium-size wildcats , such as a lynx , particularly a Canada lynx , known for its bulky body, long ears, puffy neck ruff, and reddish-orange fur.
In addition to lions, wildcats, and longhaired house-cats, it also has lagomorphic ears, and traits that resemble a lionhead rabbit , a certain particularly stocky breed of rabbit with long, fluffy fur and a fluffy ruff.
Flareon's name originates from the words flare and eon . Flare means to blaze with a sudden burst of flame . Eon means an indefinitely long period of time. Its Japanese name (ブースター) literally means "booster".
Porygon is a virtual Pokémon. It is based on early 3D animation models and created completely out of polygons. It resembles a duck or some type of bird. The various parts of Porygon's body are colored pink, white, and blue. Its eyes are in the shape of hexagons.
Porygon is the first artificial Pokémon, created by the scientists at the Silph Co. company.
Porygon evolves into Porygon2 if traded while holding an Upgrade and then evolves into Porygon-Z if traded while holding a Dubious Disc .
[ Notes 1 ]
Porygon is based on low poly computer graphics . It is also stylized after an origami crane .
Porygon is based off the mathematical term "polygon". The 'r' comes from the transliteration of 'l's in Japanese syllabary; in fact, its katakana spelling is exactly the same as the actual word " polygon ". It may also come from " origami " (the Japanese art of folding paper) or 鳥 tori ("bird").
Omanyte is a nautilus-like Pokémon that died out millions of years ago. Omanyte's sturdy shell protects it from enemy attacks.
It has many tentacles, which it used to crawl along the muddy seafloor. It has two large eyes that just stick out under its curvy shell.
Omanyte has the abilities Swift Swim and Shell Armor . Swift Swim allows Omanyte's speed to increase when in the rain while Shell Armor protects Omanyte against Critical Hits.
Omanyte evolves into Omastar starting at level 40.
Although long extinct, in rare cases, it can be genetically resurrected from fossils.
An ancient Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It swims by cleverly twisting its 10 tentacles about.
Revived from an ancient fossil, this Pokémon uses air stored in its shell to sink and rise in water.
This Pokémon from ancient times is said to have navigated the sea by adeptly twisting its 10 tentacles.
In prehistoric times, it swam on the sea floor, eating plankton. Its fossils are sometimes found.
Omanyte is one of the ancient and long-since-extinct Pokémon that have been regenerated from fossils by people. If attacked by an enemy, it withdraws itself inside its hard shell.
A prehistoric Pokémon that lived in the primordial sea, it swims by twisting its 10 tentacles about.
One of the ancient and long-since-extinct Pokémon that have been regenerated from fossils by humans. If attacked, it withdraws into its hard shell.
A Pokémon that was resurrected from a fossil using modern science. It swam in ancient seas.
Omanyte lived in the seas of antiquity. Its fossils have been found bearing bite marks from Archeops, so apparently Archeops preyed on it.
It was restored from an ancient fossil. Those Helix Fossils are excavated from areas that were once oceans long, long ago.
An ancient Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It swam by cleverly twisting its 10 tentacles about.
Because some Omanyte manage to escape after being restored or are released into the wild by people, this species is becoming a problem.
This Pokémon is a member of an ancient, extinct species. Omanyte paddles through water with its 10 tentacles, looking like it's just drifting along.
Omanyte appears to be based on the ammonite , a type of extinct cephalopod .
Omanyte and Omunaito come from 鸚鵡貝 (ōmugai, nautilus) and "ammonite".
Omastar looks a lot like an ammonite, a prehistoric cephalopod. Omastar has a spiked spiral shell, which is heavy enough that it is hard for Omastar to swim. It has eight blue tentacles all over its body. Omastar also has a mouth that has two pairs of mandibles. It has yellow eyes with a slight black split pupil. Its face resembles that of a seastar, except for that the top of the star is cut off by the spiral shell.
Omastar can regulate the pressure within their shells to sink and rise to varying depths. However, they generally only use this to travel from shallow reefs to deep sea floors, and vice versa; they conserve energy by walking rather than swimming when hunting. Unlike their pre-evolutions, however, Omastar are hunters, capturing prey such as the prehistoric ancestors of modern-day Shellder . Once they latch onto their prey with their tentacles, they will never let go unless their arms are severed off. They can regenerate their tentacles over the course of a few weeks. Omastar crack open shells using ​their beak-like mouths, sucking out the innards of their prey. Omastar can also launch the spikes on their shells at foes. However, it can take weeks for these spikes to grow back, leaving vulnerable holes in the meantime. It is believed that cooling oceans were the reason that Omastar became extinct. Their prey began moving to warmer equatorial waters, but their own heavy shells prevented them from keeping up with their food supply.
Omastar evolves from Omanyte starting at level 40.
A prehistoric Pokémon that died out when its heavy shell made it impossible to catch prey.
Sharp beaks ring its mouth. Its shell was too big for it to move freely, so it became extinct.
Apparently, it cracked Shellder 's shell with its sharp fangs and sucked out the insides.
Once wrapped around its prey, it never lets go. It eats the prey by tearing at it with sharp fangs.
Its heavy shell allowed it to reach only nearby food. This could be the reason it became extinct.
Omastar uses its tentacles to capture its prey. It is believed to have become extinct because its shell grew too large and heavy, causing its movements to become too slow and ponderous.
Its tentacles are highly developed as if they are hands and feet. As soon as it ensnares prey, it bites.
Despite having strong fangs and tentacles, it went extinct when its heavy shell made it unable to catch prey.
An Omastar uses its tentacles to capture its prey. It is believed to have become extinct because its shell grew too large, making its movements slow and ponderous.
It is thought that this Pokémon became extinct because its spiral shell grew too large.
Apparently, it cracked Shellder's shell with its sharp fangs and sucked out the insides.
Its heavy shell is thought to be the reason this ancient Pokémon died out. It’s apparently a distant ancestor of Octillery.
It wraps its prey in its tentacles to immobilize them and then finishes them off with its sharp fangs.
Its sharp beak rings its mouth. Its shell was too big for it to move freely, so it became extinct.
Weighed down by a large and heavy shell, Omastar couldn't move very fast. Some say it went extinct because it was unable to catch food.
Omastar's sharp fangs could crush rock, but the Pokémon can attack only the prey that come within reach of its tentacles.
Omastar is based on an ammonite , a prehistoric cephalopod .
Omastar and Omusutā come from 鸚鵡貝 (ōmugai, nautilus), "ammonite", "star", and possibly "oh my stars" (exclamation of surprise) or "I'm a star".
Kabuto is a flat Pokémon that resembles a horseshoe crab, complete with a brown shell. It has two circular dents on its shell and is small, black eyes are visible from the top. Its underside is black with two red spots, which are its secondary eyes. It has four yellow, pointed legs.
While concealed, Kabuto leaves exposed only its hard shell, which protects it from predators, while the small, black eyes on its back allow it to continue monitoring its surroundings.
If it is flipped upside-down, it becomes helpless and defenseless as it is unable to flip over on its own.
Kabuto evolves into Kabutops starting at level 40.
A Pokémon that was resurrected from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor eons ago.
A Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It uses the eyes on its back while hiding on the sea floor.
On rare occasions, some have been found as fossils which they became while hiding on the ocean floor.
This Pokémon lived in ancient times. On rare occasions, it has been discovered as a living fossil.
Three hundred million years ago, it hid on the sea floor. It also has eyes on its back that glow.
Kabuto is a Pokémon that has been regenerated from a fossil. However, in extremely rare cases, living examples have been discovered. The Pokémon has not changed at all for 300 million years.
This Pokémon was regenerated from the fossil of an ancient creature. It protects itself with a hard shell.
A Pokémon that was regenerated from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor long ago.
It is a Pokémon that has been regenerated from a fossil. However, in rare cases, living examples have been discovered. Kabuto have not changed for 300 million years.
It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a stiff shell.
This Pokémon thrived 300 million years ago. It’s said that living specimens can still be seen in a certain region—a rare sight.
This Pokémon became extinct everywhere, except in a few areas. It protects itself with its hard shell.
A Pokémon that was recovered from a fossil. It used the eyes on its back while hiding on the seafloor.
This species is almost entirely extinct. Kabuto molt every three days, making their shells harder and harder.
While some say this species has gone extinct, Kabuto sightings are apparently fairly common in some places.
It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a sturdy shell.
Kabuto is based on a trilobite with elements of the still-living, but ancient, horseshoe crabs .
Kabuto's name comes from 兜蟹 (kabutogani, horseshoe crab (literally meaning "helmet crab")).
Kabutops is a large, bipedal Pokémon. There are six hard spikes going down from the back of its neck, three on each side that lead down towards the beginning of its tail. Two long, sharp claws (or sickles) extend from Kabutops's exoskeleton and several plates close the opening that used to be there. Its head is covered in a rock-hard, semicircular-shaped armor. A tail protrudes from its back, bearing the same color as approximately seventy-five percent of its body.
Kabutops was a predator that hunted in the water. They slash prey with their sharp, sickle-like arms and drain their body fluids. Their discarded husks become food for scavengers. Kabutops can also leave the water and walk on land for extended periods of time, up to 12 hours in humid environments. This allowed them to thrive as apex predators for a long time, as they could hunt both aquatic and terrestrial prey. However, their lungs are still not developed enough to allow them to stray far away from the water.
Kabutops adapted the ability to walk on land. Upon evolution, Kabuto's four insect-like legs have vanished and two long feet stand in their place.
Kabutops evolves from Kabuto starting at level 40.
Its sleek shape is perfect for swimming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains the body fluids.
A slim and fast swimmer. It slices its prey with its sharp sickles and drinks the body fluids.
In the water, it tucks in its limbs to become more compact, then it wiggles its shell to swim fast.
With sharp claws, this ferocious, ancient Pokémon rips apart prey and sucks their body fluids.
It was able to swim quickly through the water by compactly folding up its razor-sharp sickles.
It swims freely through water. It catches prey with its scythe-like arms and drains the victim's fluids.
Its sleek shape is perfect for swimming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains their fluids.
Kabutops once swam underwater to hunt for prey. It was apparently evolving from being a water dweller to living on land as evident from changes in its gills and legs.
It is thought that this Pokémon came onto land because its prey adapted to life on land.
Kabutops swam underwater to hunt for its prey in ancient times. The Pokémon was apparently evolving from being a water dweller to living on land as evident from the beginnings of change in its gills and legs.
Its body had begun to change so it could function on land. But it didn’t adapt in time and went extinct.
It swims at speeds of roughly 29 knots, quickly closing in on its prey and slashing into them with its scythes to finish them off.
A slim and fast swimmer. It sliced its prey with its sharp sickles and drank the body fluids.
Kabutops slices its prey apart and sucks out the fluids. The discarded body parts become food for other Pokémon.
The cause behind the extinction of this species is unknown. Kabutops were aggressive Pokémon that inhabited warm seas.
There is a suggestion in an episode from the first season of Pokémon , Attack of the Prehistoric Pokémon , that Kabutops are very territorial, and have short tempers. This is supported by how Ash was attacked by one. Of course this is, however, just a suggestion, as the others were upset by Ash "dropping in" as well.
Kabutops has made several appearances in episodes, and even in the special The Mastermind of Mirage Pokémon as well as Pokémon Heroes The Movie as a prehistoric Pokémon revived from fossils, attacking Altomare with Aerodactyl .
Kabutops is based on the Cheirurus genus of trilobites . It may also be based on horseshoe crabs , tadpole shrimp , and possibly praying mantises .
Kabutops and Kabutopusu may be based on kabuto (Japanese for helmet), kabutogani (Japanese for horseshoe crab) and Triops (the genus name for a type of tadpole shrimp). Tops in dinosaur names also relates to the facial area.
Concept artwork of Aerodactyl.
Aerodactyl is a pterosaur-like Pokémon. It has an arrowhead-shaped point at the tip of its tail, a cone-shaped spike on its back, purplish gray skin, and a lower jaw full of sharp teeth.
When it Mega Evolves, it gains black stone spike-like protrusions on it body; five on each wing, five on its head, one one its back, and three on its tail. It also has smoother black protrusions; one on its forehead and three on its chest.
Aerodactyl has a vicious temperament and flies without fear through the sky. It is said that Aerodactyl ruled the skies in its ancient world. When incensed, it can use its extremely sharp and serrated saw blade-like teeth to attack. When Aerodactyl hunt, they aim for the throats of prey. They attack from above, tearing out the necks of victims with their teeth. Some research has shown that they may be loosely linked to modern-day Dragon-types. Though superb fliers, they were actually quite slow and clumsy on land. Surprisingly, Aerodactyl are omnivores, eating various fruits and Berries in addition to meat. They seem to especially enjoy Pamtre Berries, perhaps because these Berries are closely related to an ancient fruit they consumed long ago. Aerodactyl also love Aspear Berries, though no studies have linked them to any fruits from when Aerodactyl were alive.
Aerodactyl does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Aerodactyl using its Aerodactylite .
A ferocious, prehistoric Pokémon that goes for the enemy's throat with its serrated saw-like fangs.
A savage Pokémon that died out in ancient times. It was resurrected using DNA taken from amber.
A vicious Pokémon from the distant past, it appears to have flown by spreading its wings and gliding.
This vicious Pokémon is said to have flown in ancient skies while shrieking high-pitched cries.
In prehistoric times, this Pokémon flew freely and fearlessly through the skies.
Aerodactyl is a Pokémon from the age of dinosaurs. It was regenerated from genetic material extracted from amber. It is imagined to have been the king of the skies in ancient times.
It was regenerated from a dinosaur's genetic matter that was found in amber. It flies with high-pitched cries.
A ferocious, prehistoric Pokémon that goes for the enemy's throat with its serrated, sawlike fangs.
Aerodactyl is a Pokémon from the age of dinosaurs. It was regenerated from DNA extracted from amber. It is imagined to have been the king of the skies.
A Pokémon that roamed the skies in the dinosaur era. Its teeth are like saw blades.
A vicious Pokémon from the distant past, it appears to have flown by speading its wings and gliding.
A Pokémon from the age of the dinosaurs. It used its sawlike fangs to shred prey before eating them Mega Evolution : Part of its body has become stone. Some scholars claim that this is Aerodactyl's true appearance.
In ancient times, it ruled the skies. A widely accepted theory is that it went extinct due to a large meteor impact. Mega Evolution : When it Mega Evolves, it becomes more vicious than ever before. Some say that's because its excess of power is causing it pain.
Restored from DNA found in amber, this Pokémon exhibited ferocity that was greater than expected. Some casualties resulted. Mega Evolution : It will attack anything that moves. Mega Evolution is a burden on its body, so it's incredibly irritated.
It flew through the open skies over the ancient continent as if they were its own. When it touched ground, its walk was weak and slow. Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution awakened some dormant genes, bringing back the sharp rocks that once covered Aerodactyl's entire body.
A savage Pokémon that died out in ancient times. It was resurrected using DNA taken from amber. Mega Evolution: The power of Mega Evolution has completely restored its genes. The rocks on its body are harder than diamond.
This is a ferocious Pokémon from ancient times. Apparently even modern technology is incapable of producing a perfectly restored specimen.
Aerodactyl's sawlike fangs can shred skin to tatters—even the skin of Steel-type Pokémon.
Aerodactyl made its anime debut in Attack of the Prehistoric Pokémon where it took Ash Ketchum away. Later a flashback appear in Pokémon Paparazzi , while Todd had taken a photo of this scene on the sly.
A large, fossilized Aerodactyl was resurrected with the power of Soul Dew by Annie and Oakley along with a large Kabutops in Pokémon Heroes , using Hyper Beam to attack Ash and Latias .
Aerodactyl is based on a pterosaur with some features of dragons. Its grayish-purple color, pointed tail, and draconic features may be in reference to Ridley, a recurring boss from the Metroid series who takes the form of a purple pterosaur-like dragon with a spear-like tail. It could also be inspired by Rodan , a pteranodon kaiju from the Godzilla series.
Its English name, Aerodactyl, is a portmanteau of aero- (meaning air) and Pterodactylus (a genus of pterosaurs popularly known as "pterodactyls").
Its Japanese name, Ptera, comes from ptera (Greek for wing) and pterosaur .
Snorlax is a very morbidly obese mammalian Pokémon that has grayish-blue fur and an apricot-color underbelly. Its eyes are always closed, making it look as if it is sleeping, since it usually is. It has two visible lower teeth that stick out of its mouth when closed.
In its Gigantamax form, its belly forms a hill with plants and tree on top of it, causing Snorlax to lie on its back.
Snorlax is known for its relaxed and somewhat-sluggish nature. It will sleep all day until it is hungry, when it will awake and forage for the 400 kilograms (880 pounds) of food it needs, afterwards falling back to sleep again. Because of its eating habits, it can interfere with human farming by destroying crops for food, but it is also believed to release a kind of energy to help new plants grow wherever it ate.
In the wild, it will ignore most people and Pokémon while it is eating or sleeping, but tends to be very affectionate towards its Trainer after being caught. Waking up a sleeping Snorlax, however, will turn these normally docile Pokémon into aggressive attackers whether one is wild or domesticated.
Snorlax evolves from Munchlax if leveled up with high friendship . Snorlax can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Snorlax .
Very lazy. Just eats and sleeps. As its rotund bulk builds, it becomes steadily more slothful.
Will eat anything, even if the food happens to be a little moldy. It never gets an upset stomach.
What sounds like its cry may actually be its snores or the rumblings of its hungry belly.
Its stomach's digestive juices can dissolve any kind of poison. It can even eat things off the ground.
This Pokémon's stomach is so strong, even eating moldy or rotten food will not affect it.
Snorlax's typical day consists of nothing more than eating and sleeping. It is such a docile Pokémon that there are children who use its expansive belly as a place to play.
It is not satisfied unless it eats over 880 pounds of food every day. When it is done eating, it goes promptly to sleep.
Snorlax's typical day consists of nothing more than eating and sleeping. It is such a docile Pokémon that there are children who use its big belly as a place to play.
Its stomach can digest any kind of food, even if it happens to be moldy or rotten.
It stops eating only to sleep. It doesn't feel full unless it eats nearly 900 pounds a day.
When its belly is full, it becomes too lethargic to even lift a finger, so it is safe to bounce on its belly.
Its stomach is said to be incomparably strong. Even Muk's poison is nothing more than a hint of spice on Snorlax's tongue.
It eats nearly 900 pounds of food every day. It starts nodding off while eating-and continues to eat even while it's asleep.
It doesn’t do anything other than eat and sleep. When prompted to make a serious effort, though, it apparently displays awesome power.
It has no interest in anything other than eating. Even if you climb up on its stomach while it’s napping, it doesn’t seem to mind at all.
It is not satisfied unless it eats over 880 pounds of food every day. When it is done eating, it goes promptly to sleep. Gigantamax : Gigantamax energy has affected stray seeds and even pebbles that got stuck to Snorlax, making them grow to a huge size.
This Pokémon's stomach is so strong, even eating moldy or rotten food will not affect it. Gigantamax : Terrifyingly strong, this Pokémon is the size of a mountain and moves about as much as one as well.
This glutton appears in villages without warning and devours the entirety of their rice granaries—such occurrences have long been counted among the gravest of disasters.
This gluttonous Pokémon eats constantly, apart from when it's asleep. It devours nearly 900 pounds of food per day.
Its stomach's digestive juices can dissolve any kind of poison. Eating things off the ground doesn't bother it at all.
Ash's Snorlax appeared in Snack Attack .
Snorlax is a caricature of Game Freak employee Kōji Nishino. [2] Appearance-wise, Snorlax resembles a bear , presumably a black bear or panda bear . Its habit of eating and napping takes inspiration from the act of hibernation , which is commonly associated with bears.
Snorlax comes from the words "snore" and "lax" or "relax".
Kabigon comes from 黴 (kabi, "mold", referencing how Snorlax will basically eat anything), 寐 (bi, "sleep"), and is also based on the nickname of Kōji Nishino, one of the programmers working at Game Freak. Kōji Nishino earned his nickname from his habit of eating moldy food, which some of Snorlax's Pokédex entries reference.
Concept artwork of Kantonian Articuno.
Articuno is a large bird with blue plumage resembling ice crystals. Its coloring is darkest on its head crest and long, streaming tail. Its body is colored sky blue while growing lighter on its front, and its chest is a lighter blue than its body. Its most distinctive trait is its large wings, which are said to be made of ice. Its eyes are a medium shade of red.
Galarian Articuno is a large bird with lavender plumage. Its coloring is darkest on its head crest and long, streaming tail. Its body is colored white, while growing lighter on its front, and its chest is a black. Its most distinctive trait is its large wings with the edges having a border of white on the outer edge (which glow a light blue color any time it uses a move), on its forehead is a crest that consists of three, darker lavender rhombus-shaped feathers. It has circular light blue eyes and black feathers surround both eyes, making it look like as if it wears a domino mask (which glow a light blue color any time it uses a move), a short lavender beak, and long, thin gray legs. Each foot has three forward facing toes and one that faces backward. On its chest is a mass of black downy feathers. Each foot has three forward facing lavender toes and one that faces backward. Its long, streamer-like tail is longer than its body and the same shade of lavender as its crest.
In terms of physical strength, Articuno is the strongest out of the three Legendary Birds; as shown in the anime, Articuno is able to lift one of Team Rocket's mechas with its talons.
Galarian Articuno is a migratory Pokémon that appears in the Crown Tundra every several decades. For a long time, it was thought to be the same Legendary Pokémon as the Articuno previously discovered in other regions. Though cold and callous in personality, it moves in a highly refined manner. Instead of flapping its wings, it keeps itself airborne through constant use of its psychic powers.
When Articuno flaps its wings, the air turns chilly.
Galarian Articuno battles using intense psychic powers that act directly on the cells of living beings. The beams of psychic energy fired from its eyes have a particularly potent effect: the slightest touch of these beams leaves the victim totally immobilized as if they are frozen . Articuno then finishes off the immobilized opponents using the condensed psychic power of its wings.
Articuno dose not evolve .
Articuno first appears in the Anime when a boy named Todd , who loves to take pictures, takes pictures of Articuno in the episode Freeze Frame . Ash Ketchum and co. befriended Articuno after Articuno's Blizzard blew away Team Rocket .
The same Articuno appears again and is a friend of Factory Head Noland in the episode Numero Uno Articuno . Noland became Articuno's friend when he saved the injured Articuno on his plane. Ash attempted to get the Knowledge Symbol by defeating Articuno, which obeyed Noland's command, and he accomplished this by using Charizard .
Articuno appears in the Cave level of Pokémon Snap . Playing the Poké Flute near a pair of slumbering Jynx causes them to chant a spell to hatch an egg containing Articuno. Articuno circles the cavern before flying out above the player. If players threw Pester Balls at a Zubat earlier in the level to free a Pikachu it is holding, Pikachu will be riding on Articuno's back as it exits the cave and they fly off.
Articuno in Super Smash Bros. Melee
In Super Smash Bros. Melee , Articuno is one of the Pokémon that can appear from a Poké Ball . Upon appearing, Articuno releases a continuous wave of ice from its body, and any opponents caught in the blast take moderate damage, become temporarily frozen, and are launched towards the top of the screen. Articuno also has a trophy that is randomly obtainable from the Lottery , but only once every fighter is unlocked. Articuno is one of the Pokémon to appear in the Legendary Pokémon event.
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS , Articuno appears as a trophy, which can be obtained as a random drop.
Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres all appear as part of a single collectible spirit in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate .
Articuno is based on the Simurgh , deriving from the Persian رخ rokh, which is a giant arctic bird. Its long tail and small body also may be a reference to the quetzal . In addition, it is anatomically similar to the white-throated magpie-jay .
Galarian Articuno may be based on the Irish goddess Nemain , with elements of the Tragopan family, bird-of-paradise and quetzals. The feather mask around its eyes resemble the face feathers on an owl , a masquerade ball mask, traditional snow goggles from cultures such as the Inuit , Yupik , and Ainu , and/or the visor worn by the Marvel superhero Cyclops , who, like Galarian Articuno, can also shoot beams from his eyes.
Articuno's name in English, Spanish, Italian, Hindi, and Russian is a cross of the words "arctic" and "uno", the Spanish word for one. The second part of its name indicates that it is the first in the series of Kanto 's Legendary Birds.
Its Japanese name, Furīzā, is a transliteration of the English word "freezer." Its Korean name, Freeser, and its Thai name, Frisoe, are transliterations of its Japanese name.
Its French name, Artikodin, is a portmanteau of "arctic" and "Odin", the Norse god of wisdom. The other two legendary birds' names also derive from gods. Coincidentally, "odin" is also Russian for "one".
Its German name, Arktos, is a portmanteau of "arctic" and "-os," the suffix used for all three legendary birds in German.
Its Chinese name, 急凍鳥 / 急冻鸟, pronounced Jídòngniǎo in Mandarin and Gāpdungníuh in Cantonese, means "rapid-freezing bird".
Concept artwork of Kantonian Zapdos.
Zapdos is an avian Pokémon with predominantly yellow plumage. Black rings encircle its eyes, and it has a long, thin, light orange beak. Its wings and tail are a mass of spiky feathers, with black feathers covering the back of its wings and inner tail feathers. A large crest of spiked feathers surrounds its head. Its thighs are a khaki color, and it has anisodactyl feet ending in talons.
Galarian Zapdos is an avian Pokémon with predominantly orange plumage. It has long legs, strong “zygodactyl” feet (possessing two toes in front and two toes in back), and a large dark bill. Its wings and tail are a mass of spiky feathers, with black feathers covering the back of its wings and inner tail feathers. A large crest of spiked feathers surrounds its head, its thighs are a black color.
When Zapdos flaps its glittering wings, it releases electricity that can potentially cause thunderstorms. It produces massive crackling and snapping sounds when it flies; these are attributed to the lightning bolts it sheds when airborne. When stricken by lightning, it gains power. Zapdos reportedly appears only during thunderstorms, and is said to live among thunderclouds. However, it is rarely seen.
Once every several decades, this migratory Pokémon appears in the Crown Tundra. For a long time, it was thought to be the same Legendary Pokémon as the Zapdos previously discovered in other regions. This belligerent, battle-hungry Pokémon seems unable to resist challenging Pokémon it senses may be stronger than itself.
This Pokémon can control storms and lightning at its own will, which can subsequently change the weather drastically. This causes people to worship it as the God of Thunder.
In battle, this Pokémon overwhelms opponents with speedy movements and ferocious kicks using its naturally mighty legs. When it leaps down cliffs and rocky mountainsides in ultra-high-speed zigzag movements, it is said to resemble a bolt of lightning. However, its wings seem to have atrophied, and it appears to be a poor flier.
Zapdos dose not evolve .
A legendary bird Pokémon that is said to appear from clouds while dropping enormous lightning bolts.
This legendary bird Pokémon is said to appear when the sky turns dark and lightning showers down.
This legendary bird Pokémon cause savage thunderstorms by flapping its glittering wings.
This legendary bird Pokémon is said to appear only when a thundercloud parts into two halves.
Legendary bird Pokémon. They say lightning caused by the flapping of its wings causes summer storms.
Zapdos is a legendary bird Pokémon that has the ability to control electricity. It usually lives in thunderclouds. The Pokémon gains power if it is stricken by lightning bolts.
One of the legendary bird Pokémon. While it is flying, it makes crackling and snapping sounds.
Zapdos is a legendary bird Pokémon that has the ability to control electricity. It usually lives in thunderclouds. It gains power if it is stricken by lightning bolts.
A legendary Pokémon that is said to live inside thunder clouds. It can freely control thunder.
A legendary Pokémon that is said to live in thunderclouds. It freely controls lightning bolts.
Kantonian Form : This Pokémon has complete control over electricity. There are tales of Zapdos nesting in the dark depths of pitch-black thunderclouds. Galarian Form : When its feathers rub together, they produce a crackling sound like the zapping of electricity. That's why this Pokémon is called Zapdos.
Kantonian Form : Zapdos is a legendary bird Pokémon. It's said that when Zapdos rubs its feathers together, lightning will fall immediately after. Galarian Form : One kick from its powerful legs will pulverize a dump truck. Supposedly, this Pokémon runs through the mountains at over 180 mph.
Zapdos first appears in the anime in the episode Island of the Giant Pokémon . Its first major role was in the second movie.
Zapdos was also the driving cause of Ash's Noivern ’s evolution.
A Zapdos appeared in A Crackling Raid Battle! where Ash and Goh battled it in a raid battle.
In Red and Blue Rescue Team and Rescue Team DX, Zapdos is the first legendary to appear in the original Pokémon Mystery Dungeon game, when it kidnaps Shiftry in Silent Chasm , and is fought against on Mt. Thunder . It can be recruited after the credits.
Zapdos may be based on the Native American or South African legend of the thunderbird . The thunderbird was known for being the spirit of thunder, lightning, and rain in the form of a giant bird. The beating of the wings was said to create thunder and was usually depicted in a pose similar to Zapdos' pose in many artworks. It may also have been based on the lightning bird, a bird created from wherever lightning hits the earth. Aesthetically it may also be based on hummingbirds , due to the long beak, the rather simple wings and described violent behavior. It may also be based on Zeus / Jupiter , the Greek/Roman god of lightning, who was symbolized by an eagle.
Galarian Zapdos is based on a roadrunner . Although it's capable of flight, it prefers to spend most of its time on the ground. It could also be based on Macha , an avian Irish goddess associated with war and sovereignty. Alongside Nemain and Badb , it was also represented as a triple goddess named Morrigan . It may also be based on a Chocobo, a fictional ground-dwelling bird species from the Final Fantasy series that is typically yellow.
Physically, Galarian Zapdos resembles a ratite bird, and its design resembles that of a Kiwi .
It is likely that the last part of each birds name are puns, because the last syllable of each of the Legendary Birds is a number in Spanish (ex. Artic uno , Zap dos , Mol tres ). Zapdos would then be the second Legendary Bird of the trio.
Moltres is a large, avian Pokémon with golden plumage similar to that of the Phoenix. It has a long, flowing head crest and a billowing tail, both made of reddish-orange and yellow flames. Additionally, its wings are also shrouded in fiery plumage. It has a long, thin neck, a pointed, brown beak, and small, triangular eyes. Its thin, brown legs have feet that have three forward facing toes and one backward facing toe. It has short talons.
Galarian Moltres is a large, avian Pokémon with red and black plumage. It has a long, flowing head crest and a billowing tail, both made of reddish-pink and yellow flames. Additionally, its wings are also shrouded in fiery plumage. It has a long, thin neck, a short, red beak, and small, blue triangular eyes. Its thin, red legs have feet that have three forward facing toes and one backward facing toe. It has short talons.
Moltres sheds embers with every flap of its wings, creating a brilliant flash of flames. By dipping itself into the magma of an active volcano, this Pokémon can heal itself. It migrates to the south with the coming of spring and is said to bring an early springtime to cold lands. However, it is rarely seen in normal occasions.
Once every several decades, this migratory Pokémon appears in the Crown Tundra. For a long time, it was thought to be the same Legendary Pokémon as the Moltres previously discovered in other regions. It has a haughty personality and conducts itself calmly, according to its own whims. It exudes the energy churning within its body as an aura akin to a column of raging fire, leaving ordinary Pokémon unable to even approach it. It is especially skilled at attacking opponents' minds by spreading its wings wide and unleashing a wicked aura. Opponents hit by such attacks are overcome with deep fatigue, as if all their energy has been burned away.
It can control fire at its own will.
It can spread its wicked powers to surround its territory so that enemies won't be able to approach it and cause them to experience excruciating fatigue.
Moltres is usually found near volcanoes or fiery highlands.
Moltres dose not evolve .
Known as the legendary bird of fire. Every flap of its wings creates a giant dazzle of flashing flames.
A legendary bird Pokémon. As it flaps its flaming wings, even the night sky will turn red.
This legendary Pokémon scatters embers with every flap of its wings. It is a thrilling sight to behold.
This legendary bird Pokémon is said to bring early spring to the wintry lands it visits.
Legendary bird Pokémon. It is said to migrate from the south along with the spring.
Moltres is a legendary bird Pokémon that has the ability to control fire. If this Pokémon is injured, it is said to dip its body in the molten magma of a volcano to burn and heal itself.
One of the legendary bird Pokémon. Those who see it are overwhelmed by its orange wing that seem to be on fire.
It is said to be the legendary bird Pokémon of fire. Every flap of its wings creates a dazzling flare of flames.
Moltres is a legendary bird Pokémon that can control fire. If injured, it is said to dip its body in the molten magma of a volcano to burn and heal itself.
One of the legendary bird Pokémon. It is said that spring will soon arrive if Moltres shows itself.
One of the legendary bird Pokémon. It is said that its appearance indicates the coming of spring.
Kantonian Form : It's one of the legendary bird Pokémon. When Moltres flaps its flaming wings, they glimmer with a dazzling red glow. Galarian Form : This Pokémon's sinister, flame-like aura will consume the spirit of any creature it hits. Victims become burned-out shadows of themselves.
Kantonian Form : There are stories of this Pokémon using its radiant, flame-cloaked wings to light up paths for those lost in the mountains. Galarian Form : The sinister aura that blazes like molten fire around this Pokémon is what inspired the name Moltres.
Moltres first appears in the Anime series episode, Island of the Giant Pokémon , but this version is a giant robot.
Moltres and the two other legendary Flying Pokémon are the basis for the second movie . Moltres is one of the Legendary Pokémon that is being captured together with Articuno and Zapdos . When they are all brought together, an extremely dangerous fight breaks out among the three. However, during the duel the Lugia comes out and tries with Ash Ketchum to bring peace between the three.
Moltres may be based on legends of firebirds such as the phoenix , the Slavic firebird, or the Bennu . It may also be based on the Japanese mythical bird known as 朱雀 Suzaku , guardian of the South, which is not a true phoenix. But is usually ascribed an affinity with fire, which is represented by Moltres's magenta covered flames running from the head down through the tail and the flaming wings.
Galarian Moltres is based on darker legends surrounding the phoenix, the Slavic firebird, or the Bennu, in where destruction and chaos typically precedes its purification and rebirth. It may also be based on Badb , a Celtic goddess which used to frequent battlefields, filling soldiers with rage and fury, similar to Galarian Moltres' wrathful nature and ability to fill enemies with fatigue. It is depicted as a crow , and is often represented as being one of the three members of the Morrigan , which is comparable to the legendary birds' connection with Lugia.
Its dark magic-like powers appear to draw minor inspiration from the Eurasian species of birds known as wrynecks or jynxes , whom in British witchcraft were birds known by their unusual ability to twist their heads and elongate their necks while making disorenting high pitched screams in response to threats such as snakes, and in turn were believed to have and were widely sought for their powerful affinities for curses and black magic due to this, and are the originating namesake of the modern day word jinx.
Moltres, its name in English, Spanish, Italian, Hindi, and Russian, is a portmanteau of molten , molt (the process of an animal intentionally casting off parts of its body for a beneficial purpose, such as a bird losing its feathers to grow new ones), and tres , Spanish for "three".
Faiyā, its Japanese name, is a transliteration of the English word "fire". Its Korean name, Faier, and its Thai name, Faiyoe, have the same etymology.
Its French name, Sulfura, is a portmanteau of sulfur (a yellow, flammable element commonly found in volcanoes), sulfureux (sulfurous or infernal), and Ra , the Egyptian god of the sun, who was often depicted as a falcon-headed humanoid. Its fellow legendary birds are also named after gods, though in their case they're named after Norse gods ( Odin and Thor ) rather than Egyptian gods.
Its German name, Lavados, is derived from the word lava , with the "dos" here not referring to the Spanish word for "two" but instead coming from the "-os" suffix all three legendary birds have in German.
Its name in Mandarin Chinese and former name in Cantonese Chinese, 火焰鳥 / 火焰鸟, pronounced Huǒyànniǎo in Mandarin and Fóyihmníuh in Cantonese , means "flame bird".
Its current name in Cantonese, 火鳥, pronounced Fóníuh, means "fire bird".
It has a white, circular, gem-like object on its forehead, and its eyes are light purple. It has two developing wings at the sides of its head, which grow to be enormous as it evolves. It has a white belly, and is light blue the rest of the way. Dratini looks like some sort of snake or sea monster. Dratini are born large, and as they shed their skin, they grow larger. They have a massive amount of energy rapidly increasing inside of their bodies, hence, they have great strength , which grows exponentially as they evolve. The small lumps on their heads, thought to be sources of good luck in some cultures, are actually immature horns.
The Shiny Pokémon version of Dratini has lavender-pink-colored skin on its upper body as opposed to light blue skin.
Dratini dwell at the bottoms of deep lakes, where they are difficult to find. Young Dratini are rather large for newborns, with some having been reported be be as long as 6.5 feet (2 meters). As they age, they grow even larger, shedding their skins periodically (sometimes as often as every day). They are extremely vulnerable after shedding, so they will hide behind powerful waterfalls away from their colonies during these times. Their bodies grow at an astounding rate, so they must shed often. These skins were likely the source of myths regarding mysterious, lake-dwelling, serpentine creatures.
For a long time, people were convinced that the these skins were hoaxes. It was not until scientists compared their DNA to that of actual Dratini was finally accepted that not only were the skins authentic, but that Dratini were real as well; coupled with how a fisherman had a 10-hour struggle with a Dratini to confirm this species' existence. Today, shed Dratini skin are often treated to make luxury leather goods.
When they shed their skins, their bodies give off a light blue aura.
Dratini evolves into Dragonair starting at level 30 and then evolves into Dragonite starting at level 55.
Long considered a mythical Pokémon until recently, when a small colony was found living underwater.
The existence of this mythical Pokémon was only recently confirmed by a fisherman who caught one.
It is born large to start with. It repeatedly sheds its skin as it steadily grows longer.
This Pokémon is full of life energy. It continually sheds its skin and grows steadily larger.
It sheds many layers of skin as it grows larger. During this process, it is protected by a rapid waterfall.
Dratini continually molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels.
Dratini molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels.
Even the young can exceed 6.5 feet in length. It grows larger by repeatedly shedding skin.
A Dratini continually molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels.
It is called the "Mirage Pokémon" because so few have seen it. Its shed skin has been found.
It is called the "mirage Pokémon" because so few has seen it.
It grows by molting repeatedly. Boots made from the tanned cast-off skin are a super luxury item.
After a 10-hour struggle, a fisherman was able to pull one up and confirm its existence.
It’s still weak, so it lurks on the floor of bodies of water, eating whatever food sinks down and living a quiet life.
It sheds its skin—almost on a daily basis—and grows larger. Its skin is soft just after it’s been shed.
Long thought to be a myth, this Pokémon's existence was only recently confirmed by a fisherman who caught one.
Dratini dwells near bodies of rapidly flowing water, such as the plunge pools of waterfalls. As it grows, Dratini will shed its skin many times.
This Pokémon was long considered to be no more than a myth. The small lump on a Dratini’s forehead is actually a horn that’s still coming in.
It is called the Mirage Pokémon because so few have seen it, but its shed skin has been found.
In the anime, Dratini first appeared in the episode " Miniryu no Densetsu ". This episode is set in the Safari Zone , and sees Ash , his friends and the Safari Warden Kaiser protect a Dragonair and its child Dratini. This episode was banned outside of Japan due to Kaiser and Team Rocket threatening several characters with guns.
Dratini seems to be based on a sea snake or sea dragon .
Dratini may come from "dragon", "tiny", and "mini".
Dragonair's appearance are like sea serpents with long, sleek bodies. The upper part of their body is light blue while its underside is white. They have a small, white horn on the forehead and two wing-shaped protuberances on the sides of the head which are often said to be ears, but are in fact wings, as evidenced in the short film preceding Pokémon: The Movie 2000 . They have a blue orb placed at the neck and another two near the tip of the tail. Along with Dratini , its mouth is rarely seen.
The shiny Pokémon version of Dragonair has lavender-pink-colored skin on its upper body as opposed to light blue skin and its pearls are gold.
Dragonair are wary Pokémon. They are quick to respond to perceived threats, and they tend to flee when they sense danger. Dragonair shed their skin periodically, but not as frequently as Dratini. These skins were at first mistaken for huge Dratini, and fetched hefty sums as collectors clamored over them. According to popular legend, seeing a Dragonair flying overhead at the start of a new year is a sign of good health for the rest of the year.
Dragonair live in the bottoms of many lakes, but they usually never come to the surface.
They can store an enormous amount of energy inside their bodies which seems to manifest itself in two distinct fashions. First, even though they lack large wings, Dragonair has been shown flying with and without the wings on the side of the head greatly enlarged.
Dragonair can also discharge energy through the orbs to envelop itself in a gentle aura. This aura, which makes its body shine slightly and gives it a mystical appearance, and is said to enable the Dragonair to control the weather in the immediate area and change it in a matter of minutes.
Dragonair evolves from Dratini starting at level 30 and evolves into Dragonite starting at level 55.
A mystical Pokémon that exudes a gentle aura. Has the ability to change climate conditions.
According to a witness, its body was surrounded by a strange aura that gave it a mystical look.
They say that if it emits an aura from its whole body, the weather will begin to change instantly.
Its crystalline orbs appear to give this Pokémon the power to freely control the weather.
It is called the divine Pokémon. When its entire body brightens slightly, the weather changes.
Dragonair stores an enormous amount of energy inside its body. It is said to alter weather conditions in its vicinity by discharging energy from the crystals on its neck and tail.
It is said to live in seas and lakes. Even though it has no wings, it has been seen flying occasionally.
A mystical Pokémon that exudes a gentle aura. It is said to have the ability to change the weather.
A Dragonair stores an enormous amount of energy inside its body. It is said to alter the weather around it by loosing energy from the crystals on its neck and tail.
If its body takes on an aura, the weather changes instantly. It is said to live in seas and lakes.
It has been thought that its crystalline orbs are imbued with the power to control the weather.
From time immemorial, it has been venerated by agricultural peoples as an entity able to control the weather.
Lakes where Dragonair live are filled with offerings from people, because they believe this Pokémon is able to control the weather.
Some say that if you see it at the start of the year, flying through the sky and twisting its body, you’ll be healthy all year long.
This Pokémon lives in pristine oceans and lakes. It can control the weather, and it uses this power to fly into the sky, riding on the wind.
This Pokémon gathers power in the orbs on its tail and controls the weather. When enshrouded by an aura, Dragonair has a mystical appearance.
Dragonair have been shown three times in the anime, the first of which being (ミニリュウのでんせつ) or " Miniryu no Densetsu ". Though American audiences never got to see this one due to its ban for the use of handguns.
In the theme song for Pokémon: Indigo League, a Dragonair is seen in the water.
In " Beauty in Skin Deep! " and onwards, Clair's Dratini evolves into a Dragonair when Clair saves it from getting a direct hit from Pikachu's Thunderbolt due to Jessie's Wobbuffet countering the move and it becomes her main Pokémon until in the Diamond and Pearl series.
In " Master Class Choices! ", a shiny Dragonair appeared performing with her trainer, Amelia and her friend Espeon in the Master Class Trial.
In " A Test in Paradise! ", Ash made friends with a Dragonair and helped it learn how to fly and learn Dragon Dance . It later evolved into Dragonite and joined Ash's team.
In Pokémon Adventures , Lance used his Dragonair to whip up a storm and ruin the surfing contest. The thing that makes this Dragonair different though is that it has been trained so well it can use its horn to control the weather.
Dragonair may be based on the Imugi , a proto-dragon that resembles snakes and lives in caves and water. Dragonair hosts features of East Asian dragons, from its wings atop its head being evocative of the twin horns, and its pearl at its crest being representative of the divine pearls held in their claws and are said to grant wishes and showcases their closeness to creative powers.
Its name as Hakuryu draws further inspirations to the White Dragons of East Asian mythology, whom are often said to be a sign of great benevolence and fortune. Because of the Dratini line's rarity, its name may further play off of how the Pokémon of the Dratini line are seen only as shining bright entities to most bystanders and eyewitnesses, such as the Dragonite depicted in the anime episode "Mystery at the Lighthouse".
Dragonair is a mixture of the words dragon and air , the latter in this case meaning more towards ambiance and atmosphere something gives off.
Its Japanese name, Hakuryu, literally translates to "white dragon".
Concept artwork of Lance's Dragonite .
Dragonite greatly differ from their sea serpent-like pre-evolved forms. Both Dratini and Dragonair had a blue coloring with no limbs or wings (excluding the wing-like ears of Dragonair). Dragonite are large, orange, bipedal dragons with two turquoise wings on its back. Dragonite largely resembles a Charizard , as both have the same orange coloring, and the same blue underside of their wings, except for its lack of a flame on the end of their tails, and a somewhat rounder, and friendlier appearance.
Shiny Dragonite's main color is green while the inside of its wings are purple.
Dragonite resembles a proper looking European dragon, unlike its pre- evolved forms Dratini and Dragonair , which are more aligned towards Eastern ones.
As shown in Pokémon Horizons , Mega Dragonite can perform attacks from the tip of its tail.
Most Dragonite are incredibly warmhearted as well as selfless and will rescue anyone lost at sea. However, as shown in one episode , they will go on a rampage if their environment is harmed. They tend to battle Kingdra , their sworn rivals, in the wild.
Dragonite are very swift and can circle the globe in just 16 hours.
Dragonite are very rarely found near water bodies. Some claim that there is an island where only they live, which has only been seen only once .
Dragonite evolves from Dragonair starting at level 55 and is the final evolution of Dratini . Dragonite can Mega Evolve into Mega Dragonite using its Dragoninite .
An extremely rarely seen marine Pokémon. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans.
It is said that this Pokémon lives somewhere in the sea and that it flies. However, it is only a rumor.
It is said that this Pokémon constantly flies over the immense seas and rescues drowning people.
This marine Pokémon has an impressive build that lets it freely fly over raging seas without trouble.
It is said that somewhere in the ocean lies an island where these gather. Only they live there.
Dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just sixteen hours. It is a kindhearted Pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land.
It can fly in spite of its big and bulky physique. It circles the globe in just 16 hours.
Very few people ever see this Pokémon. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans.
It can circle the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted Pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land.
It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides crews of shipwrecks to shore.
Dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted Pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land.
This Pokémon saved a shipwrecked man, taking him to a remote island-a paradise occupied solely by Dragonite.
Incur the wrath of this normally calm Pokémon at your peril, because it will smash everything to smithereens before it is satisfied.
It flies over raging seas as if they were nothing. Observing this, a ship’s captain dubbed this Pokémon “the sea incarnate.”
You’ll often hear tales of this kindhearted Pokémon rescuing people or Pokémon that are drowning.
It is said that this Pokémon lives somewhere in the sea and that it flies. However, these are only rumors.
It's a kindhearted Pokémon. If it spots a drowning person or Pokémon, Dragonite simply must help them.
This Pokémon is known as the Sea Incarnate. Figureheads that resemble Dragonite decorate the bows of many ships.
It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides wrecked ships to shore.
It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides wrecked ships to shore. Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution has excessively powered up this Pokémon's feelings of kindness. It finishes off its opponents with mercy in its heart.
Dragonite made its first appearance in the episode Mystery at the Lighthouse , where Bill was searching for it. It appeared during the last moments of the episode and was unusually large, making this Dragonite in particular a Giant Pokémon .
Dragonite have also made appearances in other episodes under the ownership of trainers including Lance and Drake . Lance's cousin, Clair also owns a Dragonite which originally belongs to the very first Gym Leader of Blackthorn City.
In The Mastermind of Mirage Pokémon , Professor Oak used his own Dragonite in battle against the Mirage Master.
Dragonite also made an appearance in Pokémon: The First Movie as Mewtwo's "postman" as it uses Dragonite to send the invitations out.
Iris has captured a Dragonite in Undella Town when one Dragonite caused all the blackout when its been injured during a battle with a Hydreigon, causing everyone to blame it on him when it was framed.
Ash caught a Dragonite in A Test in Paradise! after he bonded with it as a Dragonair and it saved Ash from falling onto Team Rocket's Wailord after evolving from a Dragonite.
Dragonite might be based on draconite , a mythical stone found in dragon heads that is pointy. This could also be shown on top of Dragonite's head as it has a pointy horn on top.
Dragonite may be based off either Japanese, European or Fairy Dragons (though the first Pokémon with the Fairy-Dragon type combo was actually Altaria ’s Mega Evolution). Its pre evolutions’ Chinese origins remain rooted in its lore as a sea guardian. It heavily resembles dragons found in the artworks done by Utagawa Kuniyoshi, one of the last great masters of the Japanese ukiyo-e style woodblock print.
Japanese fans have speculated that the kaiju Daigoro from the 1972 film Daigoro vs. Goliath might have influenced the design of Dragonite based on the fact that Pokémon franchise was actually influenced by the Ultraman franchise where Daigoro vs. Goliath was also produced by Tsuburaya Production. [2]
Mega Dragonite retains the elements of its previous evolution, Dragonair , such as the wing heads and the pearl in its tail, but also invokes angels, more specificialy seraphs, which were described in the Bible as having 6 wings, with the upper wings covering its face, while the bottom wings covers the feet. The wings on its head and under its feet may reference the Greek god Hermes , who his depicted as having wings on his helmet and sandals, with the former heavily used in Japanese pop culture to depict angels, though there more used on succubuses in some depictions.
Dragonite's name might be a combination of "dragon" and "knight". It may also be a pun on Draconite.
Dragonite's Japanese name, Kairyu, literally means "cheerful dragon". Kai may also come from Sea (Since both Cheerful and Sea are represented by the same sound), Kaiju (Monsters like Godzilla, which inspired its pseudo legendary successor Tyranitar ) and Hakai (as it destroys everything when using Outrage ).
Mewtwo is a bipedal, humanoid feline-like Pokémon . Its appearance is loosely based on Mew , with a mutated, significantly more human-like look in addition to its feline traits, due to horrific gene-splicing experiments. Its body is purplish gray and light purple, It has three round digits on each paw, with only two front digits on its feet, and one supporting round heel-like digit at the back. It has horn-like protrusions on its head.
As a Shiny , Mewtwo's purple tail and underside becomes a green color.
Mewtwo projects a faint but powerful purple aura when at full power, though it appears blue in Pokémon the Series .
Armored Mewtwo
Clefairy transformed into Mewthree
Mewtwo has an exclusive form not seen in the main games named 'Armored Mewtwo' in the anime, and 'M2 Bind' in the manga . In the anime series, specifically Mewtwo Strikes Back , the form increases all of Mewtwo's Psychic abilities (despite Mewtwo's claims it suppresses his strength), and in the manga it allows Giovanni to control it. Mewtwo also has another form exclusive to the Pocket Monsters manga, where it takes on the DNA of a Clefairy , becoming a shorter, fatter and much stronger version of itself. Titling itself "Mewthree", it started its quest of cooking the best bacon ever until Satoshi managed to calm it down with his bacon. After going into a tantrum, screaming out " This isn't even my final form! ", Mewthree split back into Clefairy and Mewtwo.
Mega Mewtwo X and Y, as seen as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U
Since Generation VI , Mewtwo has gained two different Mega Evolution forms, known as Mega Mewtwo X and Mega Mewtwo Y, becoming even more powerful than it normally is. The former makes Mewtwo become taller and more muscular while gaining the Fighting-Type . The horns on its head are longer and extend from brow-like ridges on its forehead. Additionally, the horns are now pointed and curves upward. It now has two tubes behind its neck, its eyes are light blue rather than violet, and Mewtwo now has large, purple ridges over its shoulders fusing behind its back as a single, hump-like growth. Its forearms and legs grow much bulkier and gain two protruding ridges resembling veins. Its hands and feet grow bigger, with longer, more prehensile digits. Its tail is slightly shorter and stiffer than before and has a curled tip. Alongside being able to stretch its arms, Mega Mewtwo X's physical strength, thanks to its psychic powers augmented to its limbs, has a grip strength of 1 ton (2000lbs) and can sprint 100 meters in only two seconds flat (approximately over 110 mph). As the latter, Mewtwo's appearance is a closer resemblance to Mew, as it becomes smaller and lighter, losing its long tail, underbelly, and the tube behind its neck. Despite this, it grows a long, purple appendage with a curled tip from the back of its head that is similar to its previous form's tail. On its head, it has two pointed, backward-curving spikes and a half-ring structure connecting to the base of each and crossing over the top of its head. Its eyes are now red and slightly larger. The digits on its hands and feet are now purple and more bulbous and the middle toe is longer than the others. A bumpy ridge similar to a sternum replaces the breastplate structure on its chest, but this form is still largely smoother than the other two. As its mental ability is increased to its peak, Mega Mewtwo Y's psychic powers are so great, just a simple thought can easily destroy a skyscraper to rubble. Unlike its "X" counterpart, this Mega Evolution of Mewtwo always stays afloat in the air and does not gain a second type.
An artificial Pokémon specifically designed for the fiercest battles , Mewtwo is highly adept at utilizing its Psychic powers, displaying powerful telekinesis and telepathy as well. It speaks in a masculine voice in most Pokémon media, and is generally masculine in build (despite being unknown gender in-game). It utilizes its telepathy to communicate with humans and translate the Pokémon language. It uses its telekinesis to skillfully fly and block special abilities like Mew does, and even expunge people's recollections (make others forget things), as optically discerned in Mewtwo Strikes Back and Mewtwo Returns .
As evidence of its tremendous power surpassing even that of Mew's, Mewtwo is by far one of the most domineering Pokémon in the franchise. Aside from being among the most powerful Pokémon in the core series (especially in Generation I where its Special stat is quite high and the Psychic-type in general having few weaknesses), in the anime , its strength is so great to the point that it can endure immense torture in its sequel movie Mewtwo Returns , and teleport a lake miles deep underground. Proven in the first Pokémon film, its official debut in Mewtwo Strikes Back , Mewtwo holds a large degree of pride in its personality. Its general nature is so complex that it borderlines that of human levels with itself, capable of learning and evolving just to get the upper hand in battle. It is shown to at first be furious toward humans due to its early traumatic experiences caused by the evil Team Rocket and scientists and Giovanni creating it as a mere clone and weapon, and not a natural Pokémon born of Mew . Later on, it becomes more underanding and kind, learning that not all humans are evil, and actually secretly protecting them, and its fellow clone Pokémon.
In the core series, it is documented by the Team Rocket scientists that Mewtwo was born of Mew (in a document in a secret abandoned laboratory within Cinnabar Island that reads "Mew gave birth" to it). It however became too violent and uncontrollable, and fled to the treacherous Cerulean Cave , far away from humans, to live in solitude. Although not technically invincible as it can be defeated in combat, Mewtwo proves to be an extremely formidable and powerful Legendary Pokémon with a savage personality in stark contrast to Mew, unwilling to be captured, with a particularly low catch-rate in the games. Despite this, it can be captured and tamed, like any other Pokémon.
Mewtwo is known for having a cold, intense look that would bring fear to even the most seasoned Trainers
In the games, because it is known to have the most savage heart among all Pokémon in polar opposite to Mew (but is not evil) due to its artificial gene manipulation, Mewtwo is often shown as a stoic or fearless Legendary Pokémon and seems to only think of defeating worthy opponents in battle to prove itself as the strongest, always appearing to be angry and rarely smiles. But when tamed by the player character via friendship , it can grow to care for him/her. However, it takes a longer amount of time than most other Pokémon. Unlike in the anime and manga, Mewtwo does not speak in the franchise's main media.
In Pokémon the Series , Mewtwo is highly intelligent - more so than most Pokémon, and even humans. In Pokémon: The First Movie where it serves as the main antagonist, it started out as an extremely arrogant, ruthless, cold and aggressive Pokémon, being asocial, violent, and gruff, disliking humans with a passion due to how it was treated as a clone and weapon by the evil Team Rocket; it tended to smirk in a smug manner when interacting with trainers and their non-cloned Pokémon. Later on, after learning that not all humans are evil, it is shown to be willing to help others. An example of its compassion are events in which it assisted Ash Ketchum and his companions, and saved a bus full of other humans from a catastrophe with its psychic powers. When one of the Pokémon clones it was protecting asked about this and suggested that Mewtwo was growing fond of humans, it quickly dismissed the idea, though it was proven to be in denial of it growing compassionate tendencies. Mewtwo progressively proved to be truly heroic and kind, as seen in Mewtwo Returns and Pokemon Journeys: The Series . In Genesect and the Legend Awakened , a different Mewtwo with a feminine voice notably has a slightly friendlier personality than the original, but still never backs away from a rough battle against a rampaging Genesect - itself another artificial Pokémon.
In Mewtwo Strikes Back , alongside being able to create and organize a seemingly global hurricane , Mewtwo is smart enough to build a rather advanced castle of its own on New Island with a stadium and a fully functional cloning factory producing Mewtwo Balls - custom sinister-looking Poké Balls which can capture Pokémon even if already inside their own legitimate Poké Ball. Because of this, it easily can create infrastructures and live independently if wanted.
Mewtwo does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into either Mega Mewtwo X using its Mewtwonite X or Mega Mewtwo Y using its Mewtwonite Y . Mega Mewtwo X adds an additional Fighting -type to it.
It was created by a scientist after years of horrific gene splicing and DNA engineering experiments.
Its DNA is almost the same as Mew's. However, its size and disposition are vastly different.
Because its battle abilities were raised to the ultimate level, it thinks only of defeating its foes.
It usually remains motionless to conserve energy, so that it may unleash its full power in battle.
Said to rest quietly in an undiscovered cave, this Pokémon was created solely for battling.
Mewtwo is a Pokémon that was created by genetic manipulation. However, even though the scientific power of humans created this Pokémon’s body, they failed to endow Mewtwo with a compassionate heart.
A Pokémon whose genetic code was repeatedly recombined for research. It turned vicious as a result.
It was created by a scientist after years of horrific gene-splicing and DNA-engineering experiments.
A Pokémon that was created by genetic manipulation. However, even though the scientific power of humans made its body, they failed to give it a warm heart.
A Pokémon created by recombining Mew’s genes. It’s said to have the most savage heart among Pokémon.
Its DNA is almost the same as Mew's. However, its size and disposition are vastly different. Mega Evolution X : Psychic power has augmented its muscles. It has a grip strength of one ton and can sprint a hundred meters in two seconds flat! Mega Evolution Y : Despite its diminished size, its mental power has grown phenomenally. With a mere thought, it can smash a skyscraper to smithereens.
Created from the DNA of Mew, this Pokémon is a dangerous combination of overwhelming power and a savage heart.
The research efforts of a certain scientist ultimately resulted in this Pokémon. Its powers are dedicated to battling.
Mewtwo was created by recombining Mew's genes. It's said to have the most savage heart among Pokémon.
It was created by a scientist after years of horrific gene-splicing and DNA-engineering experiments. Mega Evolution X : Psychic power has augmented its muscles. It has a grip strength of one ton and can sprint 100 meters in two seconds flat! Mega Evolution Y : Despite its diminished size, its mental power has grown phenomenally. With a mere thought, it can smash a skyscraper to smithereens.
Pokkén Tournament Mewtwo
Pokkén Tournament features a dark-looking alternately colored Mewtwo named Shadow Mewtwo with the ability to Mega Evolve without a Mega Stone .
Mewtwo's castle in Pokémon: The First Movie has it depicted in the eye of a cyclone
Like Mew, Mewtwo is based on a cat embryo , though anthropomorphic with elements of gray aliens , and a tail and paws slightly similar to salamanders .
Mewtwo and Myūtsū come from the name of the Mythical Pokémon from which it was cloned, " Mew ", and "two", referring to how its DNA is similar to Mew and could be considered its modern predecessor. It may also come from "mutant" given how much it deviated from Mew's original form.
Concept artwork of Mew.
Mew is a small, distinctly cat-like Pokémon with blunt, pointed ears, vivid blue eyes, a rounded embryo-like body-shape, and a long, thin tail with a large bulge at the end. Its arms are small and have three fingers each, while its feet are somewhat long with three toes. Orange paw pads are on the undersides of its feet. It is covered with a layer of fine, pink fur, only visible with the aid of a microscope.
Despite itself being one of the most powerful Pokémon in the world , Mew is very playful and mischievous. It can get along with many different humans and Pokémon and will risk its life for its friends. However, Mew is very shy and will only show itself to those pure of heart. It is also one of the most intelligent, as it is very adapt at battles and solving problems, as seen in the anime series . In the games, Faraway Island is where Mew resides, though this place is exclusively seen in Pokémon Emerald Version when obtaining the Old Sea Map - an event item only distributed to Japan. Here, it plays hide and seek inside tall grass before the player can encounter and capture the Mythical Pokémon.
It is said that Mew's DNA possesses the genetic composition of every existing Pokémon species, thus allowing it to use all known Pokémon moves (and Pokémon's exclusive Z-Moves , excluding Ultra Necrozma's Z-Move). Its possession of every Pokémon's DNA also allows it to de-evolve Pokémon, as shown in the Trading Card Game through its moves "Devolution Beam" and "Devo Crush".
Mew does not evolve .
So rare that it is still said to be a mirage by many experts. Only a few people have seen it worldwide.
When viewed through a microscope, this Pokémon's short, fine, delicate hair can be seen.
Apparently, it appears only to those people who are pure of heart and have a strong desire to see it.
Its DNA is said to contain the genetic codes of all Pokémon, so it can use all kinds of techniques.
Because it can learn any move, some people began research to see if it is the ancestor of all Pokémon.
Mew is said to possess the genetic composition of all Pokémon. It is capable of making itself invisible at will, so it entirely avoids notice even if it approaches people.
A Pokémon of South America that was thought to have been extinct. It is very intelligent and learns any move.
A Mew is said to possess the genes of all Pokémon. It is capable of making itself invisible at will, so it entirely avoids notice even if it approaches people.
Because it can use all kinds of moves, many scientists believe Mew to be the ancestor of Pokémon.
Because it is able to use every move, there are many scientists who believe that it is the ancestor of all Pokémon.
It's very intelligent and can use an incredible variety of moves. Many believe that all other Pokémon are descendants of this one.
This mythical Pokémon is said to be extinct, but sightings of it are still being reported to this day.
Mew in the anime.
The truck near S.S. Anne, as seen in the Generation I games, sparked a major false belief that Mew hides under the vehicle
Mew is based on a cat (more accurately a kitten). It also looks similar to a vertebrate embryo , specifically a feline embryo.
Mew's name seems to be derived from "mutant", as well as possibly a corruption of “new”, considering it is the New Species Pokémon. It may also involve 妙 myō (wonderful, exquisite). It may also be based on the pronunciation of a Greek letter.
According to Julien Bardakoff, the French localizer for Pokémon Red and Blue , he asked if Mew's name was based on the English onomatopoeia for a cat's meow and was explicitly told it was not. [2]
Concept artwork of Chikorita.
Chikorita is a small dinosaur-like Pokémon, particularly resembling a Sauropoda. It is of light green color and its eyes are dull red. Around its neck are tiny buds that have the ability to shoot out into long vines. Its most notable feature's the large leaf on the top of its head. It has four short legs with one toenail on each foot.
Chikorita are docile and friendly, spending a lot of time in the sun to soak up the sun's rays. Because of this, they spend most of their time peacefully sunbathing. Their leaves are highly sensitive to temperature and humidity. They love bright, sunny weather--in fact, one of the only times trainers may their see Chikorita upset is when the Pokémon are prevented from going out on beautiful days.
One loves to be pet on its leaf, unlike the buds on its neck. Thanks to their calm nature, it is no surprise that Chikorita continue to be popular Johtonian starter Pokémon.
Chikorita can use a few more natural abilities. Vines can be shot out of its neck from the tiny buds that circle it, and it can create a large number of leaves from the one large leaf on the top of its head. Chikorita's leaf on top of its head also has calming abilities.
Chikorita evolves into Bayleef starting at level 16 and then evolves into Meganium starting at level 32.
Chikorita first appeared in the Gold and Silver games as one of the three First partner Pokémon at the beginning of the game.
A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up the sun's rays.
Its pleasantly aromatic leaves have the ability to check the humidity and temperature.
It loves to bask in the sunlight. It uses the leaf on its head to seek out warm places.
In battle, Chikorita waves its leaf around to keep the foe at bay. However, a sweet fragrance also wafts from the leaf, becalming the battling Pokémon and creating a cozy, friendly atmosphere all around.
It waves its leaf around to keep foes at bay. However, a sweet fragrance also wafts from the leaf, creating a friendly atmosphere that becalms the battlers.
It uses the leaf on its head to determine the temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe.
Its pleasantly aromatic lead has the ability to check humidity and temperature.
A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up sun rays.
It uses the leaf on its head to determine the air's temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe.
Its pleasantly aromatic leaf has the ability to check the humidity and temperature of the area around it.
Like the rest of its evolutionary family, Chikorita is based on a sauropod . It also resembles a pear with legs. The leaf on its head resembles a ponytail.
Chikorita's name is derived from "chicory", a plant, combined with the feminine Spanish suffix "-ita" for something small or young.
Concept artwork of Cyndaquil.
Cyndaquil is a small quadrupedal Pokémon that resembles an echidna . They are covered with a flame-resistant fur that is dark blue in color on its back to its head and light yellow on its underside. There are also four red spots of fur on the back that flames can be projected from. A shiny Cyndaquil has brown fur on its back instead of dark blue.
Cyndaquil are generally timid and not naturally aggressive, and are often seen curled up into a ball for protection. This action leaves their backs and special flame-emitting vent fur exposed.
Cyndaquil are also seen to have a shrill voice. When predators and enemies stalk too close, Cyndaquil unleash a flame from the vents as a deterrent. If provoked further, Cyndaquil will intensify their flames, creating a smokescreen that they use to confuse their foe, making time to escape. They burn vigorously most of the time, but will sputter and die out sporadically if the Pokémon are tired. They rarely fight back, due to their flighty natures, but may attack with Ember or Swift when cornered.
Trainers must be careful when raising Cyndaquil, as they are easily startled—frightened Cyndaquil will instinctively flare up their backs. Despite this potential problem, they can be very playful and cheerful, if a bit skittish. It is said that trainers who choose Cyndaquil at the beginning of their journeys also tend to be good caretakers of children, especially younger, timid ones.
When a Cyndaquil is frightened or angry, it can focus its internal energy to produce blazing "spines" of flame from the spots on its back. While it is a quadruped, Cyndaquil is more than capable of maneuvering on two legs.
Cyndaquil evolves into Quilava starting at level 14 and then evolves into Typhlosion starting at level 36.
Cyndaquil is one of the three First partner Pokémon given out to new trainers by Professor Elm in Gold, Silver , Crystal , HeartGold and SoulSilver . Cyndaquil is the Fire-type in the tradition of the Grass, Water, and Fire-type starters. In Pokémon Emerald , a Cyndaquil can be received after completing the Hoenn Pokedex
It is timid, and always curls itself up in a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection.
It usually stays hunched over. If it is angry or surprised, it shoots flames out of its back.
The fire that spouts from its back burns hottest when it is angry. The flaring flames intimidate foes.
Cyndaquil protects itself by flaring up the flames on its back. The flames are vigorous if the Pokémon is angry. However, if it is tired, the flames sputter fitfully with incomplete combustion.
It flares flames from its back to protect itself. The fire burns vigorously if the Pokémon is angry. When it is tired, it sputters with incomplete combustion.
It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously.
It is timid and always curls itself up into a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection.
Cyndaquil protects itself by flaring up the flames on its back. The flames are vigorous if the Pokémon is angry. However, if it is tired, the flames splutter fitfully with incomplete combustion.
Hails from the Johto region. Though usually curled into a ball due to its timid disposition, it harbors tremendous firepower.
Cyndaquil has made numerous appearances in the Pokémon anime, mostly as one of Ash 's Pokémon during his journey in Johto . His Cyndaquil often shown as very shy and relaxed, sometimes sleeping. When Ash first caught it, it needed time to warm up and use Flamethrower, but with some training, it became capable of using its Flamethrower whenever it wanted. It also possessed incredible dodging capabilities, able to wear opponents down by simply evading long series of attacks over an extended period of time. Cyndaquil is currently at Professor Oak 's lab since Ash decided to make a fresh start when going to Hoenn , leaving all of his Pokémon, except Pikachu , with Professor Oak. In Pokémon episode 650, Ash called Prof. Oak for all his Pokémon from Oak's Lab (leaving behind only Tauros, Sceptile, and Swellow). When he found all his Pokémon (which was because of an earlier attempt of Team Rocket trying to steal all of Ash's Pokémon causing an explosion to scatter them around the League Dome), Team Rocket tried stealing his Pokémon again. Ash's Cyndaquil was nearly caught by them, but then evolved into a Quilava and thus saved all the Pokémon.
Dawn received her Cyndaquil as an egg after she defeated Lyra's Chikorita with her Piplup. In a special focusing around Dawn, it evolved into Quilava while battling a bunch of Ariados, including their "shiny" leader .
As Ash and Goh came to the Sinnoh region for the Sinnoh fair, as Goh caught the Cyndaquil from the Johto region by using the old fashioned Poké Ball of the Sinnoh region version.
Cyndaquil may be modeled after small rodents like shrews , but it mainly appears similar to echidnas or porcupines , two mammals that don quills on their backs.
Cyndaquil is a combination of cinder and quill .
Totodile is a small Pokémon that appears as a bipedal crocodile. While most of a Totodile's body is turquoise, they have a yellow, V-shaped marking across their chest, red eyes and raspberry spikes that go down its back to its tail. These Pokémon are well known for their large mouths, filled with razor-sharp teeth.
The shiny version of this Pokémon appears as having green or turquoise skin instead of blue and has dark blue spikes, which are normally red, along its back.
Totodile are very energetic, cheerful and rowdy, and occasionally can be seen running through swampy areas, biting and chomping at everything that moves around them. They will snap at the arms and legs of people when they lower their guards to “investigate” the foreign beings. Though they are simply “playing,” these bites can cause serious injury, sometimes even resulting in fractured bones. Even trained Totodile may occasionally crunch on and destroy possessions like watches, bags, phones, and on at least one recorded occasion, Pokédexes. Due to these potential obstacles, Totodile are often seen as the hardest, though perhaps the most rewarding, to raise Johto starters.
All Totodile have the ability Torrent , which enables Water -type attacks to do 150% damage if the user's HP is below 30%.
Additionally, Totodile have very large and powerful jaws, and mainly are used when in battle. The Pokédex states that "its well-developed jaws are powerful and capable of crushing anything".
Totodile evolves into Croconaw starting at level 18 and then evolves into Feraligatr starting at level 30.
Its well-developed jaws are powerful and capable of crushing anything. Even its trainer must be careful.
It is small but rough and tough. It won't hesitate to take a bite out of anything that moves.
This rough critter chomps at any moving object it sees. Turning your back on it is not recommended.
Despite the smallness of its body, Totodile's jaws are very powerful. While the Pokémon may think it is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough power to cause serious injury.
Despite its small body, Totodile's jaws are very powerful. While it may think it is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough strength to cause serious injury.
It has the habit of biting anything with its developed jaws. Even its Trainer needs to be careful.
Its powerful, well-developed jaws are capable of crushing anything. Even its trainer must be careful.
Its powerful, well-developed jaws are capable of crushing anything. Even its Trainer must be careful.
Despite the smallness of its body, Totodile's jaws are very powerful. While the Pokémon may think its is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough power to cause serious injury.
It has a habit of biting everything with its well-developed jaws. Even its Trainer needs to be careful.
Totodile debuted in the Pokémon Anime during the episode Don't Touch That 'dile , where a Totodile belonging to Professor Elm was stolen by Team Rocket . It was later recovered and returned.
Ash captured a Totodile in the episode The Totodile Duel , where Ash and Misty battled for a Totodile that one of them caught. Not knowing whose Lure Ball captured the Pokémon, the two have a Pokémon battle to decide who keeps it. Ash won the battle against Misty, receiving the Totodile.
This Pokémon stayed with Ash during the course of his travels throughout the Johto region, and is currently being kept at Professor Oak's Lab .
Much later in the series, a Totodile made a small appearance in the episode Up Close and Personable! at the Pokémon Summer Academy . As shown in a movie poster, Totodile along with the other two Johto First partner Pokémon , appear in the 12th Pokémon movie.
Totodile also appears the episode An Egg Scramble! . It appears as Khoury 's Pokémon .
Harriet also owns a Totodile in The Power of Us .
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Silver stole a Totodile from Professor Elm. It refused to return when Gold attempted to bring it back to Prof. Elm. It soon evolved into a Croconaw after defeating a trap together with Gold's Cyndaquil in the Sprout Tower.
Totodile is based on a baby crocodilian. The yellow marking on its chest may be based on the yellow stripes on young alligators.
Totodile comes from the words tot (a small child) and crocodile .
Its Japanese name, Waninoko, can be read as " child of a crocodile ". It could also simply be a combination of wani (crocodile/alligator) and ko (child).
Togepi is a Pokémon who appears to not have fully hatched out of its shell yet; only its head and stubby hands and feet appear out of its egg's shell. The parts of its body that appear are a pale, cream color, whereas the shell is predominantly white. Togepi's shell also has red and blue markings, shaped as triangles but one of them looks like a square. Its head has five spikes that appear to form a crown, or when viewing on the top of its head to be look like a star shape-like. Its eyes are small, black, and oval-shaped. When about to cry , its eye color may turn into red.
Togepi is friendly and docile, and loves being around with children. If anyone protects or makes it happy, it will return the favor by sharing its own joy.
However, Togepi is always at risk of being forgotten during a crisis, so it needs extremely cautious protection by its guardians and trainers.
Togepi can release toxins from its head. It can retract its spikes when it sleeps. Sometimes it can absorb energies around it and transfer said energies to the needy.
Togepi evolves into Togetic if leveled up with high friendship and then evolves into Togekiss if it touches a Shiny Stone .
The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly.
A proverb claims that happiness will come to anyone who can make a sleeping Togepi stand up.
It is considered to be a symbol of good luck. Its shell is said to be filled with happiness.
As its energy, Togepi uses the positive emotions of compassion and pleasure exuded by people and Pokémon. This Pokémon stores up feelings of happiness inside its shell, then shares them with others.
As its energy, it uses the feelings of compassion and pleasure exuded by people and Pokémon. It stores up happy feelings in its shell, then shares them out.
Its shell is said to be stuffed with happiness that it shares with kindhearted people.
It transforms the kindness and joy of others into happiness, which it stores in its shell.
This ovate creature is frequently mistaken for a moving egg when encountered out in the fields or in the mountains. Its guileless smile soothes the soul.
In many games of the core series , Togepi is featured in a Pokémon Egg from which it later hatches.
In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version as well as Pokémon Crystal Version , Togepi first appears as a Mystery Egg given to the player by Mr. Pokémon , and they have to deliver it to Professor Elm . It appears again after the player wins a battle against Falkner . One of Professor Elm 's helpers visits that city's Pokémon Center to ensure that the player receives the egg, which later hatches into into a Togepi.
In Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , a man near Five Island of the Sevii Islands will give the player a Togepi egg.
In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness , a scientist at Outskirt Stand gives the player a Shadow Togepi to purify.
In " Attack of the Prehistoric Pokémon " Ash discovers an egg in the ancient ruins at Grampa Canyon. Brock carries this egg around until the episode " Who Gets to Keep Togepi? ". At that point, Ash's Pokédex doesn't know about Togepi and it says more to be discovered about it. Later, Misty receives Togepi and eventually evolves into Togetic in " A Togepi Mirage! ". Togepi, through imprinting, comes to believe that Misty is its mother (as she was the first person it saw).
In " Where No Togepi Has Gone Before! ", a mischievous female Togepi wanders around Team Rocket's new hideout and cause a lot of trouble for Team Rocket and Ash, Dawn, and Brock. She plays pranks, using Attract to manipulate Ash's Pikachu , Dawn's Piplup , Brock's Croagunk , and Meowth (Team Rocket) ( Jessie's Yanmega is unaffected due to being female) to steal Team Rocket's space rocket. Brock's Happiny manages to snap them out of it by using Pound . Happiny and Togepi get ready to duel each other when the rocket is hit by Rayquaza 's Hyper Beam . Ash, Dawn, Brock, Team Rocket, and their Pokémon work together to stabilize the rocket, but Happiny and Togepi's fight causes it to fall again. Togepi uses Psychic to save herself as well as everyone on board, landing the rocket safely. Togepi tells the others (via Meowth translating for her) that she is tired and is going home to rest. Togepi leaves as the rocket explodes, skipping away innocently. She is seen at the end of the episode making her sinister face.
Togepi later reappears in Meloetta's Moonlight Serenade airing along with Kyurem vs. the Sword of Justice .
In The Power of Us , Harriet also owns a Togepi.
Despite being classified as a baby Pokémon, Togepi has made appearances as a colorless, basic stage Pokémon. Togepi has appeared in the following expansions:
As well as being a promo card in the Southern Island Series, Togepi was also available as a promo card from Coro Coro.
Togepi is one of the Pokémon that appears from a Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros. Melee and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . Like Clefairy , Togepi uses Metronome , but unlike Clefairy, the result causes status effects in the area around Togepi (Freeze, Burying, Flower on Head, Sleep), with the exception of one rare attack, where Togepi blackens out the screen for a few seconds (Night Shade) which can cause mass chaos, especially on moving levels or boss fights.
In Super Smash Bros. Melee , Super Smash Bros. Brawl , Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS , and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , there is also an unlockable trophy of Togepi.
Judging by the colorful patterns on its shell, Togepi might be based on an Easter egg , which is a symbol of life. Its head shape might be inspired by the tulip cups which are commonly used for baking cupcakes.
Togepi's name is derived from the Japanese " toge ", meaning "spike" (referring to the top of this Pokémon's head), and " pii ", the sound a chick or small bird makes.
Concept artwork of Ampharos.
Ampharos appears to be a tall, yellow sheep Pokémon who has black stripes on its ears, long neck, and tail. It has a red orb on its forehead and at the end of its tail that has the ability to glow in dark places. Ampharos has a fat white belly, the coloring of which ends at the base of its tail.
As a result of its evolution from Flaaffy, Ampharos has lost all of its wool.
Mega Ampharos has a more majestic look to it due to the energy from Mega Evolution stimulating its long-sleeping dragon's blood. The belly has sharp edges, its ears are also slightly longer and rounder in shape, the tip of its feet now black, and its tail is completely fluffy and containing several red orbs.
Ampharos is a gentle Pokémon that spends most of its time grazing in flocks of other Ampharos and its pre-evolutions, Mareep and Flaaffy. Because its tail glows brightly, in times of emergency it uses its tail as a beacon in the place of a lighthouse. The brighter the light, the healthier the individual. On the other hand. flickering, dimly glowing lights are signals of sickness or exhaustion. In the wild, these Pokémon usually keep their tails unlit to avoid detection from enemies. Lighthouses using Ampharos are legally required to have at least 3 of them at any given time to prevent any of them from being fatigued.
Ampharos' tail can emit a glowing light which can reach outer space (aka the cosmos.) In ancient times, sailors used to rely on Ampharos' bright light to send signals and apply as beacons. The light from its tail can be seen from a far perspective, e.g. the horizon by the lighthouse.
Ampharos evolves from Flaaffy starting at level 30 and is the final evolution of Mareep . Ampharos can Mega Evolve into Mega Ampharos using its Ampharosite .
The tail's tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people.
The bright light on its tail can be seen far away. It has been treasured since ancient times as a beacon.
When it gets dark, the light from its bright, shiny tail can be seen from far away on the ocean's surface.
Ampharos gives off so much light that it can be seen even from space. People in the old days used the light of this Pokémon to send signals back and forth with others far away.
It gives off so much light that it can be seen even from space. People in the old days used its light to send signals back and forth with others far away.
The tip of its tail shines brightly. In the olden days, people sent signals using the tail's light.
Ampharos gives off so much light that it can be seen even in space. People in the old days used the light of this Pokémon to send signals back and forth with others far away.
The light from its tail can be seen from space. This is why you can always tell exactly where it is, which is why it usually keeps the light off. Mega Evolution : Excess energy from Mega Evolution stimulates its genes, and the wool it had lost grows in again.
Its tail shines bright and strong. It has been prized since long ago as a beacon for sailors. Mega Evolution : Massive amounts of energy intensely stimulated Ampharos’s cells, apparently awakening its long-sleeping dragon’s blood.
The tip of its tail shines brightly. In the olden days, people sent signals using the light from this Pokémon's tail.
The tail's tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people. Mega Evolution : Massive amounts of energy intensely stimulated Ampharos's cells, apparently awakening its long-sleeping dragon's blood.
Jasmine has an Ampharos in the anime called Amphy . Watt also has an Ampharos in the anime. McCauley has an Ampharos that appears in A Chip Off the Old Brock . Karsten has an Ampharos that appears in Drifloon on the Wind . An Ampharos also appears in One Team, Two Team, Red Team, Blue Team! . An Ampharos also appears in Frozen on Their Tracks! operating the train.
Ampharos is based on a sheep lacking wool. It also may be based on the mythical Chinese beast of the Chaofeng , described as one of the Nine sons of the dragon God. It is said to be the cross between a sheep and a dragon, with a thin neck, a bushy tail, lion like body, and two horns on its head, and its personality was described as adventurous, risktaking, and inquisitive. Due to its love of heights and adventure, the dragon assigned Chaofeng the duty of decorating the four corners of houses as a ward against evil spirits and disaster.
Its Mega Evolution may be based on the bighorn sheep or the ram , due to its long curly horns. It also may be based on Eastern dragons due to its long wooly mane, wooly tail, the orbs on its tail resembling pearls , and Dragon typing.
Its Japanese name, Denryu, comes from 電気 (electricity) and 竜 (dragon). The name can be written in kanji as 電竜 (electric dragon) or 電流 (electric current). Its Thai name, เด็นริว, is a transliteration of this name.
Its Korean name, Jeonryong, is a direct semantic translation: 전 jeon (電, electricity) and 룡 ryong (龍, dragon).
Its Chinese name, 電龍 (read Diànlóng in Mandarin and Dihnlùhng in Cantonese), is also a direct semantic translation.
Its English name, Ampharos, comes from "amp", a measure of electrical current, and "pharos", Greek for lighthouse. This is also its German name; its Russian (Амфарос) and current Hindi (ऐम्फ़रॉस) names are transliterations of this name.
Its French name, Pharamp, may come from phare (lighthouse) and ampere .
Its former Hindi name, ड्रैगली ( Dragli ), may come from dragon and lit .
Marill is a small blue mouse-like Pokémon. It has a round body with a white belly, round ears and small limbs. Its tail is black and bends in a zigzag pattern, and it has a blue ball at its end.
A Marill uses its tail to ensure it doesn't drown during its swim, as well as avoid getting washed away by strong currents by wrapping itself around a tree.
Marill can be found swimming in various bodies of fresh water as well as frolicking on lake shores and riversides. Their spherical tails, which contained nutrition as Azurill, now contain an oil that is less dense than water. They act as buoys when Marill swim, helping them stay afloat even in the roughest currents. The amount of oil in their tails can be regulated to allow the Pokémon to swim at varying depths.
Marill eat both underwater plants and occasionally fish for food. When fishing, these Pokémon will wrap their tails tightly around nearby trees and leap into the rushing rapids of rivers. After nabbing fish, Marill will pull themselves back onto land with their springy tails. Their ears are highly developed and can pick up minute sounds both above and below the the surface of the water.
Marill's tail is extendable and contains oil that allows it to float. They are strong swimmer, although they are smaller than other Pokémon like Poliwrath .
Marill evolves from Azurill if leveled up with high friendship and evolves into Azumarill starting at level 18.
Tracey's Marill.
Marill's original name: Pikablu
Marill's early design.
Marill is a mix between a mouse and a beach ball . Its tail might be inspired by spherical lifesaving floats or buoys . Its ears are akin to the shape of water molecules . It may also be based on water rats, which are rodents that live near the riverside.
Marill and its Japanese name Maril may be named after "maru" (which means round in Japanese) or "mari" (ball in Japanese) and "ruri" (lapis lazuli in Japanese), as well as "rill", which means a small stream. It may also been named after the color marine blue.
Concept artwork of Umbreon
Umbreon is a quadrupedal, mammalian feliform Pokémon that resembles a black cat with some lagomorph traits. Umbreon has mainly sleek black fur with luminescent yellow rings encircling its ears and tail and round yellow circular patterns on its forehead and on each of its legs. Its physical characteristics resemble both a feline and canine, with a short muzzle and a small triangular nose, but its large ears are reminiscent to a hare or a rabbit. It has red eyes, and unlike the rest of the Eeveelutions they also have visible black-colored oval-shaped pupils that often appear slit, as well as patches of black fur of a darker shade around its eyes. Umbreon has a slightly bushy black tail with a single yellow ring encircling its thickest part; the tail thins out at the tip. Umbreon has small sharp fangs, and can be seen when it opens its mouth, similar to Sylveon . Compared to its counterparts, Umbreon is significantly different from Eevee in general appearance, as it resembles its pre-evolution the least. It is usually the result of Eevee having a strong friendship with its Trainer during the nighttime.
A Shiny Umbreon has blue ring markings, its fur is a deep shade of gray rather than black, and its eyes are bright yellow like a black cat's.
Like other Eeveelutions, Umbreon are carnivorous Pokémon, known as solitary predators, and will stalk prey silently during the night. When an Umbreon senses an enemy's presence, it waits for its enemy to come into range. It kills its prey by pouncing, then biting its throat with its small, sharp fangs before eating it. Normally, Umbreon have a quiet but gentle personality.
Once tamed, they are very protective of their Trainers similarly to Espeon and will chase aggressors with Pursuit .
As it is an evolution of Eevee relying on friendship like Espeon and Sylveon, Umbreon are very rarely found in the wild, and are more commonly sighted in urban areas, where they are occasionally seen sleeping on rooftops during the day, and walking across roofs at night as they scan their environment from above for prey (as they have the feline ability to climb).
Upon being exposed to the moonlight, the patterns on their fur glow and fill up with energy. Umbreon releases the energy at night or when they are excited, and can use it to strike fear into bystanders to scare them away. The patterns on their fur gain a dim golden light when about to attack.
As its power is based on moonlight, Umbreon are nocturnal and have powerful night vision. They cannot battle well during the daytime, and therefore serve as a polar opposite to its counterpart Espeon. The primarily black color of an Umbreon's fur allows it to easily hide and conceal itself in the dark.
Umbreon can spray a cloud of toxic gas from their sweat glands to paralyze their aggressor when agitated.
Umbreon evolves from Eevee if leveled up with high friendship during the night and is one of its eight possible evolutions . In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness , Umbreon evolves from Eevee if it touches a Moon Shard .
In the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series , Umbreon evolves if it touches a Lunar Ribbon .
When agitated, this Pokémon protects itself by spraying poisonous sweat from its pores.
When darkness falls, the rings on the body begin to glow, striking fear in the hearts of anyone nearby.
On the night of a full moon, or when it gets excited, the ring patterns on its body glow yellow.
Umbreon evolved as a result of exposure to the moon's waves. It hides silently in darkness and waits for its foes to make a move. The rings on its body glow when it leaps to attack.
Umbreon evolved from exposure to the moon's energy pulses. It lurks in darkness and waits for its foes to move. The rings on its body glow when it leaps to attack.
The light of the moon changed Eevee's genetic structure. It lurks in darkness for prey.
When exposed to the moon's aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it gains a mysterious power.
When exposed to the moon's aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it's filled with a mysterious power.
When this Pokémon becomes angry, it pores secrete a poisonous sweat, which it sprays at its opponent's eyes.
With its black fur, it blends into the darkness. It bides time, and when prey appears, this Pokémon goes for its throat, and then eats it.
This Pokémon is nocturnal. Even in total darkness, its large eyes can spot its prey clearly.
It lurks in the dark of night looking for prey. At the moment it pounces, the rings on its body glow dimly but ominously.
When this Pokémon becomes angry, its pores secrete a poisonous sweat, which it sprays at its opponent's eyes.
The light of the moon changed Eevee's genetic structure. It lurks in the darkness, waiting for prey.
It is most active in the wee hours of the night, when moonlight bathes the land. Its large eyes can pierce the darkness and perceive prey with absolute clarity.
When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it gains a mysterious power.
Generation II beta Umbreon
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Though it wasn't based on any distinct animal, Fujiwara mentioned that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their type . [2]
Additionally, it is most likely based on a black cat , due to its short muzzle and body structure. Umbreon's Japanese name, Blacky (or Bracky), could be a reference to black cats, as they are considered lucky in Japan, but unlucky in Western countries. Its rings could represent Egyptian lunar markings and jewelry, associated with the Egyptian goddess Bastet , who was originally a Lioness goddess of the sun, but Greeks occupying Ancient Egypt had her changed into the goddess of the moon. Furthering the lunar theme, Metamorphoses is a narrative poem that involves the Roman Goddess of the moon, Diana , can change into the form of a cat as she flees to Egypt.
Its ears are rabbit-like, which is likely a reference to the Moon Hare of Japanese folklore.
Similar to Sylveon, another inspiration for Umbreon's design might be the highly popular Japanese cryptid known as the " Cabbit ", a mythical hybrid of a domestic cat and a rabbit.
Umbreon comes from "Umbra", which means "shade" or "shadow", and "Eon", which means a long period of time.
Its Japanese name, Blacky, is transcribed as Burakkii, and comes from "black" and "lucky" (in Japan, black cats, which served as the inspiration for Umbreon, are considered an omen of good luck). It may also be inspired from 月 (tsuki, Japanese for moon), a reference for being the Moonlight Pokémon.
Espeon is a quadrupedal mammalian feline Pokémon. Sleek, lilac-purple fur covers its body, and it has a red jewel embedded into its forehead. Like all Eeveelutions , it has a round head and small features all around. Its face is distinctly cat-like, with a short, blunt muzzle and a tiny, triangular nose. Its paws, legs, and feet are particularly rounded. It has long, pointed triangular-shaped ears, and whisker-like tufts of fur protruding from each side of its face, just below its ears. Its eyes are deep purple and almond-shaped with white pupils. It has a slender tail that tapers and splits into two ends. Compared to its counterparts, Espeon has a closer physical resemblance to cats. It is usually the result of Eevee having a strong friendship with its Trainer during the daytime.
As a Shiny , Espeon has bright green fur while the insides of its ears turn blue. Its eyes and gem remain unchanged.
Espeon are extremely loyal to any Trainers it considers to be worthy. Its precognitive powers enable the Pokémon to protect it and its Trainer from danger. In most cases, it is a friendly but quiet Pokémon.
Espeon are connected with the sun and daylight due to their conditions for evolution. It is said that it gathers psychic energy in its gem through sunbathing, making them poor battlers in the dark of night.
Being an evolution of Eevee relying on human friendship like Umbreon and Sylveon , Espeon are highly rare in the wild, and are more often sighted in urban areas, where they are sometimes seen resting during the day to gain power or grooming themselves.
Espeon uses the fine hair on its pelt and the gem on its head to sense air currents and predict its opponent's next move as well as the weather. When predicting an opponent's actions, the tip of its tail quivers. The gem on Espeon's forehead glows when it unleashes psychic energy from the gem and darkens when all of the built-up energy has been exhausted. Espeon builds up its psychic power by bathing in the sunlight. As such, it does not handle battles at night well - the polar opposite to its Generation II counterpart Umbreon, where that Pokémon fares poorly at daytime.
Espeon evolves from Eevee if leveled up with high friendship during the day and is one of its eight possible evolutions . In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness , Espeon evolves from Eevee if it touches a Sun Shard .
It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its enemy's actions.
By reading air currents, it can predict things such as the weather or its foe's next move.
The tip of its forked tail quivers when it is predicting its opponent's next move.
Espeon is extremely loyal to any trainer it considers to be worthy. It is said that this Pokémon developed its precognitive powers to protect its trainer from harm.
An Espeon is extremely loyal to any trainer it considers to be worthy. It is said to have developed precognitive powers to protect its trainer from harm.
Its fur has the look and feel of velvet. The orb on its forehead glows when it uses psycho-power.
Its fur is so sensitive, it can sense minute shifts in the air and predict the weather.
Its fur is so sensitive, it can feel minute shifts in the air and predict the weather...and its foes' thoughts.
Espeon is extremely loyal to any Trainer it considers to be worthy. It is said that this Pokémon developed its precognitive powers to protect its Trainer from harm.
It can instantaneously sense its opponent's movements by feeling air currents with its fine fur.
It unleashes psychic power from the orb on its forehead. When its power is exhausted, the orb grows dull and dark.
Although it originally had no powers at all, people say its precognitive faculties were awakened by its need to protect itself.
Psychic power builds up in the orb on its forehead as it bathes in the sunshine. Espeon is not good at battling at night.
Its fur has the look and feel of velvet. The orb on its forehead glows when it uses psychic power.
Wields an arcane power with which it can predict the weather and even people's thoughts. When bathed in sunshine, the scarlet orb on its brow glows and builds energy.
The tip of its forked tail quivers when it is predicting its opponent’s next move.
It uses the fine fur on its body to sense movement in the air and predict the weather...as well as its foes' thoughts.
Generation IV beta male and female Espeon.
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Though it wasn't based on any distinct animal, Fujiwara mentioned that Eevee reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. Each one of Eevee's evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their type . [2]
Espeon's design is is mostly based on a Nekomata , a two-tailed cat yōkai (mystical spirit) of Japanese mythology that holds a variety of psychic powers, which may include the ability to foresee the future or enter someone's dreams. Additionally, it resembles an oriental cat due to its large ears and slender body. Its ears may have also drawn inspiration from a caracal or serval.
Espeon's name is derived from ESP (Extrasensory Perception), which is the ability to see the future and "eon", as is followed by every evolution of Eevee. It could also be derived from "espionage" (which is the practice of spying to obtain information on an enemy, much like Espeon does by psychically predicting its foes next move with the gem on its forehead).
Concept artwork of Scizor.
Scizor is a human-sized mantis similar to its evolutionary predecessor Scyther , with a thick, metallic red exoskeleton and crab-like claws. Scizor's body is as hard as steel, with claws strong enough to crush any hard object. They can be opened and closed like jaws, and are patterned with black, eyespots with yellow "pupils".
Mega Scizor's pincers lengthen and develop serrations. The lower half of the claws turn white and gain three-pointed spikes on the underside. The barbs on Mega Scizor's claws can stab through concrete, and opponents caught in them are unable to escape. Its eyespots are now blue with a thin black rim. Though they lack the black rim, its eyes are blue as well. Additional pieces of black armoring appear on various areas of its body: a three-pointed crest on its forehead and striated coverings on its shoulders and thighs. Mega Scizor's legs are less detailed and resemble large, tapered spikes with white tips.
The difference between a male and female Scizor is by looking at the size of their black-pointed striped abdomen. The females have larger ones than the males.
They are tougher and stronger than Scyther, but have lost their predecessor's speed. Instead, they spread their wings to cool off, and flap them very rapidly to heat up, or to blow air to cool themselves off. While Scyther are mantis-like predators, striking fast and simply evading potential pursuers, Scizor are coated with a red steel of sorts and therefore not quite as agile. Once they engage their foes, either in the wild or at the direction of a Pokémon Trainer in a Pokémon battle , they behave more like Scyther, striking quickly with their powerful claws, raking more than pinching, and relying on their startling agility to evade attacks. They will raise their claws and wave them around to scare off predators or foes, giving them the appearance of having three heads.
Scizor are known to live in the grasslands despite not being found in the wild.
Scizor evolves from Scyther if traded while holding a Metal Coat , or just from exposure to it in Pokémon Legends: Arceus . Scizor can Mega Evolve into Mega Scizor using its Scizorite .
It swings its eye-patterned pincers up to scare its foes. This makes it look like it has three heads.
Its wings are not used for flying. They are flapped at high speed to adjust its body temperature.
This Pokémon's pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object it gets a hold of into bits.
Scizor has a body with the hardness of steel. It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks. This Pokémon flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature.
A Scizor has a body with the hardness of steel. It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks. It flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature.
It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers.
It raises its pincers with eyelike markings for intimidation. It also swings them down dangerously.
It uses its wings to adjust its body temperature. Otherwise, its metal body would become too hot and melt in the heat of battle. Mega Evolution : The excess energy that bathes this Pokémon keeps it in constant danger of overflow. It can’t sustain a battle over long periods of time.
Once it has identified an enemy, this Pokémon smashes it mercilessly with pincers hard as steel. Mega Evolution : Due to the effects of Mega Evolution, its pincers have taken on a more diabolical form, ripping anything they pinch to shreds.
Its body is like steel. Its tough, heavy pincers are more suited to smashing enemies than grabbing them. Mega Evolution : It stores the excess energy from Mega Evolution, so after a long time passes, its body starts to melt.
Once it has identified something as an enemy, it will continue beating them with its steel-hard pincers until there’s nothing left but scraps. Mega Evolution : It's better at beating things than grasping them. When it battles for a long time, the weight of its pincers becomes too much to bear.
Bulky pincers account for one third of Scizor's body weight. A single swing of one of these pincers will crush a boulder completely.
Though its body is slim, Scizor has tremendous attacking power. Even Scizor's muscles are made of metal.
Evolved by way of a curious item. The shell covering its body has been shown to be stronger than forged steel.
This Pokémon’s pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object they get ahold of into bits.
It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers. Mega Evolution : Due to the effects of Mega Evolution, its pincers have taken on a more diabolical form, ripping anything they pinch to shreds.
Scizor combines traits from mantises, ants, and lobsters. The spots on its claws may reference eyespots present on several insects, which serve to either intimidate, confuse, or camouflage an animal from its predators.
Scizor is a mix of the words scissors and razor .
Its Japanese name, Hassamu , comes from hasamu (to cut or snip off).
Heracross is a large, blue, winged bipedal beetle-like Pokémon. It has a capsule-shaped thorax similar to Pinsir's, a pair of yellow eyes and two clawed arms and feet. Growing from its head is a large T-shaped horn, which is flanked on either side by a smaller antenna. Heracross' horn shape depends on its gender.
Heracross' shiny variation is all pink as opposed to its regular blue. Males differ from females in that the female's horn ends in a heart shape.
Mega Heracross is bulkier than its previous form. Thin orange markings now rim its head, hands, and shoulders. Additionally, there is a half-circle, orange marking over its eyes. It now has a long, pointed nose that curves slightly upward. Its back now lacks wings and is completely yellow. The horn on its head has grown into a large, simple spike with two smaller spikes on the front. The antennae have lengthened as well and now have ovoid tips. Mega Heracross's forearms have thickened and lost their spines.
Male Heracross have a pointed horn like the image above. Female Heracross have a heart-shaped tip on their horn.
Heracross is a powerful but docile Pokémon. Its natural habitat is forests and its diet consists of tree sap, nectar and honey. Heracross are also shown to work with Butterfree in the wild in order to share sap to eat. Its strength is such that it can topple large trees if it so wished. Heracross's main weapon is its large horn, of which it is particularly proud. However, it only uses it in the wild to deter its foes, not hurt them. Heracross often fight using brute strength, usually pushing pack their foes and lifting them with their arms and horn.
Heracross live in boreal, temperate, and tropical forests, where it feeds on tree sap.
Heracross does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Heracross using its Heracronite .
Heracross is based on a Japanese rhinoceros beetle and a Hercules beetle (the latter's influence is more obvious in its Mega form), both insects popular for insect fighting, a common hobby in Japan and one of the Pokémon franchise's inspirations. It may be inspired by Megalon , a beetle kaiju who fought alongside Gigan and fought Godzilla in the 1973 film "Godzilla vs. Megalon".
Heracross and Herakurosu come from Heracles (the Greek mythological hero known by the Romans as Hercules, after which the Hercules beetle was named) and "cross" (angry, from its Fighting type).
Tyranitar is a large, bipedal dinosaurian Pokémon. It has a gray-blue diamond-shaped scale on its belly and has a hard green-colored armor covering its entire body, with some holes on it. Several spikes protrude from its body. Its arms and legs are small and chubby with three sharp claws extending from it.
It has a pair of sharp, pointed teeth on both of its jaws, along with a large powerful tail protruding from its back.
As Mega Tyranitar, the spikes have grown even larger to the point that its' back has split open and it has grown larger overall. The diamond-shaped scale has also turned completely red.
With Sand Stream, Tyranitar can summon a sandstorm which lasts for a while, making it even more durable against Special attacks, and damaging any Pokémon that is not immune to it. Tyranitar can resist most forms of attack and can learn various powerful moves, including Focus Blast, Outrage, and Iron Tail. It can prevent opponents from eating their own Berry if Tyranitar has Unnerve as its ability.
Tyranitar is an extremely violent Pokémon, being able to burn down an entire mountain in a rampage, often causing people to redraw maps after its destructive rampage. They frequently seek other Pokémon worthy of their time to fight. Tyranitar that live in Galar are known to frequently clash with Duraludon over resources and territory. Despite those traits they are affectionate to their own and those who took care of it; some as a Larvitar, others as an an adult tyranitar.
Mega Tyranitar's drastic evolution has caused some people to wonder if it even listens to its Trainer's orders.
Tyranitar evolves from Pupitar starting at level 55 and is the final evolution of Larvitar . Tyranitar can Mega Evolve into Mega Tyranitar using its Tyranitarite .
Its body can't be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is really want to make challenges against enemies.
Extremely strong, it can change the landscape. It has an insolent nature that makes it not care about others.
In just one of its mighty hands, it has the power to make the ground shake and mountains crumble.
Tyranitar is so overwhelmingly powerful, it can bring down a whole mountain to make its nest. This Pokémon wanders about in mountains seeking new opponents to fight.
Its body can't be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies.
A Tyranitar is so overpowering, it can bring down a whole mountain to make its nest. It roams in mountains seeking new opponents to fight.
If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward.
It wanders through the mountains seeking opponents to fight. If it finds an opponent that’s not worthy, Tyranitar ignores it and wanders on. Mega Evolution : Due to the colossal power poured into it, this Pokémon’s back split right open. Its destructive instincts are the only thing keeping it moving.
This Pokémon is a mobile disaster, leaving mountains crumbled and houses destroyed in its wake. Mega Evolution : The effects of Mega Evolution make it more ferocious than ever. It's unclear whether it can even hear its Trainer's orders.
The quakes caused when it walks make even great mountains crumble and change the surrounding terrain.
Extremely strong, it can change the landscape. It is so insolent that it doesn’t care about others.
If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward. Mega Evolution : The effects of Mega Evolution make it more ferocious than ever. It's unclear whether it can even hear its Trainer's orders.
Tyranitar draws inspiration from lizards and dinosaurs. However, it appears to be mostly based on the movie monster (or kaiju ) Bemular , but also seems to take notes from the more popular Godzilla .
Its Japanese name, バンギラス (Bangiras, Hepburn: Bangirasu ), is a play on Anguirus ( アンギラス , Angirasu ? ) , a kaiju from the Godzilla franchise), and may incorporate the words 蛮 ( ban , "barbarian" ? ) and "bang" ( バン , ban ? ) .
Its English name, Tyranitar, comes from "tyrant" and "tar" (a dark, sticky substance that fossils often form in). It may also be derived from Tyrannosaurus rex .
Lugia is an immense, draconian and mythical Pokémon with avian qualities. It has silver-white feathers over most of its body, except for its blue underbelly. Lugia has ten fins running along its back, which stand upward while flying, but lie flat on its back in the water and on land. The fins are used as rudders for steering in the air and are flattened in the water to reduce resistance. It has two, powerful rear legs with three-toed feet, and two wings with large, finger-like feathers, giving the appearance of hands. Its eyes are masked with two dark blue fins, and two similar spikes are at the end of its long tail. Lugia's head tapers to a point and it has a serrated beak, which bears similarities to a dragon's maw. It may be inspired by the Wyvern, a mythical, draconic creature that stands on two legs, wings that function as hands and often has a barbed tail.
Lugia has the ability Pressure , which causes the opposing Pokémon to double its PP usage in battle.
Known as the Guardian of the Seas, Lugia is tremendously intelligent and is very gentle with the life around it, despite its colossal size. Due to the fact that it can blow houses away with the single flap of its wings, it isolates itself deep within the great current, to prevent it from harming civilization. Lugia is also intelligent enough to even speak telepathically, like Mewtwo . It can gracefully fly through the skies and sometimes resembles a bird. It is closely related to Ho-Oh, which is considered to be its rival or polar opposite, as Ho-Oh is the Guardian of the Skies. The two once both resided in Ecruteak City atop the Tin and Brass Towers and were worshiped by humans until the Brass Tower burnt to the ground and both flew away. Lugia and Ho-Oh are the mascots of Pokémon Gold and Silver, as well as the remakes HeartGold and SoulSilver. Strangely, the two Pokémon have completely different types. Fire and Psychic is a very unusual match up, this is also strange because Lugia knows Water-type attacks, giving Ho-Oh the disadvantage in battle. This may be a reason that these Pokémon have never battled each other in the anime. It is also known that if Lugia flaps its wings, it causes a 40-day storm.
It is highly intelligent, and because of the devastating power it could accidentally inflict, it isolates itself deep underwater and tends to sleep in solitude. Lugia is the only known Pokémon that learns Aeroblast. It is extremely rare and is hardly ever seen.
Lugia does not evolve .
It is said that it quietly spends its time deep at the bottom of the sea because its powers are too strong.
It is said to be the guardian of the seas. It is rumored to have been seen on the night of a storm.
It has an incredible ability to calm raging storms. It is said that Lugia appears when storms start.
Lugia's wings pack devastating power - a light fluttering of its wings can blow apart regular houses. As a result, this Pokémon chooses to live out of sight deep under the sea.
Lugia is so powerful even a light fluttering of its wings can blow apart houses. As a result, it chooses to live out of sight deep under the sea.
It slumbers at the bottom of a deep trench. If it flaps its wings, it is said to cause a 40-day storm .
It sleeps in a deep-sea trench. If it flaps its wings, it is said to cause a 40-day storm.
Lugia's wings pack devastating power and a light fluttering of its wings can blow apart regular houses. As a result, this Pokémon chooses to live out of sight deep under the sea.
Lugia appears as a protagonist in The Power Of One . Lawrence III , a Pokémon collector, travels to the Shamouti Islands to add the Legendary Bird trio to his collection, and in the process hopes to lure out Lugia.
In the episode Around the Whirlpool when Ash and his friends fall into a sea filled with Whirlpools, an unknown Lugia (the parent of the baby Lugia referenced below) saves them by calming the currents. They only see the silhouette of the Lugia for a brief moment though and are unable to properly identify the Pokémon.
A baby Lugia named Silver was featured in the episodes The Mystery is History , A Parent Trapped! , and A Promise is a Promise in the Pokémon Anime series. This Lugia was the target of Team Rocket in order to lure out its parent.
A Lugia also appears in MS018: Pokémon the Movie: Hoopa and the Clash of Ages , where it is summoned by Hoopa to aid in the battle against Shadow Hoopa, before the shadow sends it back to the sea
Shadow Lugia
In Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness a Lugia was captured by Cipher and was turned into a Shadow Pokémon . This Lugia became known as XD001, the first of a project to create many Shadow Lugia. Unlike other Shadow Pokémon, Shadow Lugia has different colors from others of its kind.
Lugia is based on Ryūjin , a Shinto dragon god who lived on the ocean floor and was the Shinto god of the sea. The two have similarities in mythology, and Lugia's Shiny colors (red and white) are the same colors as the coral Ryujin 's palace was made of. Along with Ho-Oh , their Pokédex entries reference a flood myth, a group of similar legends found in various cultures worldwide.
Lugia may be derived from lutetium (a silverish element), which in turn is named after Lutetia (the Roman name for Paris, the city of light). It may also incorporate deluge .
Like its lesser counterpart Pokémon Moltres , Ho-Oh is based on the legendary Phoenix, a creature of Greek Mythology also known as the Firebird or the Phoenix (also the capital of Arizona). It is also based on the vermilion bird of the south. It bears a resemblance to a red peacock. Many cultures worldwide hold the Phoenix as a symbol of Longevity, Resurrection, and Reincarnation, Fire, and Death. Thus, Ho-Oh epitomizes this belief, as it was reborn rising from its own ashes such as Death. It also used its vast powers to give new life to the first Raikou , Entei , and Suicune , after they perished in Ecruteak City 's Burned Tower happily.
It is said that wherever a Ho-Oh flies, a beautiful rainbow appears behind it.
It is believed that anyone lucky enough to see this Pokémon will be blessed with eternal happiness. Some believe that Ho-oh will stop to rest at the feet of rainbows, but will only appear to those who have pure hearts.
Ho-oh, a Legendary Bird Pokémon based on the Phoenix Bird, is a vastly powerful Fire -and- Flying type Pokémon. It can revive any Pokémon, is incredibly fast, and has the devastating Fire-Type attack, "Sacred Fire".
It also holds an item called Sacred Ash , which is like a Pokémon Center , only portable. This Held Item is unique in that it revives all fainted Pokémon in your party to full HP/full PP. If caught at Navel Rock in Emerald / FireRed/LeafGreen the Sacred Ash is buried under the spot that Ho-Oh occupies. After Ho-Oh is caught or defeated, press the A button and you will obtain the Hold Item Sacred Ash.
Ho-Oh does not evolve .
Legends claim this Pokémon flies the world's skies continuously on its magnificent seven-colored wings.
A legend says that its body glows in seven colors. A rainbow is said to form behind it when it flies.
It will reveal itself before a pure-hearted trainer by shining its bright rainbow-colored wings.
Ho-Oh's feathers glow in seven colors depending on the angle at which they are struck by light. These feathers are said to bring happiness to the bearers. This Pokémon is said to live at the foot of a rainbow.
Its feathers--which glow in seven colors depending on the angle at which they are struck by light--are thought to bring joy. It is said to live at the foot of a rainbow.
It possesses seven-colored wings. It is said that those who see Ho-Oh are promised an eternal happiness.
It will reveal itself before a pure-hearted Trainer by shining its bright, rainbow-colored wings.
Its feathers are in seven colors. It is said that anyone seeing it is promised eternal happiness.
Ho-oh was first seen in the first episode, Pokémon - I Choose You! . It was one of the first Pokémon Ash has ever seen, but he doesn't know what it was until further on. When he announced to Professor Oak that he saw something, he pointed at Articuno ; it was a thoughtless mistake. Ho-oh was mentioned many times in For Ho-Oh The Bells Toll! , though the only legendary Pokémon seen was Suicune. Ho-Oh was last seen in Gotta Catch Ya Later! .
Ho-Oh is based on the fenghuang, a phoenix -like bird in Chinese mythology. The legend of Ho-Oh was inspired by an ancient Osakan folktale in which a phoenix rose from the ashes of a massive pagoda after it was destroyed by severe weather or war. Along with Lugia , their Pokédex entries reference a flood myth, a group of similar legends found in various cultures worldwide.
Its English name is simply another way of transcribing 鳳凰 Hōō or Suzaku , which is known to be the Japanese word for "Phoenix".
Celebi is small, fairy-like/insectoid Pokémon. Its body is pale yellowish green and bright green. It has long arms, small paws, a round, gracefully plump body, and short, thin legs with rounded feet. Its round head is shaped similarly to a flower bulb, extended upward in a left stroke that curls. Celebi's round, bright teal-blue eyes, bordered by black markings, are rather large, compensating most of its face, and it has a small mouth. Extending from its round head are two small, slightly curled, stringy antennae with teal tips. From its upper-back, two translucent white moth-like wings that are short and small sprout, extending only halfway up its arm length. It flutters its wings to fly, but levitates most of the time as well using its psychic powers.
Celebi is a mysterious and elusive Pokémon, very rarely seen by humans. It is said to come from the future, resides and conceals itself in deep forests, and often travels through time with its unique ability. It acts as a childlike and benevolent protector of the forest in which it lives. It has healing abilities in which it generously restores both plants and injured animals, even the wounds of humans that it trusts. It allows vegetation, such as grass and trees, to flourish.
As shown in both games, and the anime, it is very playful, joyful, and friendly toward those it gains trust with, and is loved by both Pokémon and people. According to legends about this Pokémon, is said by humans that an appearance of a Celebi means that a bright future is ahead.
Celebi's most notable ability is its time-traveling powers, which it often uses. It also possesses healing powers, and the ability to restore plantlife and let it flourish within the forest in which it protects. It has the power to guard forests, and the Pokémon that reside within.
Celebi does not evolve .
Celebi (Promo)
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time , A shiny Celebi is a minor supporting character that helped Grovyle to travel in time before. She helps the player and their partner to time travel back to the past. This is the first time that a Shiny Pokémon appears in a Pokémon Mystery Dungeon game.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky , Celebi returns during the Special Episode In the Future of Darkness , supporting Grovyle and Dusknoir in Vast Ice Mountain to defeat Primal Dialga .
In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon , normal Celebi, along with Ampharos and Jirachi , appears during the global crisis of Pokémon being turned to stone, when it transports the player and partner to Road to Primeval Forest before Nuzleaf and Beheeyem could turn them into stone for the second time.
The shiny Celebi from Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky also appears and can be connected by the Connection Orb . She is connected with Grovyle.
Both Celebi and Suicune star in Pokémon 4Ever . It inadvertently takes Sam from the past while trying to flee from a bounty hunter only to end up in the sights of a more sinister hunter .
Celebi has a role of being Zorua 's friend during the past in Pokémon—Zoroark: Master of Illusions .
Celebi in Super Smash Bros. Melee
Celebi is one of the Pokémon that can be spawned from a Poké Ball in Super Smash Bros. Melee . When a Poké Ball is thrown, there is a 1 in 251 chance of Celebi under the condition that all 25 fighters are available, all 29 stages are available, all 51 events are completed, and the score display has been unlocked by reaching 5,000 KOs. While it does not affect the ongoing battle, the thrower of the Poké Ball does unlock a bonus and trophy of Celebi.
Celebi in Super Smash Bros. Brawl
Celebi reprises its role as a Poké Ball Pokémon in Super Smash Bros. Brawl . There is an even rarer chance of Celebi appearing, 1 in 493, with 493 being how many species of Pokémon existed at the time of the game's release in Generation IV . Like the other "secret" Pokémon, it drops collectible items; in Celebi's case, it drops trophies.
There is both a sticker and a trophy of Celebi.
Celebi only appears as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS .
Beta and final sprites of Celebi
Beta Celebi comparison 2
Celebi appears to be based on fairies , who often live in forests and represent the untamed lushness of the natural world.
It might also draw inspiration from kodama , Shintō tree spirits; being the protector and nurturer of nature and being celebrated as the deity of the forests makes it akin to a kami or godlike being, or even an embodiment and collective manifestation of nature itself.
Its nature-managing personality, along with its time traveling abilities suggests that it is a play on being the child of Mother Nature and Father Time , who are often depicted as the embodiments of the phenomena of the universe.
With its insectoid traits, it may also draw inspiration from bees , which help plantlife flourish being the main pollinators of flowers.
Celebi is likely to be a combination of celestial and being . It may also incorporate serenity (peace), 美 ( bi , beauty), celebrity (as it is a Mythical Pokémon), and bee (given its insectoid appearance).
Treecko are small, bipedal, lizard-like Pokémon . They have two dark green, leaf-like tails, and a red underside, similar to its evolutions Grovyle , and Sceptile . Each of its hands and feet have three circular fingers and toes respectively. It has bright yellow eyes and skinny reptilian pupils. The bottom of its feet is sticky, enabling them to cling to things. It has a dark cyan skin with two red tails. Under its mouth is tan color and the color of its belly.
They require the least caution or experience out of the three Hoenn starters, given their cool and collected demeanors. Treecko never panic, even when faced with stronger foes, and will stand their ground no matter what. Though rare in the wild, they can be occasionally found high up in the branches of tall trees. They make their nests there to stay away from most predators. When their trees are threatened, Treecko will leap down and ferociously defend their homes.Treecko are known to stare down foes much larger themselves and provoke them into combat; however, they will never back down from a fight. Their unwavering tenacity makes them popular choices for First partner Pokémon.
All Treecko, and all Grass-type starters, have the ability Overgrow , which allows it to use Grass -type moves at 50% additional damage if its HP is below 33%. In the Dream World, Treecko's ability Unburden doubles its speed in battle once it's held berry is consumed, assuming it is holding a berry. Tiny spikes located on each of Treecko's digits allows it to stick to and climb walls with ease.Treecko slam foes with their tails to attack. They also use them to measure humidity and predict the next day's weather.
Treecko evolves into Grovyle starting at level 16 and then evolves into Sceptile starting at level 36.
Treecko has small hooks on the bottom of its feet that enable it to scale vertical walls. This Pokémon attacks by slamming foes with its thick tail.
Treecko is cool, calm, and collected - it never panics under any situation. If a bigger foe were to glare at this Pokémon, it would glare right back without conceding an inch of ground.
It quickly scales even vertical walls. It senses humidity with its tail to predict the next day's weather.
It makes its nest in a giant tree in the forest. It ferociously guards against anything nearing its territory. It is said to be the protector of the forest's trees.
The soles of its feet are covered by countless tiny spikes, enabling it to walk on walls and ceilings.
Small hooks on the bottom of its feet catch on walls and ceilings. That is how it can hang from above.
It runs across the ground as if it were gliding. It confuses its enemies with quick movements, then takes them down with Vine Whip.
Treecko is cool, calm, and collected—it never panics under any situation. If a bigger foe were to glare at this Pokémon, it would glare right back without conceding an inch of ground.
The soles of its feet are covered by countless tiny hooks, enabling it to walk on walls and ceilings.
The small hooks on the soles of its feet latch on to walls and ceilings, so it will never fall even while hanging upside down.
Treecko can quickly scale even vertical surfaces. It senses humidity with its tail to predict the next day's weather.
Treecko can quickly scale even vertical surfaces. It senses humidity with its tails to predict the next day's weather.
Treecko first appeared in the episode Get the Show on the Road! , where it was introduced to May as one of the First partner Pokémon from Professor Birch .
In the episode Tree's a Crowd , Ash caught a Treecko which would later evolve twice into a Sceptile . It usually puts a twig in its mouth.
Treecko's appearance is based heavily off of a gecko or lizard . More specifically, it is likely based on a leaf-tailed gecko .
Treecko's English name comes from combining the words "tree" and "gecko".
Its Japanese name, "Kimori", comes from combining the words "ki" (tree), "mori" (forest), and "yamori" (gecko).
Concept artwork of Torchic
Torchic is a small, chick-like Pokémon. Its soft, fluffy plumage is mainly bright orange, with tiny, yellow, developing wings, and a yellow plume of three feathers atop its head. It has a small, tan beak, and large, black eyes. It has tan-colored talons with three digits.
Male Torchic have a black spot on their butts, while females don't have it.
Torchic are very loyal and dependent on its Trainer, following behind them everywhere they would go. They are also afraid of the dark, and will begin crying if left alone at night. Many trainers find their behavior cute, however, and thus choose Torchic as their First partner Pokémon in Hoenn. Trainers who have raised Torchic describe embracing them as “like hugging fluffy bottles of hot water;” luckily for Torchic, who are often afraid of sleeping alone, their likeness to warm stuffed plushies also means that most trainers have little problem sleeping alongside them. Their cuteness and quirkiness make them consistently popular choices as First partner Pokémon in Hoenn.
Torchic have a fireball blazing inside its belly. When hugged, it fills its trainer with soothing warmth, as if they are holding a hot-water bottle. It can use the flame in its belly to exhale orbs of searing fire at its opponents. The fireballs that Torchic spits are of 1,800 degrees F, leaving its foes utterly scorched.
Torchic evolves into Combusken starting at level 16 and then evolves into Blaziken starting at level 36.
Torchic sticks with its Trainer, following behind with unsteady steps. This Pokémon breathes fire of over 1,800 degrees F, including fireballs that leave the foe scorched black.
Torchic has a place inside its body where it keeps its flame. Give it a hug - it will be glowing with warmth. This Pokémon is covered all over by a fluffy coat of down.
It has a flame sac inside its belly that perpetually burns. It feels warm if it is hugged.
If attacked, it strikes back by spitting balls of fire it forms in its stomach. A Torchic dislikes darkness because it can't see its surroundings.
A fire burns inside, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees F.
Inside its body is a place where it keeps a small flame. Hug it! It will be as warm as a hot-water bottle.
A fire burns inside, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.
Torchic sticks with its Trainer, following behind with unsteady steps. This Pokémon breathes fire of over 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit, including fireballs that leave the foe scorched black.
Torchic has a place inside its body where it keeps its flame. Give it a hug—it will be glowing with warmth. This Pokémon is covered all over by a fluffy coat of down.
A fire burns inside it, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.
Torchic feels toasty warm if you hug it. It has a flame sac inside its belly, and the flames burn continuously as long as Torchic has life in it.
In its belly, it has a sac filled with burning fire, meaning that Torchic feels as warm as a hot-water bottle if you hug it.
Torchic feels very warm to hug because a fire burns within it. It launches fireballs of over 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit.
Torchic is based on a chick (a baby chicken) and possibly the Basan . Its shiny coloration resembles that of the real-life baby chick.
Torchic is a portmanteau of torch and chick .
Mudkip is a small, quadrupedal amphibious Pokémon that resembles mudskipper fishes and axolotls. It is cyan blue in color, with a light blue neck, underbelly and a tail. It has a large upright segmented fin atop its head, and large orange cheeks with three pointed whisker-like feelers on each. It has short legs and small paws with three toes on each, and a very large fin-like tail.
When sleeping, they bury themselves within the soil at the edge of the water. Mudkip and members of its evolution family dwell in swamps or other wetlands, deep inside isolated islands, due to their dislike of freshwater lakes and ponds.
The fin on a Mudkip's head can be used for sensing air and water currents, and can discern nearby bodies of water. The fin can sense danger as well, giving Mudkip a warning. Mudkips breathe underwater using the gills on their cheeks, and their powerful tails drive them through the water quickly. Mudkip can lift big boulders. In a pinch, Mudkips will find strength enough to crush even rocks that are bigger than themselves.
Mudkip are born on beaches, and then swim to swamps on remote islands to live. Very few Mudkip are hatched in swamps. Mudkip and its evolutions tend to live in swamps and wetlands because of their dislike of fresh water ponds and lakes. They are an uncommon sight in the wild.
Mudkip evolves into Marshtomp starting at level 16 and then evolves into Swampert starting at level 36.
The fin on Mudkip's head acts as highly sensitive radar. Using this fin to sense movements of water and air, this Pokémon can determine what is taking place around it without using its eyes.
In water, Mudkip breathes using the gills on its cheeks. If it is faced with a tight situation in battle, this Pokémon will unleash its amazing power - it can crush rocks bigger than itself.
Its large tail fin propels it through water with powerful acceleration. It is strong in spite of its size.
On land, it can powerfully lift large boulders by planting its four feet and heaving. It sleeps by burying itself in soil at the water's edge.
To alert it, the fin on its head senses the flow of water. It has the strength to lift boulders.
Its power can crush boulders. It rests by covering itself with mud at the bottom of a river.
To alert it, the fin on its head senses the flow of water. It has the strength to heft boulders.
The fin on Mudkip’s head acts as highly sensitive radar. Using this fin to sense movements of water and air, this Pokémon can determine what is taking place around it without using its eyes.
In water, Mudkip breathes using the gills on its cheeks. If it is faced with a tight situation in battle, this Pokémon will unleash its amazing power—it can crush rocks bigger than itself.
Using the fin on its head, Mudkip senses the flow of water to keep track of what's going on around it. Mudkip has the strength to heft boulders.
It has the power to crush large boulders into pieces. To rest, it buries itself in mud at the bottom of a river.
When it uses its large tail fin, it picks up speed rapidly in the water. It is strong in spite of its small size.
Using the fin on its head, Mudkip senses the flow of water to keep track of what's going on around it. It has the strength to heft boulders.
In the anime, Brock gets a Mudkip after winning the trust of Old Man Swamp, who styles his hair like a Mudkip. In the events leading up to this, Old Man Swamp offers to let Brock see his eggs hatch. He agrees, and is treated to the sight of a baby Mudkip hatching. Later, his Mudkip evolves into a Marshtomp .
Mudkip appears to be based on the mudskipper and possibly an axolotl .
Mudkip's name comes from mudskipper .
Concept artwork of Gardevoir.
Gardevoir is a humanoid sylph-like, Pokémon. It stands just over five feet tall. The classical tutu-type skirt seen with Kirlia is now a long, flowing white gown that completely covers its legs, giving the appearance that it is floating. Gardevoir have long, slender, white legs underneath their gown. The inside of its gown is green in color. The red horns that were once on Kirlia and Ralts' head have moved down onto Gardevoir's chest and back. Most of its face is obscured by its green 'hair', with only some white, and its large pink eyes visible. It also has long, slender arms that are green like its hair.
Concept artwork of Mega Gardevoir.
Upon Mega Evolution , it turns almost completely white; only its hair remains green. Its gown becomes longer and wider, resembling a bridal gown. The forearms are slightly thicker with a pointed extension above the elbow resembling sleeves. Its facial spikes are larger and now curl upwards. In contrast, its hair is now shorter and more tightly curled. There are now two horns in the center of its chest, extending to either side.
The shiny version of Gardevoir has light blue "hair" and arms as opposed to light green, and its "horns" and eyes are orange instead of pink. When a Shiny Gardevoir undergoes Mega Evolution, its dress and sleeves turn black rather than white.
Gardevoir is famous for its loyalty; it will even sacrifice itself for its Trainer's sake. In the wild, Gardevoir live in groups and care for their young lovingly. Gardevoir are very wary of trusting strangers, but will develop the same loyalty they show to their trainers to those who show similar compassion and optimism.
Gardevoir are able to sense the feelings and emotions of Pokémon and people. One of its main abilities, though, is a kind of precognition, which allows it to sense the future. Additionally, it is able to create small black holes, distort dimensions, and support itself without feeling the pull of gravity. Gardevoir are said to protect their trusted Trainers at all costs, even sacrificing their own lives to keep their Trainers safe.
Mega Gardevoir's horns are said to be a physical manifestation of the Pokémon's heart, and it is able to use tremendous psychic power and pure fairy power now that it is open.
Gardevoir evolves from Kirlia starting at level 30 and is one of two final evolution of Ralts , the other being Gallade . Gardevoir can Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir using its Gardevoirite .
Gardevoir has the ability to read the future. If it senses impending danger to its Trainer, this Pokémon is said to unleash its psychokinetic energy at full power.
Gardevoir has the psychokinetic power to distort the dimensions and create a small black hole. This Pokémon will try to protect its Trainer even at the risk of its own life.
It has the power to predict the future. Its power peaks when it is protecting its Trainer.
It apparently does not feel the pull of gravity because it supports itself with psychic power. It will give its life to protect its Trainer.
It will try to guard its trusted Trainer with its life. It has the ability to see the future.
To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole.
It unleashes psychokinetic energy at full power when protecting a Trainer it has closely bonded with.
It will dedicate itself to defending a master it has come to adore. Its pure white dress, reminiscent of those worn by ladies of nobility, is the dress of one who is willing to risk their life.
It unleashes psychokinetic energy at full power when protecting a Trainer it has bonded closely with.
It has the power to predict the future. Its power peaks when it is protecting its Trainer. Mega Evolution : When it opens the red plate on its chest and unleashes its heart, its strongest psychic power is released.
Gardevoir appears to be based on a sylph -like creature or fairy . It is also a protector spirit, as it will give its own life to guard its trainer from danger. It might be loosely based on a guardian angel .
The name Gardevoir is likely derived from the French phrase garde de voir , which can be loosely translated as "guardian woman of sight", or "seeing". Its name can also come from "guardian angel" as it watches over its Trainer, protecting them. It may also derive from "guard" and devoir , a French word meaning "duty".
Flygon is a Pokémon that resembles a slightly insectoid, bipedal dragon. It is primarily light green and has a pair of large rhombus-shaped wings with red trim, toeless hind legs, and skinny arms with three-clawed hands. Flygon's tail has several dark green stripes and three small green rhombus shapes with red trims at the end. It has large eyes and a pair of dark green antennae that point back.
Their storms hide their locations from enemies, while their “singing” lures in prey. The red covers over their eyes protect their vision from abrasive sand, allowing them to navigate without hindrance. In popular myth, it is said that Flygon will appear to desert travelers in danger, particularly those being attacked by rogue bands of Pokémon or thieves. They will then whisk away the aggressors in sandstorms if the defending parties are not guilty of any wrongdoing themselves. Recent studies show that some Flygon engage in cooperative hunting with Krookodile; the Flygon whip up sandstorms to conceal the Krookodile , who ambush the hapless victim. The two then split the catch evenly.
Flygon can whip up sandstorms to protect itself, and it's said that the sandstorms can conceal a Krookodile . Its wings seem to be "singing" when they are flapped. As the only thing that can be heard in a sandstorm is its singing, Flygon is nicknamed "the Desert Spirit." Also, Flygon's eyes are protected by red membranes, preventing them from being affected by sandstorms.
Flygon evolves from Vibrava starting at level 45 and is the final evolution of Trapinch .
Flygon is nicknamed "the elemental spirit of the desert." Because its flapping wings whip up a cloud of sand, this Pokémon is always enveloped in a sandstorm while flying.
Flygon whips up a sandstorm by flapping its wings. The wings create a series of notes that sound like singing. Because the "singing" is the only thing that can be heard in a sandstorm, this Pokémon is said to be the desert spirit.
It hides itself by kicking up desert sand with its wings. Red covers shield its eyes from sand.
The flapping of its wings sounds like singing. To prevent detection by enemies, it hides itself by flapping up a cloud of desert sand.
It whips up sandstorms with powerful flaps of its wings. It is known as "The Desert Spirit."
It is nicknamed "The Desert Spirit" because the flapping of it's wings sounds like a woman singing.
Known as "The Desert Spirit" this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings.
Known as "The Desert Spirit," this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings.
Flygon is nicknamed “the elemental spirit of the desert.” Because its flapping wings whip up a cloud of sand, this Pokémon is always enveloped in a sandstorm while flying.
Flygon whips up a sandstorm by flapping its wings. The wings create a series of notes that sound like singing. Because the “singing” is the only thing that can be heard in a sandstorm, this Pokémon is said to be the desert spirit.
The flapping of its wings sounds something like singing. Those lured by the sound are enveloped in a sandstorm, becoming Flygon's prey.
This Pokémon hides in the heart of sandstorms it creates and seldom appears where people can see it.
By flapping their wings, Flygon cause sandstorms that conceal Krookodile. The team then splits the prey they catch.
People continue to have their hearts stolen by its enchanting songs and find themselves stranded in the desert.
It is nicknamed the Desert Spirit because the flapping of its wings sounds like a woman singing.
Known as the Desert Spirit, this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings.
The sound of its wings flapping resembles singing. Those entranced by this sound get lured into a sandstorm and become Flygon's prey.
It was briefly shown that Wally uses a Flygon that he received from Norman .
Flygon may be based on the lacewing , the adult form of an antlion . Its dragon type may come from a dragonfly , which have a similar appearance to a lacewing. It may also be a pun on the Progomphus , which is commonly called a "sanddragon". Its goggle-like eye lenses may reference weather goggles worn in sandstorms to keep sand out of ones eyes as well as possibly being based on the lens-like eyes of some insects. It also shares attributes with more traditional reptilian dragons.
Flygon may come from fly and dragon which can be reorganized to make dragonfly .
Milotic is an elegant, sinuous Pokémon that resembles a sea serpent or oarfish. Its body is predominantly cream in color, while its fanlike tail comes in various shades (particularly of blue and magenta), that change upon the viewing angle. It has long red "hair" and curled red eyebrows that embellish its crimson eyes. Milotic is thought to be one of the most beautiful Pokémon in the world.
A shiny Milotic has blue "hair" and the tail is colored with a gold/yellow and a red color.
Males have shorter "hair" and eyebrows.
Milotic usually appears when conflict arises to pacify and placate any rioter, calming their boiling hearts down through their beauty. The scales of its bodies can emit bright pink light and rainbow-like colors. They are also said to change color depending on the angle they are viewed at.
Milotic has the ability to calm rage and strife among people.
Milotic live at the bottom of large lakes.
Milotic evolves from Feebas if leveled up while having more than 170 Beauty points. Since Generation V , it evolves if traded while holding a Prism Scale .
Milotic is said to be the most beautiful of all Pokémon. It has the ability to becalm such emotions as hostility and anger to quell bitter feuding.
Milotic live at the bottom of large lakes. When this Pokémon's body glows a vivid pink, it releases a pulsing wave of energy that brings soothing calm to restless spirits.
Milotic is breathtakingly beautiful. Those that see it are said to forget their combative spirits.
It is said to live at the bottom of large lakes. Considered to be the most beautiful of all Pokémon, it has been depicted in paintings and statues.
When people bicker, it is said to arise from the depths of lakes to becalm violent hearts.
It is the world's most beautiful Pokémon. There are many works of art featuring Milotic.
Its lovely scales are described as rainbow colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle.
It's said that a glimpse of a Milotic and its beauty will calm any hostile emotions you are feeling.
Milotic is said to be the most beautiful of all the Pokémon. It has the power to becalm such emotions as anger and hostility to quell bitter feuding.
Milotic live at the bottom of large lakes. When this Pokémon's body glows a vivid pink, it releases a pulsing wave of energy that brings soothing calm to troubled hearts.
Milotic has provided inspiration to many artists. It has even been referred to as the most beautiful Pokémon of all.
It lives at the bottom of clear lakes. In times of war, it shows itself, which soothes people's mind and hearts.
While Milotic is said to be the most beautiful Pokémon, Trainers who like Feebas and have raised it are seemingly disappointed by Milotic.
Its dwelling place is the bottom of big lakes. Those who behold its loveliness are said to have their hearts purified.
It's said that a glimpse of a Milotic and its beauty will calm any hostile emotions you're feeling.
Its lovely scales are described as rainbow-colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle.
It lives at the bottom of clear lakes. In times of war, it shows itself, which soothes people's minds and hearts.
Milotic is based on a sea serpent . Its appearance, particularly its row of small rounded gill openings, resembles a lamprey. The skin-like tone of its upper half, colorful scale-patterned lower half, and red hair-like appendages also bear a likeness to a mermaid or siren . It may also be based on an oarfish , a long, snake-like oceanic fish with long, red fins.
Its English name, Milotic, is a combination of Milo (as in Venus de Milo which is often seen as a form of beauty) and either melodic , exotic , aquatic or lotic (a river area). This is also its German name; its Korean name, 밀로틱, [ Notes 1 ] its Russian name, Майлотик, and its current Hindi name, माइलोटिक, are transliterations of this name.
Salamence ( ボーマンダ , Boomanda ? ) ( SAL -uh-mence [1] ) is a Dragon / Flying - type Pseudo-Legendary Pokémon introduced in Generation III .
Concept art of Salamence.
Salamence is a blue and red dragon-like Pokémon with huge red wings and red eyebrows. It has large blue ears and its front and a pair of red wings that grew due to a sudden cell mutation. It is big enough that a Trainer could stand on its back.
Mega Salamence's wings are combined into a large crescent moon shape, allowing it to easily glide in the air. The underside of its belly now becomes a chest plate in which it "hides" its two front feet in. Its horns have become longer and sharper, its jaw is red, and its eyes are tinted yellow.
Having finally achieved its desire to fly, Salamence flies all over the sky and spouts hot flames that burns fields and mountains as a way to express its joy. It becomes uncontrollable and goes on a rampage when angered, and this does not stop until the Pokémon becomes tired.
They are in fact highly territorial, going on tremendous rampages when their territories are challenged. They are fierce rivals with Garchomp , whom they fight over their shares of prey in the wild.
Dubbed as the 'blood-soaked crescent', Mega Salamence's brutality has been dangerously enhanced, even attacking Trainers that have raised them.
Due to its powerful wings, Salamence demonstrates high endurance and supreme flight capabilities, able to traverse across different treacherous terrains without any issue. They can also breathe out fire and use their strong claws to destroy everywhere, and won't stop before their stamina runs out.
Although Mega Salamence's flight is improved by the power of Mega Evolution , its combined wings actually put pressure on its body, forcing it to keep flying as it destroys everything in its path.
Salamence evolves from Shelgon starting at level 50 and is the final evolution of Bagon . Salamence can Mega Evolve into Mega Salamence using its Salamencite .
Salamence came about as a result of a strong, long-held dream of growing wings. It is said that this powerful desire triggered a sudden mutation in this Pokémon's cells, causing it to sprout its magnificent wings.
By evolving into Salamence, this Pokémon finally realizes its long-held dream of growing wings. To express its joy, it flies and wheels all over the sky while spouting flames from its mouth .
It becomes uncontrollable if enraged. It destroys everything with shredding claws and fire.
After many long years, its cellular structure underwent a sudden mutation to grow wings. When angered, it loses all thought and rampages out of control .
As a result of its long-held dream of flying, its cellular structure changed, and wings grew out.
It's uncontrollable if enraged. It flies around spouting flames and scorching fields and mountains.
It becomes uncontrollable if it is enraged. It destroys everything with shredding claws and fire.
Salamence came about as a result of a strong, long-held dream of growing wings. It is said that this powerful desire triggered a sudden mutation in this Pokémon’s cells, causing it to sprout its magnificent wings.
By evolving into Salamence, this Pokémon finally realizes its long-held dream of growing wings. To express its joy, it flies and wheels all over the sky while spouting flames from its mouth.
When angered, it loses all sense of itself and destroys everything around it. The destruction will continue until Salamence has tired itself out. Mega Evolution : Anyone standing in its path gets sliced right in two, while this Pokémon continues its flight without interruption.
It flies around on its wings, which have grown in at last. In its happiness, it gushes hot flames, burning up the fields it passes over. Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution fuels its brutality, and it may even turn on the Trainer who raised it. It’s been dubbed “the blood-soaked crescent.”
Overjoyed at finally being able to fly, it flies all over the place and usually doesn’t land until it’s completely exhausted and needs to sleep. Mega Evolution : The stress of its two proud wings becoming misshapen and stuck together because of strong energy makes it go on a rampage.
Thanks to its fervent wishes, the cells in its body finally mutated, and at last it has its heart’s desire—wings. Mega Evolution : It puts its forelegs inside its shell to streamline itself for flight. Salamence flies at high speeds over all kinds of topographical features.
Salamence is an unusual Pokémon in that it was able to evolve a body with wings just by constantly wishing to be able to fly.
While basking in the joy of flight generally keeps this Pokémon in high spirits, Salamence turns into an uncontrollable menace if something angers it.
It flies around on its wings, which have grown in at last. In its happiness, it gushes hot flames, burning up everything it passes over.
It's uncontrollable if enraged. It flies around spouting flames, scorching fields and mountains. Mega Evolution : To streamline itself for flight, it pulls its forelegs into its shell. Salamence flies at high speeds even when faced with complex topographical features.
Salamence first appeared in anime in Jirachi: Wish Maker where it was used by Butler . Drake also had a Salamence. J 's Salamence appeared in Mutiny In The Bounty! .
Salamence is based on European dragons and possibly salamanders . Its coloration and wing shape may be inspired by Welsh dragon and the character Devilman , a superhero from the 70s. Its Mega Evolved form also resembles a fighter jet .
Salamence might be also inspired by the dragons of the 2002 film Reign of Fire ; Salamence's debut was in 2002, and Salamence's Japanese name "Bohmander" was based on Salamander where the Japanese title of the Reign of Fire was the Salamander ( サラマンダー ), and Salamence's facial characteristics bear several remembrances to that of dragons in the Reign of Fire including crests above eyes akin to that of the male dragon and horizontal horns along the heads akin to that of both male and female dragons. Salamence isn't a Fire type, being somewhat similar to the dragons in the Reign of Fire don't breath fire itself.
Salamence is a combination of salamander , immense and menace .
Concept artwork of Metagross.
Metagross resembles a robotic spider. It has a light blue disc-shaped body with two red eyes and a large X in the center of its face. Each of its four legs is outfitted with three short claws.
Concept artwork of Mega Metagross.
Mega Metagross is a result of one Metagross, one Metang and two Beldum linked up. When it Mega Evolves, it undergoes some drastic changes in its appearance. It now levitates in the air, and its four legs are now converted into arms. A spike is attached to its lower jaw. Its arm claws are longer and the X on its face is gold-colored. Four smaller legs are moved backward as well.
Metagross is made up of two Metang that fused together. It has four brains which are all linked together as one by a complex neural network with the intelligence to solve highly complex equations faster than a super-computer. Metagross uses its large and heavy bulk to pin down prey. It is one of the few Pokémon capable of Mega Evolution.
Because its magnetic powers are fully enhanced and strengthened in colder temperatures, Metagross becomes more energetic while living in snowy mountains. It uses its psychic abilities to defeat its enemies.
When Mega Evolving, Metagross becomes even more ruthless, using various tactics to ensure a victory. If it cannot win, Mega Metagross takes its opponent with it in a humongous explosion. Its claws are stronger and tougher, capable of smashing through rock.
In the game, Metagross has the ability Clear Body , which prevents any of its stats from being lowered. When it Mega Evolves, Metagross gains the ability Tough Claws , which boosts the power of contact moves.
Metagross evolves from Metang starting at level 45 and is the final evolution of Beldum . Metagross can Mega Evolve into Mega Metagross when using its Metagrossite .
Metagross has four brains in total. Combined, the four brains can breeze through difficult calculations faster than a supercomputer. This Pokémon can float in the air by tucking in its four legs.
Metagross is the result of two Metang achieving fusion. When hunting, this Pokémon pins the prey to the ground under its massive body. It then eats the helpless victim using the large mouth on its stomach.
It is formed by two Metang fusing. Its four brains are said to be superior to a supercomputer.
Metagross has four brains that are joined by a complex neural network. As a result of integration, this Pokémon is smarter than a supercomputer.
Metang combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer.
It folds its four legs when flying. Its four brains are said to be superior to a supercomputer.
With four linked brains, it's more intelligent than a supercomputer, and it uses calculations to analyze foes.
It firmly pins its prey using its four claws and large body. Then the teeth in the mouth on its stomach chew the prey to bits. Mega Evolution : This form results from one Metagross, one Metang, and two Beldum linking up.
A linkage of two Metang, this Pokémon can perform any calculation in a flash by utilizing parallel processing in its four brains. Mega Evolution : Mega Evolution stimulated its brain. It emerged as a ruthless Pokémon that will clutch at any means of ensuring its victories.
It boasts not only psychic powers but also fantastic strength. It grabs its prey with its four legs and holds them in place with its claws. Mega Evolution : Its intellect surpasses its previous level, resulting in battles so cruel, they’ll make you want to cover your eyes.
It analyzes its opponents with more accuracy than a supercomputer, which enables it to calmly back them into a corner. Mega Evolution : When it knows it can’t win, it digs the claws on its legs into its opponent and starts the countdown to a big explosion.
Because the magnetic powers of these Pokémon get stronger in freezing temperatures, Metagross living on snowy mountains are full of energy.
Metagross is the result of the fusion of two Metang. This Pokémon defeats its opponents through use of its supercomputer-level brain.
It firmly pins its prey using its four claws and large body. Then Metagross uses the mouth on its stomach to chew its prey to bits.
Metang combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer. Mega Evolution : This form results from one Metagross, one Metang, and two Beldum linking up.
Metagross is likely based on a robot with some elements of a spider or crab and a supercomputer . Its ability to fly with legs tucked on all sides might be similar to a UFO . Metagross might also be based on a moon lander . Metagross's Sword Pokédex entry stating how Metagross itself becomes more energetic in colder climates may reflect on how certain metals become superconductors under cold temperatures.
Metagross' name may be derived from the word metal and the French word gros , which means "big". It may also come from cross , due to its big cross on its face or its stern, angry expression. It could also include gross (a large amount) and meta (beyond), thus making meta-gross (beyond a large amount).
Latias is a dragon-like Pokémon with features resembling a jet plane. The upper portion of its body is mainly white, while the lower portion is red. It has triangular ears, and a patch of red with a smaller patch of white, on its face. On its back are two jet plane-like wings, and lower down are two fins or flaps for feet. It has red and white arms, that are able to be retracted into its body. On Latias' chest is a light blue triangle symbol. It has large yellow eyes too.
In Mega form, Latias has purple skin tone, with the same yellow eyes. [2]
Latias has the ability Levitate . This ability allows it to be immune to ground-type attacks, as well as Toxic Spikes . Latias is a highly intelligent Pokémon, able to understand human speech and communicate telepathically. Using a glass-like down, Latias can reflect light to alter its appearance. Latias is also the only known Pokémon who is able to learn the move Mist Ball .
Mega Latias with Mega Latios in the anime
Latias does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Latias using its Latiasite .
Latias sign
You are awoken by a loud noise. You go outside to investigate, only to get rammed by Latios. The next morning, you go to Town Square where purple Kecleon is raising a fuss. All his TMs were robbed overnight. You go to the dungeon where Latios is keeping the TMs. After you defeat Latios, he comes back with you to return the TMs and to say he's sorry. When you get back to town Latios reveals the battle with you put a lot of damage on him. Purple Kecleon tries to punish him for stealing the TMs. Alakazam stops him and lets Latios explain why he would steal the TMs. Latios explains that he and his younger and beloved sister, Latias, were having a flight one day, when Latias got hit by a meteorite on her wing, and she fell into a giant chasm. Latios explains that he tried to save her, but the dungeon proved to be to much for him. So he stole the TMs to try and get stronger. Purple Kecleon stops being angry and understands why he did what he did, and forgives Latios.
You then go on a mission to rescue Latias, since Latios is still in bad shape and must rest in town. Once you make it through the dungeon, Latias hears your footsteps as you approach. She tells you that her wing still hurts, but she's okay. You and Latias warp back to the town. Latias and Latios, happy to be together again, cross their necks in happiness. Green Kecleon sobs of seeing so much happiness. As thanks, they ask if they can join your team.
In the game if you choose a female player character (aka Summer), the Pokémon Pinchers will hunt Latias. One of the Guardian Signs is a sign to call Latias. This becomes your transportation for the game, besides Staraptor .
Latias is highly sensitive to the emotions of people. If it senses any hostility, this Pokémon ruffles the feathers all over its body and cries shrilly to intimidate the foe.
Latias is highly intelligent and capable of understanding human speech. It is covered with a glass-like down. The Pokémon enfolds its body with its down and refracts light to alter its appearance.
It can telepathically communicate with people. It changes its appearance using its down that refracts light.
They make a small herd of only several members. They rarely make contact with people or other Pokémon. They disappear if they sense enemies.
It possesses the ability to make itself invisible by wrapping its entire body in light refracted by its feathers.
Its body is covered with a down that can refract light in such a way that it becomes invisible.
It communicates using telepathy. Its body is covered in down that refracts light to make it invisible.
Its body is covered in a down that can refract light in such a way that it becomes invisible.
It communicates its feelings using telepathy. To make itself invisible, it covers its body in down that refracts light. Mega Evolution : Both its flying capabilities and its attack power have increased. It scatters transparent down to confuse its enemies.
Latias had a large role in Pokémon Heroes . In the movie, Ash and company help Latias to save her brother, Latios , from Team Rocket agents Annie and Oakley . This Latias also took a special liking to Ash, going so far as to give him a kiss at the end while in human form (it is unknown if she or Bianca kissed him). Pokémon Heroes is a Generation II movie.
A different Latias appeared under the ownership of Nurse Joy who used the legendary Pokémon to battle and defeat Forrest's Rhyperior .
Latias, along with Latios, have appeared in the 18th movie and Mega Evolved.
Another different Latias appeared where Ash encountered her after she crash-landed into a lake during his travels. But after saving her from Team Rocket while helping her to recover, she began following him whilst being invisible.
Latias is based on jets , European dragons , birds , and possibly the concept of yin . Its regular color scheme and jetlike shape may be derived from the Transformers character Jetfire .
Mega Latias is now to be based on a wyvern and somewhat resembles an Arwing, the spaceships used by the members of the eponymous paramilitary group in Nintendo's Star Fox series.
Latias comes from "latere" ("to lie hidden" in Latin). The "as" is added to indicate femininity. It may also involve "lass'", Scottish term for girl or young woman.
Latios looks similar to Latias , though it is blue and a bit larger; it is also similar to Lugia . Latios has an upside-down, white teardrop shape in the center of its blue face. In the middle of its chest, Latios has a red triangle, much like Latias', whose is blue, showing in some way they are related. In the movie Pokémon Heroes , Latios and Latias both serve as guardians. In Mega form, Latios is purple.
Latios comes with the ability Levitate, which causes Ground-type moves to always miss except the move Sand Attack . Latios is able to fold in its arms and fly at the speed of a jet. It can also make foes see images it has seen or what it imagines in its head. It can understand human speech and be able to communicate with telepathy. Even if it is hiding, Latios can detect the locations and emotions of others using telepathy. Latios can also refract light around itself to make it appear invisible unless the light strikes it just right. Latios is the only known Pokémon that learns Luster Purge .
In the movie Pokémon Heroes , Latias and Latios also had the ability "Sight Sharing" which allowed Latias and people around her to see exactly what Latios is seeing and vice versa.
Mega Latios with and Mega Latias in the anime
Latios does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Latios using its Latiosite .
If you choose a male player character (aka Ben), the Pokémon Pinchers hunt Latios. One of the Guardian Signs is a sign to call Latios. This is your transportation for the game, besides Staraptor .
Latios has the ability to make its foe see an image of what it has seen or imagines in its head. This Pokémon is intelligent and understands human speech.
Latios will only open its heart to a Trainer with a compassionate spirit. This Pokémon can fly faster than a jet plane by folding its forelegs to minimize air resistance.
It has a docile temperament and dislikes fighting. Tucking in its forelegs, it can fly faster than a jet plane.
Even in hiding, it can detect the locations of others and sense their emotions since it has telepathy. Its intelligence allows it to understand human languages.
A highly intelligent Pokémon. By folding back its wings in flight, it can overtake jet planes.
It understands human speech and is highly intelligent. It is a tender Pokémon that dislikes fighting.
Latios has the ability to make others see an image of what it has seen or imagines in its head. This Pokémon is intelligent and understands human speech.
It is a highly intelligent Pokémon. By folding back its forelegs in flight, it can overtake jet planes.
It understands human speech and is highly intelligent. It is a tender Pokémon that dislikes fighting. Mega Evolution : It flies at speeds exceeding Mach 4. It is among the top tier of all Pokémon in terms of aerial combat capability.
Latios debuted with his sister Latias in Pokémon Heroes . Annie and Oakley captured Latios and used his DNA along with the stolen Soul Dew to power the Defense Mechanism in the museum of Alto Mare . Latios ended up sacrificing himself to save Alto Mare from an enormous tidal wave.
A Latios owned by Tobias was used in The Semi-Final Frontier! in the semi-finals of the Sinnoh League, where he defeated Ash's Sceptile and Swellow and tied with Pikachu .
Latios, along with Latias, have appeared in the 18th movie and Mega Evolved.
Latios is based on jets , European dragons , birds , and possibly the concept of yang . Their curious, intelligent, and playful natures as well as their shape resemble that of dolphins .
Mega Latios is now to be based on a wyvern and somewhat resembles an Arwing, the spaceships used by the members of the eponymous paramilitary group in Nintendo's Star Fox series.
Latios comes from "latere" ("to lie hidden" in Latin). The "os" is added to indicate masculinity.
It is Groudon 's rival and is a member of the Weather Trio along with Groudon and Rayquaza .
Kyogre is a giant, dark blue cetacean Pokémon resembling an orca. It has two large fins or "wings", each ending with four square-shaped "claws". It has a deep blue body and a white chin area with two spikes protruding under it. Above each eye are two white spots. It has markings on its wings which sort of resemble the letter A with a circle on the top. It also has two small dorsal fins on its back with two stripes running horizontally below the fins. The tail seems tattered with four trails, the inner smaller than the outer. It also has a mouth full of rarely seen sharp triangular teeth.
Concept artwork of Primal Kyogre.
As Primal Kyogre, it is more than twice its usual size and has a deeper blue body, as well as having a partially translucent body with a golden light glowing from within it, essentially emitting bioluminescence. It has light blue stripes on its body, instead of the usual red. The four tips on both of its large fins remain pure white. The usually opaque middle parts of its large fins become transparent, with red marks on the closer two tips of both its fins that resembles the letter H. The two outer red marks on each of its fins, along with the large circular marks in the center of the fins, turn blue and fuse together to become Alpha symbols. Its four white oval spots, and the part of the top center of its head have a circular marking, where the lines are linked to upper end of the larger oval spots, now also transparent, and they stop at the end of its tattered tail, where the middle of the four trailing parts have the same color as the glow on the majority of its body.
Kyogre does not evolve , but can of undergoing Primal Reversion and become Primal Kyogre in battle if it holds the Blue Orb .
In Pokémon SoulSilver Version , trading Kyogre over and showing both it and Groudon to Professor Oak allows the player to catch Rayquaza .
Kyogre first appeared in the anime in Gaining Groudon , and The Scuffle of Legends! , debuting with Groudon as well. Team Magma and Team Aqua were competing to gain both legendaries. Team Aqua , as it turned out, tricked Magma leader, Maxie by taking Kyogre even after they had Groudon . Kyogre also made an appearance in the ninth Pokémon movie, Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea where it was kind of like Manaphy 's "steed".
Kyogre is most likely based on an orca (a marine apex predator) with inspiration from sea gods. It may also be based on the Leviathan , a mythical beast described in Abrahamic religion as the "master of the seas".
Kyogre's name originates from the Japanese word Kai , which means ocean. Kyogre's name ends in ogre , due to it being large. Without the "Ogre" part, it spells out Kaiō , which means King of the Sea . Also, Kaiō is the first four letters of the word Kaiōsei which means the planet Neptune , named for the Roman version of the Greek god of the sea, Poseidon . It may also incorporate "orca".
It is a member of the Weather Trio along with Kyogre and Rayquaza .
Groudon is a red, black, gray, and white Pokémon with yellow eyes. It has white spikes on its tail and neck. It has white, sharp claws on both its hand and it also has white toes. It has a grayish underbelly. It has a large tail with three sharp, white spikes appearing on the left hand side and right hand side of its tail. A black pattern also goes along its body.
Groudon is an immensely powerful Pokémon, having the ability to summon intense droughts and cause volcanic eruptions. The droughts it can cause allow it to evaporate water, while the volcanic eruptions it can summon enable it to create land. It sleeps underground in large magma chambers. If it encounters its rival, Kyogre, they will engage in a cataclysmic battle. Groudon is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the move Precipice Blades .
As Primal Groudon, it becomes larger and has a deep, crimson body. The spikes on both sides of its body, tail, jagged teeth and underbelly are black, with the spikes on the tail becoming longer and facing diagonally, instead of being straight. The four blades at the end of its tail are now split. Its sharp claws on its hands and its claws on its feet remain pure white. Both of Primal Groudon's hands bear an Omega symbol on them. The markings, some of which extend to its underbelly on its body and the Omega symbols it bears, glow bright yellow, as if lava is flowing inside of it, including the inside of its mouth and around its eyes, which changes to an orange-red color. In the anime, Primal Groudon is said to create new land with every step it takes.
Groudon does not evolve , but can of undergoing Primal Reversion and become Primal Groudon in battle if it holds the Red Orb .
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team , Groudon appears as one of the main villains. After the hero, the partner, and the Alakazam 's Team discovered the truth about Ninetales' Legend, he causes an earthquake and, later in the game, the hero and the partner have to go to the deep of Magma Cavern to save Alakazam's Team, defeating Groudon. After his defeat, he can be recruitable to the Rescue Team. He has a minor appearance in the next game, when he appears as an illusion created by Uxie . It is one of the heaviest Pokémon, as can be observed in the Hoenn Pokédex .
In Pokémon Rumble Blast , Groudon can be encountered if the launch pad leading to the boss fight is shining, which has roughly only a five percent chance of doing so, but only if the main story has been finished.
Groudon had a fight with Kyogre at the place where Kyogre slept. Groudon appeared in Pokémon the Series in " Gaining Groudon " and " The Scuffle of Legends ", debuting with Kyogre as well. Team Magma and Team Aqua were competing to gain both legendaries. Team Aqua, as it turned out, tricked Magma leader Maxie by taking Kyogre even after they had Groudon. Ash's Pikachu then shocked Groudon's cargo container and released it to fight against a rampaging Kyogre .
A false one also appeared in the sixth film, Pokémon: Jirachi, Wish Maker , which a Team Magma scientist tried to create. When the experiment failed, a massive Groudon-like monster was created, False Groudon , who is several times larger with tentacle-like appendages protruding from its back.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl , Groudon is one of the Pokémon that can be freed from a Poké Ball . During this time, it uses the move Overheat . Groudon will on the screen as a very large Pokémon and will glow a red color making it a fire attacker. It will be completely invincible and will launch any fighter away from it except the one who uses it, and because of this, it can be used as somewhat of a shield. Groudon will not attack, but will turn around and roar. Groudon does not return as a Poké Ball Pokémon in later installments.
Groudon is one of the collectable spirits in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate .
Groudon may be modeled after the Earth's land and volcanoes and may be based on the Hebrew legends of Behemoth , the unconquerable primal master of the land. Its counterparts were Leviathan and Ziz . Just as Groudon is in conflict with Kyogre, it was said that at the end of time, Behemoth and Leviathan would start a battle that would kill them both.
However, the Behemoth is usually depicted as a warthog / hippopotamus -like creature; in the same way, Kyogre is not based on traditional depictions of the Leviathan. Instead, Groudon resembles a theropod dinosaur in appearance, with spikes resembling various species of Ankylosauria . Groudon also seems to take inspiration from land and fire gods.
Groudon may be a combination of ground and don (Spanish for lord ). Don also means tooth in Ancient Greek and is commonly used in dinosaur names, which Groudon somewhat resembles. It may also involve 土 do (ground) or ドン don (onomatopoeia for a very loud crashing noise).
It is a member of the Weather Trio , along with Kyogre and Groudon .
Concept artwork of Rayquaza
Rayquaza is a long, green, serpentine Pokémon with yellow eyes. It has pink lining in the mouth. It has yellow, linked, circular markings down its entire body. In Mega form, it has a Delta-shaped jaw on its mouth, yellow energy "ribbons", and an elongated serpent body. As Mega Rayquaza, it is more aggressive and powerful. Shiny Rayquaza is black instead of green.
As a natural ability, Rayquaza can float and control the speed, direction and altitude of its levitation. Despite not having used any of these characteristics in battle throughout its appearances in the anime, all Rayquaza have sharp claws on their hands, sharp teeth and a powerful constrictor body. It's not known if Mega Rayquaza can use its energy whips/tentacles as weapons or if they are simply regular body parts. Naturally, given it can travel through the ozone layer safely and even higher layers of Earth's atmosphere, it demands very little air to live and possibly none. If none, it could possibly travel through space, since the layer that intermediates the Ozone layer and the troposphere can hit -60 °C or -76 F. If the belief that Rayquaza is responsible for destroying meteors still in the higher atmospheric layers is true, it would have to be able to endure temperatures that can reach -100 °C, or even -148 F. It shows that Rayquaza have a great resistance to cold, which is ironic since it has double weakness to Ice typing. Despite its resistance, it is not known if Rayquaza can endure the -270 °C or -454 F of the absolute vacuum of space.
Rayquaza is known to eat meteoroids in the sky. Due to its nature of absorbing ozone layer particles, if Rayquaza is in the Alola region, it is a direct predator of Minior , should the latter Pokémon die in its core form and become one with the universe, its absorbed particles left behind for Rayquaza to feed on. Rayquaza has an organ, nicknamed the mikado organ by a Devon Corporation employee, that stores energy gained from eating meteoroids which allows it to Mega Evolve without the need of a Mega Stone.
Rayquaza seems to be a very aggressive and territorial Pokémon, shown when it attacked a Deoxys . Yet, its aggression toward Deoxys could derive from the belief that Rayquaza is commissioned with the natural duty of shielding Earth from meteorites and similar threats, as was hinted in the Delta Episode of Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire .
In the Hoenn region's mythology, it was said that Rayquaza stopped the fight between Groudon and Kyogre . It lives in the ozone layer far above the clouds and cannot be seen from the ground. It is noted for protecting its territory fiercely. An example of this was when a Deoxys , which had fallen from space in a meteor, appeared, Rayquaza thought that Deoxys was invading its territory and attacked it.
Mega Rayquaza
Rayquaza does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Rayquaza after learning the move Dragon Ascent . Mega Rayquaza is much stronger, with an increased jaw size and flame-like trails.
Rayquaza first appears in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version . In 2005, it was made the version mascot of its paired game, Pokémon Emerald Version . In all three games, Rayquaza can only be obtained at the Sky Pillar . In Pokémon Emerald Version only, it is possible to catch after the eighth Gym (for Pokémon Emerald Version ), which can allow for an easy victory against the Elite Four .
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Red Rescue Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team , Rayquaza plays a key role in the story. Xatu warns all of the Pokémon in Pokémon Square that a large star is falling and is going to destroy the planet and says that the only way to get rid of it is to ask Rayquaza to destroy it. The main character must use Xatu's teleporting stone to reach the Sky Tower , where Rayquaza dwells. When the main character meets Rayquaza, it is extremely enraged to see that Pokémon from the ground have come "where they are not supposed to be". When the player beats Rayquaza, it will realize its mistake. The star that will destroy the planet is coming near, so Rayquaza blasts it with its Hyper Beam. The blast is so overwhelming that the main character and his partner fall off the top of Sky Tower.
Rayquaza makes its debut in the 7th movie MS007: Pokémon: Destiny Deoxys . Like all other Legendary Pokémon, Rayquaza is a truly powerful Pokémon. Four years before the main movie, Rayquaza had fought against Deoxys because it thought the Pokémon was invading its territory when the meteorite Deoxys used for travel landed on the earth. Rayquaza has also made its cameo appearance as in the beginning of the 9th move MS009: Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea , but as having become the Team Rocket agents' stolen and unethically experimented victim. It is unknown whether or not it has remained at or escaped from the Team Rocket base.
When Iris was leaving Blackthorn City with Axew and her newly captured Gible , she spotted Rayquaza flying through the clouds in the sky. A Shiny Rayquaza also appears in MS018: Pokémon the Movie: Hoopa and the Clash of Ages as an ally of Hoopa and Ash against Hoopa Unbound, while another appears in the Mega Evolu tion Specials .
Rayquaza is the second main boss of the Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary of Super Smash Bros. Brawl . It is also the only Pokémon boss. Diddy Kong runs to find help for Donkey Kong before coming across a large lake. He notices a destroyed Arwing nearby, and goes to investigate. Rayquaza appears out of the lake (instead of its usual dwelling space within the sky), angry that Diddy trespassed into its territory. It grabs Diddy, but Fox emerges from the Arwing and uses Fox Illusion to free Diddy Kong from Rayquaza's grasp. The two quickly team up and defeat Rayquaza. Rayquaza is the only boss of The Subspace Emissary who is fought by a group that does not include any other characters from its own series.
Rayquaza appears later in The Great Maza , as one of the eight bosses the player must face before completing the adventure.
Rayquaza, like all other bosses, also appears in the Boss Battles mode. Rayquaza is one of the ten bosses that the player must fight.
Rayquaza is based on an East Asian dragon with elements of the Ziz from Abrahamic religion (as both are described as being masters of the sky) and the Aztec wind god Quetzalcōātl , who was often portrayed as a feathered serpent.
Rayquaza (its katakana being read Rekkūza ) may be a portmanteau of 裂空 rekkū , meaning "splitting sky" and 座 ( za , meaning seat, but also used as a suffix for constellations). Based on its official romanization, which is also its official name in languages using the Latin alphabet, it may also include "ray" (referring to the cosmic radiation it would likely be exposed to in its ozone layer habitat), "quasar" (the most distant celestial objects observed thus far, often theorized to be galaxies emitting high levels of radiation), and possibly "raqiya" (a Hebrew word that literally means "expanse," but has been used to mean "sky").
Concept artwork of Jirachi.
Jirachi is a small and light Pokémon reminiscent of a shooting star. The lower part of Jirachi's body is white, although its yellow head makes up a large part of its body, bearing the shape of a three-pointed star, one of which points upwards and two of which protrude to the sides. A turquoise strip of paper hanging at the tip of all three points of Jirachi's head, serving as notes on which wishes can be written.
Jirachi with its hidden eye opened.
It has large, black eyes with blue stripes running down them, resembling tears. Jirachi has a hidden eye on its stomach that is normally closed and only visible as a semicircular line, although if the eye opens, one can see a yellow sclera with a green iris in the middle. Jirachi also has two small but wide arms and two long, yellow wings that resemble the ends of a gift bow.
In its Shiny form, Jirachi's white body and face are shaded reddish, and the strips of paper at the tips of its head are red.
Like most Mythical Pokémon , Jirachi's statistics are above average, having a higher Attack , Defense , and Speed . Jirachi can fight opponents while it is sleeping, using mainly Psychic -type moves. Jirachi can use physical moves such as Zen Headbutt and special moves such as Psychic and Future Sight .
The Pokémon simply sleeps most of its life, collecting wishes on its notes during this time, and only wakes up every thousand years to then grant people's wishes. This is reflected in battle by two attacks that are characteristic of Jirachi. Firstly, it has the normal attack Wish , which it can use to heal itself or a switched-in Pokémon from its team, and secondly its signature move Doom Desire , which involves it making a wish and then inflicting damage to the target after two turns.
Jirachi's Ability , Serene Grace , doubles the chance of a move's secondary effect occurring, therefore increasing the chance of a status condition .
Jirachi is said to fulfill a desire to people who really need it, and will appear when one least expects. Jirachi is always sleeping and awakens only once a week every millennium. Though, if possible, if it is captured by a Trainer, it will be awake longer than a week but will still fall asleep if needing to recharge its energy. While it sleeps, a tough crystalline shell envelops the body to protect it from enemies, and if it senses danger, it will attack to defend itself without actually waking up. When awakened, Jirachi is a calm, happy and playful Pokémon.
Jirachi does not evolve .
In nearly every game in the core series , Jirachi can be obtained only through official events hosted in real life. Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version and Pokémon Platinum Version had several events that provided the opportunity to obtain Jirachi legitimately, such as at GameStop stores from February to March 2010, where it is contained in a Cherish Ball and knows its signature move , Draco Meteor .
In celebration of Pokémon's 20th Anniversary, a Jirachi was available as a Mystery Gift by connecting to the internet on Pokémon X and Pokémon Y or Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire from April 1 to 24, 2016.
Jirachi is the title character in Pokémon: Jirachi, Wish Maker . It awakens every 1000 years when the Millennium Comet appears in the night sky. Upon awakening, it became close friends with Max and his friends. Feeling somewhat homesick, Jirachi and its new friends journeyed to its home to put it back to sleep. It has the ability to speak through telepathy. This Jirachi appears briefly in the introduction of Pokémon: The Rise of Darkrai , in a tribute to all previous nine Pokémon films .
It also made an appearance in " Searching for a Wish! " to help grant Gemma 's wish for a lush a fertile mountain.
Jirachi also made a cameo appearance in the ending credits in " Meloetta's Moonlight Serenade ".
In Pokémon Channel , Jirachi appears on the night of the sixth day, an event that can occur after obtaining the missing fifth part of " Pichu Bros. in Party Panic! ." Professor Oak notices that Jirachi has arrived at the player's house , shocking him. Jirachi goes with the player and their Pikachu to Camp Starlight, where they use the Star Projector that Oak had provided to project the complete Pichu Brothers episode and " Meowth's Party " for everyone to see. Furthermore, in European and Australian releases only, the event allows the player to download a Jirachi to a copy of Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version . Unlike other real-world events by Nintendo , it's still available today due to itself not being restricted by a time-limit.
In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon , Jirachi is referred to as a male. He fills a main role in the game, as the observer and astral carthographist of the Expedition Society , keeping in check the bodies in space to note any anomalies. Jirachi is close friends with Celebi and tries to take the player and its partner Pokémon to the rising Tree of Life , near the end of the game.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl , Jirachi is one of the Pokémon that can be freed from Poké Balls . It uses the move Fly and leaves behind Stickers , a collectable item in the game, while it flies away. However, Jirachi is unable to learn Fly in any form of main game. In Generation III however, Jirachi can learn Mimic and can mimic Fly and/or can learn Metronome and use it to pull out Fly.
Jirachi is one of the collectable spirits in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate .
Jirachi is based on the idea of wishing upon a star or meteor, with some elements of genies. The paper tags on Jirachi's head refer to the tanzaku, strips of paper in the Japanese holiday Tanabata (also known as the Star Festival) on which people write wishes and attach them to bamboo plants. The period of time Jirachi is awake may also reference Tanabata, as Jirachi is only awake for seven days and Tanabata takes place on the seventh day of the seventh lunar month. Its Steel typing may be in reference to iron meteors. In keeping with the Abrahamic religion theme several Hoenn Pokémon have, Jirachi may also be based on the Star of Bethlehem .
Jirachi derives from желать zhelat (Russian for wish ), 幸 sachi (wish, happiness, or fortune), genie, and jireh (Hebrew for "provider").
Deoxys is an alien-like bipedal Pokémon that has four Forms, each focused on a different stat. The main components that are constant for all four Forms are a dominant reddish-orange color, a greenish-blue face, and three greenish-blue dots on its back arranged in a triangle. Typically, there is a purple stripe running down the center of its face and a purple, crystalline organ in its chest. Its white, circular eyes are set inside rectangular, black eye sockets. It is shown in the anime, that Deoxys may have a green crystalline organ and facial stripe.
In its Normal Form, Deoxys has tapering legs with a segmented, vertical, blue stripe on the upper portion. The abdomen is black with vertical lines, while the majority of its skin is reddish-orange. The arms are capable of taking different forms, usually a pair of tentacles coiled in a double helix. One tentacle is the primarily skin color, while the other is light blue. Alternately, it can form more humanoid arms with a red top and blue underside and a five-fingered hand. This Form has a blunt protrusion with a single blue stripe on either side of its head and stubby tail.
While in its Attack Form, its legs remain tapered. However, its blue stripes are no longer segmented and run the entire length of the leg and there is now a large spike on the knee. Two pairs of whip-like tentacles with pointed tips, one reddish-orange and one blue, replace its previous coiled, blunted tentacles. The protrusions on its head are now triangular with an additional one extending from the top of its head. Most of its reddish-orange skin has receded, revealing a striated, black chest and abdomen. Finally, its tail is now longer and more pointed.
Deoxys's Defense Form has bulky, wide legs that are somewhat flat at the end with a bluish-green spot on each knee. It retains its two pairs of red and blue tentacles, but they are now flat and broad. The head has fused with its body and all protrusions are gone, causing it to resemble a helmet. The reddish-orange skin now covers the entire body, so none of its inner black portion is visible. There is now a single blue stripe on each shoulder, and its tail has disappeared.
The Speed Form of this Pokémon has a sleek black body with thin striation. The reddish-orange skin now covers only its head, hip joints, and the area around its crystal. There is now only one tentacle on each side of its body, one red and one blue. The protrusions on its head now point upward and the back of its head now forms a long spike. There is a long, thick blue stripe running down the center of this longer protrusion. More blue stripes appear on either hip joint and on its legs.
For a creature of pure logic and stoicism, Deoxys has quite a unique nature. Some can say it is vengeful, for it's rivalry with Rayquaza has been highlighted a few times throughout the series. However, despite being alien in origin, Deoxys like all other Pokémon can be befriended given time.
Deoxys can change its form to adapt and dominant in the Speed, Defense, or Attack stats though it is usually caught with normal stats at first; the stats of the normal form are still extremely unbalanced, as the two Attack stats and the Speed stat are much higher than the Defense or HP stats. Deoxys is a very intelligent extraterrestrial creature, who travels to other worlds inside of a meteor. Very little is known of its origins, other than it is a mutation of an alien virus that was exposed to a mysterious laser. Deoxys also seems to be able to regenerate lost appendages via it's arms, and shown to have the ability to make far weaker copies of itself.
Deoxys does not evolve .
The DNA of a space virus underwent a sudden mutation upon exposure to a laser beam and resulted in Deoxys. The crystalline organ on this Pokémon's chest appears to be its brain.
Deoxys emerged from a virus that came from space. It is highly intelligent and wields psychokinetic powers. This Pokémon shoots lasers from the crystalline organ on its chest.
This Deoxys has transformed into its aggressive guise. It can fool enemies by altering its appearance.
When it changes form, an aurora appears. It absorbs attacks by altering its cellular structure.
A Pokémon that mutated from an extraterrestrial virus exposed to a laser beam. Its body is configured for superior agility and speed.
An alien virus that fell to earth on a meteor underwent a DNA mutation to become this Pokémon.
DNA from a space virus mutated and became a Pokémon. It appears where auroras are seen.
The DNA of a space virus underwent a sudden mutation upon exposure to a laser beam and resulted in Deoxys. The crystalline organ on this Pokémon’s chest appears to be its brain.
Deoxys appeared in the episodes " Pokémon Ranger—Deoxys' Crisis! Part 1 " and " Pokémon Ranger—Deoxys' Crisis! Part 2 ".
Another Deoxys appeared in the episode " Cheers on Castaways Isle! ", where it transformed into a stone after being struck by a thunderbolt. Near the end, it transformed back into Deoxys and protected Ash, Brock, Dawn, the Corphish, and the Mantyke from the meteors that dropped down as it attacked Jessie's Yanmega.
Deoxys appeared in the movie Destiny Deoxys where the purple one tried to free the green egg trapped on the meteorite, however it was attacked by Rayquaza after being mistaken as an intruder for trespassing in its territory. They eventually had a duel somewhere in the arctic where a group of researchers witness the fierce battle between the two, as Deoxys was about to attack, the electrical surge shielded Rayquaza from its vision, giving Rayquaza the opportunity to regain strength, finally Rayquaza manage to defeat Deoxys and fly back into space, while the green egg in the meteorite was brought along by the researchers.
Four years later, the purple Deoxys had fully healed and track down its friend to LaRousse City, it causes a blackout to the entire city and remove all of the city's inhabitants in order to fulfill its search for its friend, however Rayquaza sensed its presence and headed to LaRousse City, Deoxys created a shield around the city, but Rayquaza found a way in and defeated all of the Deoxys clones. Ash and the others were able to provide enough amount of energy to revive the green egg, which hatched into the green Deoxys. The green Deoxys tried to stop the conflict, however the city's security system became haywire and attacked Rayquaza, the two Deoxys helped to defend Rayquaza, however they were overrun by the security robots, luckily Ash was able to deactivate the robot leader using the ID card, Rayquaza now convinced that they weren't intruders flies back to space, the Deoxys bids a farewell to everyone and leaves for space.
Deoxys is based on a DNA molecule, common depictions of aliens, and a chromosome. Its backstory may come from panspermia, the idea that life on earth came from chemicals or microbes that came to Earth through meteors. It may also be a reference to The Andromeda Strain, a novel by Michael Crichton in which an alien virus comes to Earth on a fallen satellite.
The name is derived from the D in D NA ( Deoxy ribonucleic Acid), as Deoxys looks like a strand of DNA, has an unusual capability to regenerate its damaged parts and it can multiply itself like a strand of DNA.
Turtwig is a Pokémon and appears to be a green-ish Pokémon with a small twig on its head. On the twig are two green leaves. It has large yellow eyes and its face is oddly shaped. On the bottom of the face there is a yellow mouth in an obtuse shape. Also on its face it has two tiny nostrils. It has four small stubby feet, so it can't move as fast, and on the bottom of its feet are an obtuse area of yellow towards the bottom of the feet. It also has a shell, which is similar to silt and feels damp and warm when touched, on its back. The shell is brown with black line on the bottom and a few stripes, and a tiny tail on its behind.
Turtwig are docile but somehow over-affectionate, as one sometimes might bite its trainer's head as a way to express its love. Any Turtwig can be both insensitive and bashful or outgoing and protective.
If a Turtwig doesn't drink enough water, the leaf on its head withers, thus it must live by the riverside. The more sunlight it receives, the more energetic it is. A healthy Turtwig always has a moist shell, especially when it lives near sources of clean water.
Turtwig can be found at the rivers near dense forests. They originally roamed the Sinnoh region in the wild, though over time, they have become a rare sight.
Turtwig can undertake photosynthesis with its body to make oxygen.
Turtwig evolves into Grotle starting at level 18 and then evolves into Torterra starting at level 32.
Made from soil, the shell on its back hardens when it drinks water. It lives along lakes.
It undertakes photosynthesis with its body, making oxygen. The leaf on its head wilts if it is thirsty.
The shell on its back is made of soil. On a very healthy Turtwig, the shell should feel moist.
Photosynthesis occurs across its body under the sun. The shell on its back is actually hardened soil.
It undertakes photosynthesis within its body, making oxygen. The leaf on its head wilts if the Pokémon is thirsty.
This Pokémon becomes more energetic the more sunlight there is. The part resembling a shell is similar to silt and is slightly damp and warm to the touch.
The shell on its back is made of soil. If the shell is moist to the touch, Turtwig is very healthy.
It uses its whole body to photosynthesize when exposed to sunlight. Its shell is made from hardened soil.
Turtwig is based on a baby turtle and may be a play on the Asian leaf turtle species.
Turtwig is a portmanteau of turtle and twig .
Chimchar has a light-colored stomach with a little swirl at the top on its chest. The swirl on Chimchar's chest carries over to Monferno and Infernape. It has a tail with a burning flame, although the tail burns weaker when Chimchar is feeling under the weather.
Chimchar are mostly vigorous and in high spirits. Although very mischievous and highly curious, Chimchar can show courage at troubled times.
Like regular monkeys, Chimchar are able to climb the rocky ledges and cliffs of tall rocky mountains, where they usually live in the wild by making nests. They originally roamed the Sinnoh region in the wild, though over time, they have become a rare sight.
A Chimchar's flame is produced by burning gas in its stomach. The flames do not go out in the rain like the flames on a Charmander 's tail, but Chimchar's flame goes out when they go to sleep.
Chimchar evolves into Monferno starting at level 14 and then evolves into Infernape starting at level 36.
It agilely scales sheer cliffs to live atop craggy mountains. Its fire is put out when it sleeps.
Its fiery rear end is fueled by gas made in its belly. Even rain can't extinguish the fire.
It is very agile. Before going to sleep, it extinguishes the flame on its tail to prevent fires.
The gas made in its belly burns from its rear end. The fire burns weakly when it feels sick.
Full of vigor and always in high spirits. It was once known by the name “Lantern-Tail” and feared as some kind of apparition.
Chimchar is based on a baby chimpanzee, along with being derived from the monkey zodiac in Chinese astrology, mixed with the element of fire from Chinese philosophy.
Chimchar may come from chimpanzee and char .
Piplup is a chubby, light-blue penguin-like Pokémon, which is covered in thick down (and, presumably, given its plump appearance and real-world penguin biology, thick layers of fatty tissue) to insulate against the cold. It has a dark blue head with a primarily white face and a short, yellow beak. The dark blue feathers on its head extend down its back and around its neck, which causes it to appear to be wearing a cape. There are two white ovals on its chest and a small, light-blue marking resembles a crown above its beak. It has flipper-like arms and yellow feet with three toes each.
Piplup has a strong sense of self-esteem. It seldom accepts food and shelter that people give it because of its pride. They almost always keep their chests puffed up as a display of pride. Piplup are difficult to train, as they are too proud to take orders from trainers, and it takes much effort to bond with such prideful Pokémon. However, their resilience and cute appearances make them popular First partner Pokémon in the Sinnoh region.
Piplup lives on seashores and beaches, usually in climates with colder temperatures. They originally roamed the Sinnoh region in the wild, though over time, they became a rare sight.
Piplup evolves into Prinplup starting at level 16 and then evolves into Empoleon starting at level 36.
Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick down guards it from cold.
It lives along shores in northern countries. A skilled swimmer, it dives for over 10 minutes to hunt.
A poor walker, it often falls down. However, its strong pride makes it puff up its chest without a care.
It doesn't like to be taken care of. It's difficult to bond with since it won't listen to its Trainer.
It lives along the shore in northern countries. A skilled swimmer, it dives for over 10 minutes while hunting.
Prefers cold climes and appears along coasts. It’s an adorable little thing—as cute as any child—but it’s also prideful, unwilling to accept handouts from people.
A Piplup made his debut in Following A Maiden's Voyage! under the ownership of Dawn . In the episode, Piplup runs off on a chase with Chimchar , who stole his food, which caused him to become horribly upset. They run off into the woods and, at that very moment, Dawn comes into the lab, where she discovered that two of the starters ran off. With this and the fact that one of these Pokémon might be her choice, Dawn volunteers to help find Piplup and Chimchar. She soon finds Piplup. Piplup, however, is not as happy to see her. Then a swarm of Ariados storm in after Piplup hits its nest in the middle of his and Dawn's fight. With quick thinking and help from Piplup's powerful Bide , Dawn manages to trick the Ariados away. But now, Piplup's hungry and Dawn just wasted most of her Pokémon food. But there were still two pieces left, which she gave to Piplup. At that moment Dawn befriended Piplup, and he was then that Dawn's adventure began. Piplup often shows his pride during the Anime by hitting his belly. Sometimes his arrogant behavior has caused troubles. Piplup learn a new move called Whirlpool and Dawn uses him in a Pokémon Contest , allowing her to pass the first round. Piplup is often seen resting on Dawn's shoulder or on her arms without going into his Poké Ball . Perhaps, Dawn learned that Pikachu preferred not to be in his Poké Ball , so he also follows him. It could also be that Piplup, like Pikachu, just never liked being in his Poké Ball which is indicated by the way Dawn got him in the first place (because he left his Poké Ball).
Piplup is based on a penguin chick.
Piplup comes from the words pipsqueak (someone small), plump (fat, referring to its chubby appearance and the blubber that real-world penguins (and thus presumably Piplup) possess) and plup (sound of a tiny splash).
Pocchama comes from ポチャポチャ (pochapocha, both the onomatopoeia for splashing and a word meaning "chubby"), 坊っちゃま (bocchama, child), and possibly an intentional childish mispronunciation of 様 (sama, an honorific suffix meaning "master").
Staraptor looks like a bigger version of Staravia, except that its feathers are now puffed up into a crest, its eyes have turned into sharp ovals with red pupils, and its comb has now flipped over its head and has red coloration sat the back.
Male Staraptor have bigger face stamps than females.
Staraptor is implied to be a solitary Pokémon, leaving their Staravia flocks behind when they evolve, as they have gained enough strength to survive on their own.
Much like Taillow , they are also very aggressive and persistent, and never stops attacking their foes even if they are wounded.Staraptor are territorial and will defend their land with all of their strength. Even when injured, they will continue to ferociously fight back attackers.
Unlike Starly or Staravia, Staraptor are carnivorous, feeding on fish and small mammals. Their talons are capable of carrying smaller Pokémon all the way back to their nests.
They pride themselves on the arrangement of their head feathers, called "combs". They will viciously attack those who dishevel them with the powerful Brave Bird. During their spare time, Staraptor can be seen preening and adjusting the feathers in their combs. During mating season, these combs are used to attract mates. Larger, glossier combs are considered more attractive, which is why they spend so much time fussing over their looks.
Staraptor have extremely powerful leg and wing muscles that can carry smaller Pokémon in its claws.
Staraptor evolves from Staravia starting at level 34 and is the final evolution of Starly . Staraptor can Mega Evolve into Mega Staraptor using its Staraptite .
It has a savage nature. It will courageously challenge foes that are much larger.
The muscles in its wings and legs are strong. It can easily fly while gripping a small Pokémon.
It never stops attacking even if it is injured. It fusses over the shape of its comb.
When Staravia evolve into Staraptor, they leave the flock to live alone. They have sturdy wings.
It has a savage nature. It will courageously challenge foes that are much larger than itself.
It has left the flock, having gained strength enough to survive on its own. The astounding force with which Staraptor flies through the air allows it to carry away large, burly targets.
A solitary aerial predator, Staraptor abandons flock behavior and becomes a fearless combatant upon evolving. It attacks with powerful wingbeats and high-speed dives capable of breaking through trees. Mega Evolution : Mega Staraptor is a top-class flier. It can easily soar through the sky while gripping a Steelix that weighs more than 880 lbs.
Staraptor is based on a starling bird and different birds of prey, possibly eagles, falcons, and hawks.
Staraptor comes from starling and raptor (a term used for predatory birds).
Concept artwork of Luxray.
Luxray resembles a fully-grown lion with a black and blue coat and a spiked mane. Black fur covers most of its body except the backs of its legs, midsection and some of its face. It has light-blue legs with three yellow rings on the front legs. On its rear is a spiked tuft of fur. Its tail ends in a golden star. It has red scleras and golden irises and pupils.
With eyes that glow in the dark, Luxray possesses the innate ability to see through solid surfaces; this allows it to easily track down its lost young or prey as well as detecting danger nearby. But doing so can drain a lot of its energies, thus it spends most of its time sleeping to recharge itself. When their families are threatened, Luxray will attack back ferociously with the powerful Thunder Fang.
One pride can hold as many as half a dozen Luxray, each with varying levels of dominance. The leader Luxray can be either of either gender, with their mates being second-in-command. The remaining Luxray are ranked based on their strength, challenging each other in battle to determine placement. This order determines who eats first at meals, leads the pack during prowls, and other aspects of life as well. Challenging leaders has the highest stakes of them all; losers are exiled from their prides, forced to start new ones on their own. A Luxray's primary job in its pride is to care for offspring and defend the family. They will also occasionally aid in hunts to take down larger foes.
Despite being a Sinnoh Pokémon, a lot of them mostly live in Kalos , especially in Lumiose City . Some also reside in the Isle of Armor .
Males have bigger manes than females.
Luxray's sight is so good, they can see through objects as if they have X-Ray vision.
Luxray evolves from Luxio starting at level 30 and is the final evolution of Shinx .
It has eyes which can see through anything. It spots and captures prey hiding behind objects.
When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey--even those taking shelter behind a wall.
It can see clearly through walls to track down its prey and seek its lost young.
Luxray's ability to see through objects comes in handy when it's scouting for danger.
When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey—even those taking shelter behind a wall.
Luxray can see through solid objects. It will instantly spot prey trying to hide behind walls, even if the walls are thick.
Seeing through solid objects uses up a lot of Luxray's electricity, so the Pokémon sleeps for long periods of time to store up energy.
It has eyes that can see through anything. It spots and captures prey hiding behind objects.
They form packs, each having one male as leader. Legends say that when Luxray's two eyes shimmer with gold, the Pokémon can see through anything.
Luxray had a few appearances in The Rise of Darkrai , as one of the Pokémon playing in the garden.
Marble owns a Luxray as her partner. Sadly, it had lost its ability to use electric attacks right after it evolved. Marble's Luxray tried to stop a criminal, but Officer Jenny's Arcanine took care of the criminal when Luxray failed. Marble was about to pet Luxray to calm him down, but Luxray growled at her and ran off. But later, Pikachu used Thunderbolt on Luxray, and it regained its ability to use electric attacks.
The Gym Leader , Volkner has a Luxray that helped restore power. Later on, during Ash's final gym battle, it defeated Pikachu . However, it lost to Infernape after it activated Blaze .
Clemont also owns a Luxray after it evolved from a Luxio.
In the Pokémon Adventures Manga, Pearl owns a Luxray.
Due to its slightly human-like features on its head (namely its face and ears) and lion-like appearance, Luxray may be based on the Egyptian sphinx . The yellow and blue coloration on its legs could be based on the yellow and blue coloration of the head-dresses pharaohs wore. The star at the end of its tail is a reference to the constellation Leo . Similar to real-life lions , Luxray live together in groups usually led by a single male.
Luxray is a combination of lux (Latin for "light") and x-ray . It may also derive from Luxor , a city in Egypt with several sphinx statues, as well as a hotel and casino in Las Vegas known for its bright city lights and high usage of electricity with an Egyptian theme (including a sphinx statue in the front) and lynx .
Its Japanese name, Rentorā may come from レントゲン (rentogen, Japanese for "x-ray", from Wilhelm Röntgen , the discoverer of x-rays), Ra (the Egyptian god of the sun), 虎 (tora, Japanese for "tiger"), and rawr (a roaring sound).
Lucario is a bipedal dog/wolf/jackal-like Pokémon, with a few raccoon-like characteristics as well. Though it is similar in appearance to Riolu, Lucario has some notable differences, such as having redder eyes. Its fore-paws are black and it has large pointed spikes in place of the oval shaped bumps on Riolu. There is also a third spike protruding in the middle of its chest. Lucario's ears and muzzle are longer in comparison to Riolu but it retains the black "mask" and red eyes. The "mask" also has an added upper stripe. It also has four black sensory bundles on the back of its head opposed to Riolu, who only had two and were previously located on the side of its head. Additionally, Lucario's torso is covered in yellow fur with thicker patches on the collar. When its mouth is open, four large canine teeth, two on the top and two on the bottom, can be seen.
Shiny Lucario replaces the slate-colored fur with a vibrant gold or yellow hue. The cream-colored torso and neck collar shift to a cool light-blue or cyan, while its black markings and red eyes remain unchanged.
Concept artwork of Mega Lucario.
Upon Mega Evolution, it has slimmer thighs, and longer yellow colored fur. Its paws become crimson and have grown more spikes. There are black markings on its blue fur due to its heightened aura. The sensory bundles also grown longer with two of them having crimson tips. Its eyes have changed from red to orange. Its tail is also merged with its cream yellow fur.
Mega Lucario Z has mostly dark, gunmetal grey for its thighs, head, ears, arms and tail, blue forearms, and its tail being split into two ends. It now has bright blue eyes shrouded in thick black outlines, and an array of silver circles and crescents. It also has two strands of long blue hair that trail from the back of its head, hanging past its shoulders with soft, jagged tips that flicker slightly when it charges aura. The usual head appendages fuse into two broader, heavier-looking shapes that extend down toward its knees, each marked with uneven silver seams that give them a forged, battle-worn feel. The cream fur along its torso grows fuller and shifts to one side, forming a slanted, windswept tuft rather than a neat point. More silver markings wrap around its waist and thighs in irregular bands, giving the impression of ancient symbols rather than clean stripes. Its chest spike reshapes into a rounded, shield-like plate with a flowing S-curve etched across it, and smaller matching plates appear on the backs of its hands, shins, and feet, which are smoother and more solid-looking like reinforced aura armor.
Lucario are very reserved, prideful and very serious Pokémon and also extremely loyal to their trainers, but they can be also friendly and cooperative with strangers and their Pokémon.
According to Gurkinn in " The Aura Storm! ", when a Lucario Mega Evolves, the power of their aura and their battling instinct is brought to the limit, so much so that when in battle a Lucario only focuses on their opponents. When a Lucario loses control of its aura in this stage it'll go wild, berserk and relentlessly attack them.
In the wild, Lucario live in packs and they are primarily carnivores, though domesticated ones can be seen eating plant based foods as well as other human food such as chocolate.
Known as the Aura Pokémon, Lucario are sensitive to a special type of energy called Aura. The black appendages on the back of their heads are used to detect the Auras of creatures and objects around it. With their ability to sense the Auras in all things around them, they can navigate and track through telepathic methods. They can also guide the waves of an Aura in an offensive manner to create small balls of energy such as Aura Sphere . Lucario are also able to understand human speech; it is said that Lucario can also speak it, though only Sir Aaron's Lucario has been shown to do so and only through telepathy.
Lucario can use aura to communicate or sense its surrounding environment as well. Aura is also useful for them to detect the strength and capabilities of their faraway foes. While a regular Lucario's aura is depicted the color blue, a shiny Lucario's aura is depicted the color yellow.
While normal Mega Lucario are more concentrated on offensive battling, Mega Lucario Z are more versatile with utilizing their aura-wielding by either harnessing aura through creating shields or using aura through specific spots, such as feet and knuckles.
Lucario evolves from Riolu if leveled up with high friendship during the day. Lucario can Mega Evolve into either Mega Lucario using its Lucarionite or Mega Lucario Z using its Lucarionite Z .
It has the ability to sense the auras of all things. It understands human speech.
By catching the aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements.
A well-trained one that can sense auras to identify and take in feelings of creatures over half a mile.
It's said that no foe can remain invisible to Lucario, since it can detect Auras. Even foes it could not otherwise see.
By reading the auras of all things, it can tell how others are feeling from over half a mile away.
Lucario : Not only does it perceive auras, but it has gainered the power to control them. It employs them in battle. Mega Lucario : Black streaks all over its body shows where its auras and the energy of Mega Evolution intermingled and raced through it.
Lucario : They can detect the species of a living being—and its emotions—from over half a mile away. They control auras and hunt their prey in packs. Mega Lucario : It readies itself to face its enemies by focusing its mental energies. Its fighting style can be summed up in a single word: heartless.
Lucario : Lucario reads its opponent's feelings with its aura waves. It finds out things it would rather not know, so it gets stressed out easily. Mega Lucario : Bathed in explosive energy, its combative instincts have awakened. For its enemies, it has no mercy whatsoever.
Lucario : It concentrates its mental energy and fires off mysterious waves called auras, which can crush boulders of large size to dust. Mega Lucario : Its aura has expanded due to Mega Evolution. Governed only by its combative instincts, it strikes enemies without mercy.
It controls waves known as auras, which are powerful enough to pulverize huge rocks. It uses these waves to take down its prey.
It can tell what people are thinking. Only Trainers who have justice in their hearts can earn this Pokémon's trust.
By sensing the aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements.
A most gallant-looking creature. It emits energy waves and controls them with precision, using them to sense even faraway beings. I have given the name “aura” to this power.
It’s said that no foe can remain invisible to Lucario, since it can detect auras—even those of foes it could not otherwise see.
A well-trained one can use its aura to identify and take in the feelings of creatures over half a mile away.
By reading the auras of all things, it can tell how others are feeling from over half a mile away. Mega Lucario : Black streaks all over its body show where its auras and the energy of Mega Evolution intermingled and raced through it. Mega Lucario Z : By completely cloaking itself in its aura, Mega Lucario Z can parry all manner of attacks, battling as if it were gracefully dancing.
Lucario's appearance in Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
Lucario is also available as an unlockable character in Super Smash Bros. Brawl . It is unlocked when it is met in the Subspace Emissary, or by playing a certain amount of VS matches. Most of its attacks are imbued with aura. Ironically, Lucario does not use any moves like Metal Claw , but uses its down smash in a fashion similar to Dark Pulse .
Lucario's attacks in Brawl are:
Lucario's appearance in Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary occurs fairly late. Lucario meditates atop an icy peak when he is approached by Meta Knight, who has climbed the mountain alongside the Ice Climbers to reach his stolen ship the Halberd , which is approaching. Lucario challenges Meta Knight to a fight, and the player chooses one or the other to play as in the duel. The winner revives the other, and the two of them become friends. Lucario joins Meta Knight in Infiltrating the Halberd , where he discovers Solid Snake hiding in a cardboard box. Meta Knight then gets ready to fight Snake, but Lucario senses that Snake is a good guy, and halts Meta Knight from attacking Snake. Lucario also senses enemies nearby and signals Snake to join the now-trio.
Lucario is next seen fighting a false Peach and a false Zelda made from Shadow Bugs. Meta Knight, Lucario, and Snake defeat the false princesses and set the real ones free. Lucario also aids Fox, Falco, Zelda, Peach, and Snake in the battle against Duon, while Meta Knight reclaims the ship.
After this, he joins the others to battle Master Hand in subspace. However it is revealed that a powerful creature named Tabuu had been manipulating Master Hand and his associates. He uses his Off Waves to turn all heroes into trophies (except Ganondorf, whom he used a different attack to beat), Bowser (who was trophified by Ganondorf), Master Hand (who is defeated by Tabuu but is not turned into a trophy) and anyone who is already a trophy. King Dedede's pins bring back Luigi and Ness (who in turn revive King Dedede) and Kirby, who is separate from them but comes back because he ate one of King Dedede's pins. King Dedede convinces Bowser to help them, while Link and Zelda (if found) bring back Ganondorf who goes to fight Tabuu. If Lucario is saved he will go to the Great Maze to battle the heroes' shadow clones (of every hero who is in subspace excluding Sheik (another form used by Zelda), Zero Suit Samus (Samus is wearing her power suit when she enters subspace) and Red's Squirtle and Ivysaur (when used he always starts with Charizard in story mode)), any bosses that have been fought and Tabuu himself. After they make it to Tabuu he is weakened by the destruction of his wings (by Sonic) which prevents him from turning everyone into trophies. When defeated Tabuu is destroyed and the world returns (except the floating isle because so many bombs went off in one area, so close together).
Lucario as he returns in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U .
Lucario returns in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U , as a default character. His Final Smash is Mega Evolution , similar to Charizard.
Lucario is a playable character in Super Smash Bros. 4. It was announced on January 31, 2014, six years to the day of the year that Super Smash Bros. Brawl was released in Japan; according to an extra post on the Miiverse reveal, this timing was done to commend the Brawl developers for succeeding in adding Lucario to said game.
Lucario possesses a unique ability that no other character in the game has: aura. Aura appears as blue concentrated energy, and is used in every single move Lucario performs. As a mechanic, aura is a damage multiplier, starting from 0.66x and capping at 1.7x when Lucario has taken 190% damage. This means that, even though most of Lucario's moves have high knockback growth, their power is extremely low with low aura, and insufficient to KO until well beyond 150%. However, with high aura, Lucario's moves have incredible power, with many of them easily surpassing every other character's at max aura. In addition, with the introduction of the rage mechanic, Lucario's attacks deal even more knockback, complimenting their already high power. Its grab game receives huge benefits as well. Since Lucario's pummel is the fastest in the game, it can deal large amounts of damage at high percents. Its up throw has low base knockback, and can combo effectively at most percents. It is also the most damaging and one of the strongest when Lucario's aura is high, making up for its increased power. Its forward throw is the fastest throw in the game, as well as the third strongest with high aura. Its back throw is very powerful, and also a semi-spike, making it excellent for edgeguarding and tech-chasing.
Other strengths of Lucario include a very useful special moveset. Aura Sphere is a strong projectile very similar to Samus' Charge Shot. However, since its size and power are affected by aura, it is much more dangerous at high percents. Its high damage output when fully powered up also lets it out prioritize most moves in the game. Force Palm shoots a blast of aura forward, with its range and power increasing with aura. If used at point-blank range, the move is treated as a grab, bypassing shields, and has immense power with enough aura. Extreme Speed is Lucario's recovery move, and is able to cover extremely long distances if Lucario has taken much damage, making it impossible to gimp. It can also launch opponents that get hit head-on. Finally, Double Team is Lucario's counterattack. It is the strongest counter in the game with enough aura while possessing plenty of range, but it's also the slowest, since any opponent that is not in hitlag will most likely avoid it.
However, Lucario has significant flaws. Despite possessing above average weight, its endurance is below average at best. The rest of its stats do not help it at all, as they make it vulnerable to combos, and one strong move is usually all it takes to end Lucario, preventing it from utilizing aura effectively after it gets knocked out. Its combo game is also heavily reliant on throws, as most other combo moves have either very limited follow-up options or awkwardly positioned hitboxes. Its most serious flaw, however, is its polarized moveset. Its fastest moves are the weakest, and its strongest moves are the slowest, making the latter very punishable. Lucario's aura can also work against it. With low aura, its powerful moves are too weak to KO, and with high aura, its combo-oriented moves are too strong to be chained together. This makes it imperative to keep in mind how Lucario's attacks function depending on percentage, as it cannot afford to make mistakes at higher percentages. It also restricts Lucario to using a "bait-and-punish" playstyle, as it cannot perform rushdowns without getting punished most of the time. Finally, Extreme Speed has numerous flaws. The move is difficult to hit with, since Lucario can only damage the opponent head-on, without having very high power to compensate. In addition, it has high ending lag and, unless Lucario grabs the ledge or lands before the move is concluded, very high landing lag. With low aura, the move is also very slow and doesn't grant much distance, while at high aura, it is possible to overshoot the stage if Lucario isn't careful.
Lucario returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , where he is among the many fighters who opposed Galeem. He was vaporized and imprisoned by the Lord of Light. He can be freed so the player can play him against Galeem and Dharkon.
Lucario's Final Smash was reverted back to Aura Storm, although Lucario still Mega Evolves upon activating its Final Smash.
Lucario appears as a Costume Mario costume in Super Mario Maker . It can be unlocked by completing 100 Mario Challenge on Expert difficulty or higher, or by scanning a Lucario amiibo .
Lucario as seen in Pokémon: Lucario and the Mystery of Mew .
Lucario has a lead role in the movie Pokémon: Lucario and the Mystery of Mew . Lucario is considered a legend from the old times to the town where he appears in front of Ash Ketchum and his friends and mistakes Ash for his old friend Sir Aaron due to his similar aura. At one time in the past, Lucario was going to try and help Sir Aaron save the kingdom, but Aaron trapped him in the staff of the guardian which made him think that Sir Aaron had betrayed him.
Lucario's appearance may be aesthetically based on the Egyptian God of death, Anubis , who has the head of a jackal. It may also be inspired by Hermanubis , a hybrid of two gods who were "conductors of souls" and was engaged with the investigation of truth. The mask around its eyes may be derived from the tanuki or raccoon dog , commonly believed to have supernatural powers in Japanese mythology. Another candidate for the mask origin may be the African wild dogs .
Though Lucario physically resembles a wild canine such as a jackal, it has a few catlike traits. For example, Lucario has slit eyes, as most felines (big and small) do. It's also possible that it has retractile claws, as it can learn attacks such as Metal Claw , Hone Claws , and Shadow Claw . Its agility and balance match that of felines. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, it is shown perched on a very thin piece of ice, then swiftly jumps down, landing on its feet.
Its shiny form can be directly linked to the African golden jackal .
Lucario's name possibly derives from a part of the word orichalcum in Japanese (oriharukon), when spelled backwards. Orichalcum is a legendary metal and might have a relation to Lucario, since it is a Steel -type Pokémon. Another less likely theory is that part of Lucario's name could be based on the Egyptian capital city, Cairo. The "rio" in its name may also be a reference to Street Fighter's Ryu, as they both have similar signature moves (Ryu has the Hadōken while Lucario has Aura Sphere (Japanese: Hadōdan)), both being blue energy balls launched from both hands at once. It may also derive from oracle, referring to its aura abilities.
Concept artwork of Garchomp.
Garchomp is a bipedal draconic shark-like Pokémon, colored mostly dark purplish-blue. It has red underbelly, extending from its mouth to its belly, which ends in a yellow triangle-like shape. On its head it possesses two horn-like appendages, also resembling a hammerhead shark, with dark gray and yellow eyes under them, as well as a star-like yellow mark on its snout. Its arms have one claw each, and triangular fins emerge from behind these claws, as well as one on its back, which has a notch out of it, if male. It also has two on its tail tip, one on top and one on the bottom. It has two white spikes on its arms and legs, and it has four teeth on top if its mouth, and six on the bottom, the tops ones overlap when its mouth is closed. It has three lines across its neck, (which are not a different color than the main body) which somewhat resemble gills, however they are also found around its legs and tail, as well as two on the ‘horns.’ It likely takes inspiration from the Carcharodontosaurus as well, with its name meaning ‘shark-toothed lizard.’
Upon Mega Evolution, both of its claws are replaced with red scythes covering its arms, and its chin becomes bulkier. Two sets of 5 spikes pertrude from its chest, and 2 red spikes emerge from its knees.
Male Garchomp have a notch in their dorsal fin, while females do not.
Garchomp are relentless pursuit predators that chase down their prey while never allowing them to escape. Being carnivores, If they ever irrupt into a flock of bird Pokémon, they will not hesitate to swallow the entire flock. They always have violent disputes with Salamence , their natural rival, when hunting for food. They are loyal and friendly towards their trainers though, as demonstrated by Prof. Sycamore's Garchomp in the anime.
They are rarely seen in the wild as they live in caves.
Upon Mega Evolving, Garchomp will become uncontrollably savage and aggressive due to their prided wings have become scythes. They won't cease throwing into a fit of ferocious rage and will even slice their enemies into scraps.
Garchomp can fly in high velocity of sound in the air when folding their bodies and stretching their wings, which can crash trees when they are running at a high speed.
The appendages on their heads can serve the purpose of a sensor, which are helpful for detecting faraway preys.
Garchomp evolves from Gabite starting at level 48 and is the final evolution of Gible . Garchomp can Mega Evolve into either Mega Garchomp using its Garchompite or Mega Garchomp Z using its Garchompite Z . Mega Garchomp Z loses its secondary Ground type.
When it folds up its body and extends its wings, it looks like a jet plane. It flies at sonic speed.
It flies at speeds equal to a jet fighter plane. It never allows its prey to escape.
It is said that when one runs at high speed, its wings create blades of wind that can fell nearby trees.
Its body is covered in fine scales that reduce drag, enabling it to fly at high speeds.
It can fly at speeds rivaling jet planes. It dives into flocks of bird Pokémon and gulps the entire flock down whole. Mega Evolution : Excess energy melted its arms and wings, transforming them into giant scythes.
The protuberances on its head serve as sensors. It can even detect distant prey. Mega Evolution : Its vaunted wings become scythes, sending it mad with rage. It swings its scythes wildly and slices the ground to pieces.
It flies at the speed of sound while searching for prey, and it has midair battles with Salamence as the two compete for food. Mega Evolution : Its arms and wings melted into something like scythes. Mad with rage, it rampages on and on.
Its fine scales don’t just reduce wind resistance—their sharp edges also cause injury to any opponent who attacks it. Mega Evolution : Its disposition is more vicious than before its Mega Evolution. Garchomp carves its opponents up with the scythes on both arms.
Garchomp makes its home in volcanic mountains. It flies through the sky as fast as a jet airplane, hunting down as much prey as it can.
Garchomp is fast both underground and above. It can bring down prey and return to its den before its body has chilled from being outside.
Soars across the heavens at blinding speed—a magnificent sight! It has a feral disposition. Utmost caution is required if one meets a Garchomp out in the wilds.
The protuberances on its head serve as sensors. It can even detect distant prey.
It flies at speeds equal to a jet fighter plane. It never allows its prey to escape. Mega Garchomp : Its disposition is more vicious than before its Mega Evolution. Garchomp carves its opponents up with the scythes on both arms. Mega Garchomp Z : Garchomp has gained a new Mega-Evolved form. It flies around foes at Mach speed and cuts them to shreds with its sinister wing claws.
Cynthia's Garchomp made her anime debut in " Top- Down Training! " where she battled Paul . Garchomp is Cynthia's main Pokémon and she releases her to assist Ash and the group to disband Team Galactic . In the Best Wishes series, she released her again to aid Iris' Dragonite, Ridley's Golurk and Cilan's Pansage to fight against Thundurus, Tornadus and Landorus in both their original and Therian forms while trying to thwart Team Rocket's Operation Tempest which proves successful when Ash's Pikachu destroys the platform that everyone is standing using its amplified Electro Ball. In Pokémon Journeys: The Series , Garchomp is mostly used by Cynthia when Ash and his group are in trouble throughout the anime series' run. She also used it again in her battle against Iris and later Ash during the semifinals at the Masters 8 Tournament and the second Pokémon to use Mega Evolution like Professor Sycamore's Garchomp.
Another Garchomp appeared in Pokémon Summer Academy . Professor Sycamore's Garchomp appeared in " Lumiose City Pursuit! " when Team Rocket made it out of control. She is Professor Sycamore's main Pokémon and serves as his research experiment at his lab. Later when James and Professor Sycamore fight for the Key Stone to make Garchomp mega evolves into a Mega Garchomp after they capture her along with her Mega Stone. Garchomp still chooses Professor Sycamore as her Trainer in her Mega form and he uses this to blast Team Rocket away with its powerful abilities.
Garchomp is possibly based on the wyvern , the velociraptor , and land sharks, the latter being fictional creatures often found in popular culture. It also has some elements of fighter jets in its design.
Mega Garchomp takes some inspiration from stereotypical bikers (the "teeth" lining the red part of its stomach and chest, combined with its dark body color, may be interpreted as a leather jacket, with the "teeth" being a zipper) and possibly praying mantises .
Mega Garchomp Z emphasizes the elements of fighter jets even further with its wing fins and extra wings on its head.
Garchomp comes from "gar" (a carnivorous fish) gabugabu (to gobble), gaburito (to chew), "gargantuan" and "chomp".
Gaburiasu comes from gabugabu (to gobble), gaburito (to chew), アース ( āsu , earth), and "Carcharias" (a genus of sand tiger sharks and the species name for the great white shark ).
Rotom is a small, round, ghostly creature with a plasma-based body. Its vibrant, orange body mass is spherical with a long, spike-shaped, antenna-like feature atop its head, and a small, round orb on its underside. It is enveloped in a glowing aura of cyan-bluish plasma, with lightning bolt-shaped appendages on either side of its lower body.
Rotom has two ovular, blue eyes and a small, grinning mouth on its face. Heat Rotom's eyes are blue and its mouth is a small white circle. Wash Rotom's eyes are the same as the normal form with a similar grin. Frost Rotom has two purple eyes and a sad frown. Fan Rotom has two yellow eyes and a small smile without any teeth. Mow Rotom has green eyes and a crazed sharp-toothed smile.
Each of Rotom's forms all resemble household appliances and have different colored plasma surrounding them; Heat Rotom's plasma is red, Wash Rotom's plasma is blue, Mow Rotom's plasma is green, Frost Rotom's plasma is purple, and Fan Rotom's plasma is yellow.
Rotom is very clever and mischievous. It enjoys teasing and frightening people and Pokémon. It often invades appliances and takes control of machines, allowing it to change its form.
It is said that a young male inventor's creation has caused Rotom's multiple forms to be developed.
Thanks to its plasma-composed body, Rotom is able to infiltrate electronic devices, namely appliances, and take control of machines. This allows it to change form, as well as its Ghost type. It can enter a lawn mower to assume its Mow Form, a microwave oven to assume its Heat Form, a refrigerator to assume its Frost Form, a washing machine to assume its Wash Form, and an electric fan to assume its Fan Form. Its “wings” also change for each form: clothes pins for Wash, oven mitts for Heat, splintered wood piece for Mow, lightning bolt for Frost, and wind current for Fan.
As of Generation V , Rotom changes its secondary typing depending on which form it takes: it becomes Electric/Water in its Wash form, Electric/Fire in its Heat form, Electric/Grass in its Mow form, Electric/Ice in its Frost form, and Electric/Flying in its Fan form.
As of Generation VII , Rotom can enter a PokéDex and transform itself into such a shape. This allows it to communicate with people and Pokémon alike.
As of Generation VIII , Rotom can enter a phone . This allows it to attach itself to objects, such as bikes, in order to upgrade them.
As of Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , Rotom can enter a drone . This allows it to hoving around the battlefield to record Gym battles and all battles taking place in Wyndon Stadium .
Each of Rotom's appliance forms possess elemental abilities that it uses for its mischievous pranks: Heat Rotom is able to manipulate fire with stylish flair and uses this ability for burning up clothing; Wash Rotom possesses water manipulation and can use it to flood rooms; Fan Rotom uses aerokinesis to blow away papers; Frost Rotom can spray cold air and can freeze any body of water, including a water-filled bathtub; and Mow Rotom is able to scatter any grass clippings, as well as slicing through flowers.
Rotom does not evolve , however, Rotom can enter appliances (list in info box above).
Rotom is a Generation IV Pokémon , first appearing in the Pokémon Diamond and Pearl games. With the release of Pokémon Platinum , Rotom was given the ability to transform into 5 other forms with the aid of a special item . In Generation V, to change Rotom's form, you need to go to the basement of Shopping Mall Nine and interact with one of the many boxes of electronics, and choose a form. You will be asked to allow Rotom to forget a move and learn a move the type of the form it takes.
Its body is composed of plasma. It is known to infiltrate electronic devices and wreak havoc.
Its electric-like body can enter some kinds of machines and take control in order to make mischief.
Research continues on this Pokémon, which could be the power source of a unique motor.
Normal Rotom : One boy's invention led to the development of many different machines that take advantage of Rotom's unique capabilities. Heat Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a convection microwave oven that uses a special motor. It also has a flair for manipulating flames. Wash Rotom : This form of Rotom enjoys coming up with water-based pranks. Be careful with it if you don't want your room flooded. Frost Rotom : Rotom assumes this form when it takes over a refrigerator powered by a special motor. It battles by spewing cold air. Fan Rotom : In this form, Rotom applies its new power over wind to its love of pranks. It will happily blow away any important documents it can find. Mow Rotom : This is Rotom after it's seized control of a lawn mower that has a special motor. As it mows down grass, it scatters the clippings everywhere.
Normal Rotom : With a body made of plasma, it can inhabit all sorts of machines. It loves to surprise others. Heat Rotom : This form of Rotom enjoys making mischief by turning up the heat. It will gleefully burn your favorite outfit. Wash Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a washing machine that uses a special motor. It blasts out water to get enemies to back down. Frost Rotom : When it's like this, Rotom likes to play pranks that are freezing cold. You may find it's turned the bath you just filled to solid ice! Fan Rotom : This Rotom has taken over a fan that has a special motor. Its gusts of wind blow its opponents away! Mow Rotom : In this form, Rotom focuses its antics on plants. Any flowers you were growing are going to get mowed down.
Normal Rotom : This bizarre Pokémon appears to be a will-o'-the-wisp powered by electricity. Be wary, as Rotom is both smart and mischievous. Heat Rotom : A form in which Rotom lurks within a strange cauldron. The cauldron's origin is unknown. A bothersome Pokémon, causing trouble with the flames it spits. Wash Rotom : A form in which Rotom lurks within an odd bureau. The bureau's purpose is unknown. A bothersome Pokémon, causing trouble by splashing cold water everywhere. Frost Rotom : A form in which Rotom lurks within a bizarre cupboard. The cupboard's composition is unknown. A bothersome Pokémon, causing trouble by frosting everything over. Fan Rotom : A form in which Rotom lurks within a mysterious contraption. The contraption's purpose is unknown. A bothersome Pokémon, causing trouble by stirring up powerful winds. Mow Rotom : A form in which Rotom lurks within a misshapen wheelbarrow. The wheelbarrow's mechanisms are bizarre. It's a bothersome Pokémon, causing trouble by mowing down grass and trees.
Normal Rotom : Its electricity-like body can enter some kinds of machines and take control in order to make mischief. Heat Rotom : If the convection microwave oven is not working properly, then the Rotom inhabiting it will become lethargic. Wash Rotom : This Rotom has entered a washing machine. It nods with satisfaction after it floods the surrounding area. Frost Rotom : This Rotom has entered a refrigerator. It leaps around gleefully after it uses cold air to freeze the area around it. Fan Rotom : This Rotom has entered an electric fan. It smirks with satisfaction over a prank well pulled after it blows away everything around it. Mow Rotom : The lawn mower is one of the household appliances that led to the development of the Rotom Dex.
Normal Rotom : Research continues on this Pokémon, which could be the power source of a unique motor. Heat Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a convection microwave oven. It will sear the surrounding area with its burning heat, then smile in delight. Wash Rotom : The model of washing machine that Rotom can inspirit has been discontinued, so these appliances are now traded at high prices. Frost Rotom : The special motor within the refrigerator is the key to bringing about Rotom's change in form. Fan Rotom : There are several appliances that Rotom can inspirit, but the first one to be developed was the electric fan. Mow Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a lawn mower. It will mow down grass and flowers, then swagger around with pride at its accomplishments.
Normal Rotom : Its body is composed of plasma. It is known to infiltrate electronic devices and wreak havoc. Heat Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a convection microwave oven that uses a special motor. It has a flair for manipulating flames. Wash Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a washing machine that uses a special motor. It blasts out water to intimidate opponents. Frost Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a refrigerator that uses a special motor. It battles by spewing cold air. Fan Rotom : This Rotom has possessed an electric fan that uses a special motor. It sends its enemies flying with gusts of wind. Mow Rotom : This Rotom has possessed a lawn mower that uses a special motor. As it mows down grass, it scatters the clippings everywhere.
Rotom first appeared in the episode " Get Your Rotom Running! " and it was tricking and toying around with Ash and his friends.
In " To Catch a Rotom! ", Professor Oak caught a Rotom after saving it from Team Rocket and healing it.
Ash obtained a Rotom Pokedex in " Loading the Dex! ", and a Rotom Phone in " Legend? Go! Friends? Go! "
In PH001: The Pendant That Starts It All (Part One) , during Liko 's interview for the school she was going to attend, she uses a tablet version of Rotom.
Beta and Final Rotom sprites
Rotom may be based on a Poltergeist or related to the phrase "ghost in the machine," which is often used to refer to a truly sapient artificial intelligence. It may also be based on the Obake and the Tsukumogami , which are objects that become animate when reaching their 100th year of existence. Rotom may also be based on ball lightning and its mysterious and seemingly mischievous behavior. Ball lightning was once described as a living mythological "species of fire" known as ignis fatuus , which loosely translates to "foolish/mischievous fire". Due to its ability to possess electrical appliances, Rotom is based on the electric motor. Rotom also appears to resemble Pulseman, which was also designed by Ken Sugimori and can also enter electrical devices. As evidenced by changing its form in Pokémon Sword and Shield, it may also be based on a lightbulb.
Rotom's name is motor backwards. This is because of the fact that all of the household appliances it can turn into in battle have motors. It may also come from router and modem , both being devices capable of transferring data to other devices, similarly to how Rotom is able to transfer itself into appliances.
Dialga is a sauropod-like Pokémon . It is mainly blue with some gray, metallic portions, such as its chest plate, which has a diamond in the center. It also has various, light blue lines all over its body. It has a, somewhat, wing-like structure on its back, and a crest on its head, resembling a type of dinosaur. Dialga also has two horns on top of its head, two fang-like horns around its mouth, long claws, and a short tail, almost the impression of armor.
Dialga was created when Arceus hatched from its egg and created the world. Arceus tasked Dialga, Palkia , and Giratina to create the universe—time, space, and anti-matter respectively. Dialga was worshiped as the master of time and metal, as it is a steel-type Pokémon. It is said that time flows whenever Dialga's heartbeat pulsates. When time disturb and it can devolve everything like reverse time.
Dialga has the ability to control time. Dialga, like many other Dragon-type Pokémon, can use many different elemental attacks. It is also one of the few Pokémon that can learn the move Aura Sphere . Capturing it gives an item called the Adamant Orb , which strengthens Dialga's Steel- and Dragon-type moves by 20%. Dialga gained the ability to change into its Origin Forme through the power of the Adamant Crystal .
Dialga does not evolve .
It has the power to control time. It appears in Sinnoh-region myths as an ancient deity.
A Pokémon spoken of in legend. It is said that time began moving when Dialga was born.
A legendary Pokémon of Sinnoh. It is said that time flows when Dialga's heart beats.
This Pokémon completely controls the flow of time. It uses its power to travel at will through the past and future.
This Pokémon is spoken of in legend. It is said that time began moving when Dialga was born.
Altered Forme: This Pokémon is revered as a deity in Hisuian legend. The birth of Dialga was what caused the vast river of time to begin flowing in our world. Origin Forme: Radiant light caused Dialga to take on a form bearing a striking resemblance to the creator Pokémon. Dialga now wields such colossal strength that one must conclude this is its true form.
Front (Shiny)
Back (Shiny)
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl , Dialga is sometimes seen on the Spear Pillar , along with Palkia and Cresselia (but never during the same battle on the stage). Dialga will appear on the background platform when the color of the stage turns blue. While Dialga is on the stage, it can fire a powerful beam of energy straight down the stage, tilt the stage to a diagonal position (although this is simply an illusion), or use its signature move Roar of Time , which slow players down drastically. This ability is based on Dialga's control over time. It may also leap forward from the platform onto the stage, damaging any players it touches.
There is also an unlockable trophy of Dialga.
Dialga makes a cameo appearance as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U .
Dialga makes a reappearance in the Spear Pillar stage as well as an obtainable spirit .
Dialga in the anime.
Dialga had a role in all the Diamond and Pearl movies with the exception of Zoroark: Master of Illusions . Dialga had a major role in the The Rise of Darkrai where it battled against Palkia in between dimensions. Dialga played a minor role in Giratina and the Sky Warrior where Giratina attempted to capture Dialga for polluting its world in its battle against Palkia. Dialga played a major role (larger than Palkia's or Giratina's) in Pokémon: Arceus and the Jewel of Life , where it saved Pikachu and Piplup from whirlpools at the ruins.
A Dialga also appears in Hoopa and the Clash of Ages , where it was summoned by Hoopa Unbound to attack Dahara City .
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Dialga is being controlled by Cyrus and the red chain. Dialga uses its ability to control time for battling.
PAL: The concept of time has always been one of the world's great mysteries, but Dialga might hold the answer. Legend has it that Dialga's birth caused time to begin moving! It's no surprise that the people of Sinnoh see this Pokémon as a deity. If you're ever running late, maybe you could ask Dialga to do you a favour and turn back the clock.
Dialga, along with Palkia, may be based on the Shinto legend of Izanami and Izanagi , who are said to have created one island with a spear, erected a pillar on it, and from there created the islands of Japan. Appearance-wise, Dialga seems to be based on short-necked sauropod dinosaurs such as Camarasaurus or Brachytrachelopan with the aspects of diamond, a highly precious gemstone. How its type is Steel is possibly a reference to the aspect of timelessness and hence a supreme standing in the overall continuum of time; from the term "diamonds are forever", how metal is able to last, or the fact that most parts of a clock are made of metal, such as the gears. It may also be because diamonds are compressed carbon, and steel is a alloy from iron and carbon. Its turquoise pattern on its body is vaguely reminiscent to clock hands, interestingly, the ends of the "clock hands" are diamond-shaped.
Dia lga is derived from " Dia mond", as Palkia's is derived from the Japanese word for "Pearl". It may also be derived from dial , referring to its time-based capabilities.
Palkia is a very large, bipedal Water/Dragon Pokémon . The majority of its body has a light pink-gray-white coloring with linear sections on its body being purple. Its arms and shoulders are covered by large, armored plates, and each hand holds five nails. The round plates on its shoulders each have a large pearl in the center, representing its affiliation to Pearl . On Palkia's back are wings, which are seemingly not used for flight, as Palkia does Levitate .
Palkia, along with Dialga and Giratina , was created by Arceus when it hatched from its egg. Palkia was tasked to make the universe along with Dialga and Giratina and create space.
Referred to as the Spatial Pokémon , Palkia has the ability to distort space, creating ways for it to live and travel in a different dimension. Palkia also has the power to create new dimensions. It is said that Palkia and Dialga were never supposed to meet. It’s also known that it is very weak to the Pokémon Salamence (See ‘Trivia’ for explanation). Since Pokémon Legends: Arceus , Palkia has the ability to change into its Origin Form through the power of the Lustrous Globe .
Palkia does not evolve .
Front (Shiny)
Back (Shiny)
Palkia being encountered in Pokémon Pearl Version
In Pokémon Pearl Version , at Spear Pillar , Cyrus uses the Red Chain he crafted from the powers of the Lake Guardians — Uxie , Azelf , and Mesprit —to call up and control Palkia, whom Cyrus wants to use to remake the world in his liking. After defeating Cyrus, the player can battle Palkia, who is level 47, and have a chance to catch it. Even if Palkia is defeated, the player has the option to encounter it again after entering the Hall of Fame .
In Pokémon Pearl Version , a statue of Palkia is found in Eterna City . It is said to have been the centerpiece of many festivals in the Sinnoh region.
In Pokémon Diamond Version , the exact events with Palkia involve Dialga instead, as well as the statue in Eterna City. Palkia can still be registered into the Pokédex and/or traded from Pokémon Pearl Version .
In Pokémon Platinum Version , Cyrus uses both Palkia and Dialga to try and create his new world, but disturbs Giratina , who drags him into the Distortion World . After completing the location, the player can encounter Palkia at Spear Pillar with the Lustrous Orb in their possession, and likewise Dialga if they have the Adamant Orb . Palkia is now level 70 when encountered.
In Pokémon Legends: Arceus , Palkia's Origin Forme appears for the first time, like Dialga's. It is also the first time that Palkia's anime cry was used in the games.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explores of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness , plus their upper version Explorers of Sky , after the player has completed The Nightmare , they and their partner Pokémon return to their Rescue Team Camp , but as they are sleeping, the ground begins to shake, a blinding light appears for a split second, then clears, revealing Palkia. Palkia takes both the player and their partner to Spacial Rift and pushes them off of a cliff at 40,000 feet, but both manage to survive the fall nonetheless.
The player and their partner face Palkia at the end, in Spacial Rift Bottom. The battle is exceptionally challenging for Fire - type Pokémon. Once Palkia is defeated, he becomes trapped in a nightmare, just as Azurill has, and the player and their partner enter inside. As soon as Cresselia prepares to destroy them, another Cresselia appears, and the player, their partner, and Palkia look back and forth a few times in confusion. The second Cresselia blasts light at the other one, revealing it to be a Darkrai , and after the final battle against Darkrai, Palkia thwarts its escape attempt using Spacial Rend to shatter the dimensional hole as revenge for using him.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Sky , Palkia retains the same role as in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness .
In Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of Almia , Palkia appears in Hippowdon Temple if the player has downloaded the "Palkia in Haruba Desert!?" mission from Ranger Net . Its presence causes disruption in space-time, warping humans , Pokémon , and objects around. Palkia uses Spacial Rend in battle to alter
In Pokémon Ranger: Guardian Signs , like the previous game, Palkia is encountered in the Sky Fortress exclusively in the "Pledge to Arceus" mission of Ranger Net, along with Dialga and Giratina.
Palkia in Super Smash Bros. Brawl
Super Smash Bros. Brawl is Palkia's first appearance in the Super Smash Bros. series . In the game, Palkia has a chance of appearing in the Spear Pillar stage if it has a purple tint. Once it appears, it has a multitude of abilities, including destroying sections of the stage, shooting a powerful beam either vertically or horizontally, decreasing the stage's gravity (making players jump higher and fall slower), tilting the camera so that it's askew, flipping it horizontally, and rotating it upside-down. After performing a couple of these abilities, the screen returns to normal, and Palkia then disappears.
In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , Palkia can be spawned from a Poké Ball or Master Ball and attacks by using its signature move, Spacial Rend , which involves it slashing across the screen and flipping the camera. This affects nothing other than the player's viewpoint. Coming into contact with it does minor damage. Eventually, the screen tilts back to normal and Palkia disappears.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , Palkia returns as one of the Pokémon that can be summoned from a Poké Ball or Master Ball. It acts the same as before. It is also one of the game's obtainable spirits .
Palkia in the anime.
Palkia's first appearances were in the Diamond & Pearl series' Dragon Trilogy. It was first shown, along with Dialga and Darkrai , in The Rise of Darkrai , where it fought with Dialga and nearly destroyed Alamos Town. It was shown in a flashback in Giratina and the Sky Warrior , and finally, in Arceus and the Jewel of Life , alongside Dialga and Giratina , started a battle which awoke an ancient power. The Dragon Trio (Palkia, Dialga, and Giratina) seem to have equal power. Although Palkia fought Dialga in The Rise of Darkrai, they now seem to understand and accept each other, like when Palkia saved Dialga from the waterspout Arceus made, or when they fought alongside each other against Arceus.
Statues of Palkia have appeared in A Secret Sphere of Influence! , Journey to the Unown! , Losing Its Lustrous! , Double Team Turnover! , Steeling Peace of Mind! , Saving the World From Ruins! , and Bagged Then Tagged! . Palkia made its anime debut in The Battle Finale of Legend! , although a silhouette of Palkia appeared in All Dressed up with Somewhere to Go . This could possibly be the one from the dragon trio movies since there's only one Palkia in existence. Palkia also makes a cameo in the Together and Diamond and Pearl openings.
A Palkia also appeared in the 18th movie, Hoopa and the Clash of Ages , in which it is drawn into a battle between Hoopa and its dark side, Hoopa Unbound.
PAL: Stories of this Legendary Pokémon say that Palkia is a god that controls all of space. When it uses its Spacial Rend attack in Super Smash Bros., it causes the screen to flip upside down. If that wasn't confusing enough, it also flips the left and right controls!
Palkia, along with Dialga, may be based on the Shinto legend of Izanami and Izanagi , who are said to have created one island with a spear, erected a pillar on it, and from there created the islands of Japan. Appearance-wise, Palkia is likely based after a European dragon combined with a pearl, being a water based precious stone. Its appearance may also be derived from the Plateosaurus or other bipedal dinosaurs such as the Oviraptor . How it is significant of the aspects of Space is shown through its Water typing, as it is the most similar medium which simulates both outer space and the metaphorical aspects of space, and whose consistency can manifest in various densities, while theologically, the "primordial chaos" before creation is often likened to a "great sea", and Medieval European Christian cosmology once believed that the space beyond the stars was a massive sea before the heavens.
The name " Pal kia" is partly derived from the word " Par u", meaning pearl in Japanese. Since the Japanese language possesses only one liquid consonant, which is the equivalent of the English language /l/ and /r/, the "r" in pa r u can be used as an "l", creating Pa l kia when romanized.
Giratina's Altered Forme is a giant, draconic Pokémon, with an appearance similar to that of a large sauropod. It has 6 legs, gold protrusions that look like external ribs, and golden horns on its head. Its neck has five red stripes and 4 black stripes. On its back, it has a black stripe pattern that extends to its legs. It has black wings with three red thorn-like appendages called girasols (a rare type of opal) coming out of them.
Giratina's Origin Forme is more serpentine than its Altered Forme, and resembles a draconic centapide rather than a dinosaur. Its wings are now shaped like tentacles with the red thorn-like appendages sticking out at the end. Its mouth is now behind the two appendages in front of its face. They open when Giratina roars or etc. The horns on its head are still the same. Giratina in Origin Forme has five rows of golden spikes protruding out of the torso and near the tail. Five gray and red stripes are partially overlapped by these spikes.
Giratina's Origin Forme.
Like some Pokémon, it has a signature move, called Shadow Force , which hits the opponent without fail even if the foe uses Protect or Detect beforehand. When in its Origin Forme, it retains its phenomenal amounts of HP, like any other Pokémon that is in their alternate formes, and it focuses on more offensive moves, and less on the defensive moves. It switches its Attack stats with its Defense stats in its Origin Forme, making it a great powerhouse. It is also a vastly powerful Pokémon that can use these benefits to fit the trainer's focus on attacking.
It will become Origin Forme when in the Distortion World , or when holding the Griseous Orb .
Among the most complex Pokémon to understand, Giratina is claimed to be malevolent, and is dreaded in both its nature and appearance. Despite the fear it receives, Giratina can be merciful, and is seemingly misunderstood due to legends. An example of its merciful side is that it will freely allow the player to enter and leave the distortion world, even in defeat and despite Team Galactic's previous meddling.
In the 11th movie, Giratina was angered by Dialga and Palkia for polluting its home by having a battle, time and space were being distorted. In the 11th and 12th movie, Giratina continued to attack Dialga, but it was calmed by Ash and Sheena.
This proves that although Giratina is powerful with its control over antimatter and can be violent, it is not evil or malevolent
Giratina does not evolve , but it can change forms.
Giratina, along with Dialga and Palkia, was created when Arceus hatched from its egg. Arceus tasked Giratina to create the universe alongside Dialga and Palkia . Giratina was known to be one of the most aggressive Pokémon. Because of this, Arceus banished Giratina to the Distortion World , where it supposedly would be trapped forever to balance the Distortion World.
A Pokémon that is said to live in a world on the reverse side of ours. It appears in an ancient cemetery.
It was banished for its violence. It silently gazed upon the old world from the Distortion World.
This Pokémon is said to live in a world on the reverse side of ours, where common knowledge is distorted and strange.
Altered Forme: There is one Hisuian verse that tells of a powerful light creating a deep shadow. I imagine that this deep shadow is Giratina. Origin Forme: Giratina loses its legs upon changing into this form. I believe this Pokémon must hail from a world where the heavens and the earth are as one, though I have no way of proving it.
Giratina along with Dialga , Palkia , and Arceus appeared to be created by Mew and the Tree of Beginning in the 8th Pokémon movie, Lucario and the Mystery of Mew .
Giratina has a large role in the 11th Pokémon movie serving as one of primary protagonists, Giratina and the Sky Warrior , where it tries to attack Dialga for polluting its dimension with its earlier battles with Palkia . However, later on it is captured by Zero and after he tries to absorb its powers it had to deal with a machine which just obtained its powers. Giratina is rescued by Ash and his friends, with help from Shaymin . Giratina also has a role in the 12th Pokémon movie, Arceus and the Jewel of Life , where Giratina, Dialga, and Palkia fends off Arceus as Ash and friends prevent the betrayal long ago from happening.
A Giratina appeared in the 18th movie as one of several Legendary Pokémon summoned by Hoopa Unbound in order to attack its light side.
According to Junichi Masuda and Takeshi Kawachimaru, Giratina and the Distortion World are personifications of antimatter.
The fact that Giratina was banished to the Distortion World by Arceus , separating it from the Pokémon World, further cements its association with antimatter clashing with ordinary matter with disastrous and dangerous results. It is likely referred to as a "renegade" due to the fact that it is comprised of dangerous foreign antiparticles that oppose ordinary matter, hence Giratina's "violent" nature according to the legends surrounding it.
It is most likely based on Ōmukade , a yōkai in Japanese mythology that is a giant draconic centipede that was known to be vicious and large and powerful enough to devour not only people, but dragons as well.
It may also be based on a Seraph , a high-ranking and very powerful choir of fiery angels known for possessing six wings.
Giratina's Altered Forme resembles a European dragon, and a dinosaur such as a sauropod . When in its Origin Form, Giratina resembles a Chinese dragon in addition to a centipede .
Giratina's name might comes from a combination of the words, "girasol" (a type of red opal), and "purachina" (Japanese for platinum ).
The top of its body is connected to the lower half by a tiny waist, giving it an hourglass shaped figure. It has a red spiky growth around its neck and a long white mane flows from its head, obscuring one of its blue eyes. Its thin arms have three claws each, with three spiky protrusions above each elbow. Its shoulders also have long tatters and it appears to be wearing an old ripped cloak or dress. It is able to extend stilt-like extensions to use as legs.
Darkrai resembles a ghost or a haunted spirit. Despite its design, Darkrai is not a Ghost type, even in part, instead being purely a Dark type.
Darkrai is shown to be mysterious, sinister and ominous, yet extremely misunderstood. It's also shown to be a creature of habit for it causes nightmares, regardless of who it affects. However, there is very little evidence to prove it maliciously scares humans on purpose.
It is widely believed that Darkrai and Cresselia are enemies, but in reality, are in love. But the Abilities they both possess causes disruptions to people and Pokémon for their sleeping is disturbed from both sweet dreams and worst nightmares. Hunted for their misfortunes, forces the two Pokémon to be forever separated with Darkrai residing on Newmoon Island and Cresselia residing on Fullmoon Island except for once a year when their abilities are suppressed the Alpha Pokémon Arceus so that both Pokémon can be given a single night together.
Darkrai does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Darkrai using its Darkranite .
Darkrai first appeared in the Pokémon movie The Rise of Darkrai . It was seen protecting Alice , whose grandmother Alicia had been kind to it in the past. It then intervened in the cosmic conflict between Dialga and Palkia . It also makes a cameo appearance in the end credits for Arceus and the Jewel of Life , along with Shaymin .
Darkrai next appeared in Sleepless in Pre-Battle, which was its anime debut. It caused nightmares, much like it can in the games. It was concealing itself when Cresselia used its abilities to reveal it from the darkness. The two then battled and Darkrai hid itself once more in the shadows. In its debut movie The Rise of Darkrai , Darkrai usually hovers above the ground, but it can sprout long thin legs with which it can walk around like a person.
Another Darkrai appeared under the ownership of a trainer who competed in the Sinnoh League named Tobias in League Unleashed!
Darkrai first appeared in Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version . To obtain it, a player would have had to receive a Mystery Gift during a special event that gives them the Member Card , allowing them to access the Harbor Inn and reach Newmoon Island from there.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness , a Darkrai is the main antagonist of those games. It is discovered that Darkrai was the reason that the Hero was turned into a Pokémon and lost his or her memory when he or she had gone back in time with Grovyle to stop the temporal tower from breaking and causing Dialga to turn into Primal Dialga . After the final battle against Darkrai, he attempts to escape in a time portal, when Palkia , who is angered that Darkrai used him, shows up and destroys the time portal as Darkrai is halfway through it. He sustains a lot of damage, loses his memory and gets banished to an unknown place.
In Pokémon Ranger: Shadows of Almia , Darkrai featured in a special mission named Liberate the Tower . It can be found in the location where Darkrai helped you before. It uses its ability, Dark Power, to fend off Team Dim Sun . However, the mission is no longer available for download. It was possible to send Darkrai to Pokémon Diamond , Pearl , and Platinum .
In PokéPark Wii: Pikachu's Adventure and PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond , a Darkrai similarly has the role of being the main antagonist.
Darkrai may be based on ghosts or spirits (though it is not a Ghost -type Pokémon). It may also be based on shadows. Its habit of bringing nightmares to people it passes may come from the Mare, a creature in mythology that brings nightmares to people by being close by to them. As Darkrai is associated with darkness as opposed to Cresselia's light, it is believed that Cresselia has a rivalry with Darkrai which may also reference Cygnus X-1, a celestial object consisting of a black hole that pulls in material from a nearby super giant star and in doing so emits X-rays. Its wings may be based on aurorae, planetary rings, or electron orbits, and it has a crescent moon motif. It may also be based on the Sarimanok , a legendary bird with multicolored wings that is a symbol of good luck originated in Mindanao Region, Philippines.
Its relation to Cresselia may be based on the term "dark side of the moon", describing a part of the Moon that is unknown or hasn't been explored yet. The feelings between the two Pokémon are also most likely based on a Chinese folktale, The Cowherd and the Weaver Girl , based on the brightest two stars in the known universe, Altair and Vega . The Cowherder and The Weaver Girl's love was forbidden and were banished on opposite sides of the celestial river of the Milky Way. But once a year, on the seventh day of the seventh month all the magpies in the world fly up and build a bridge between them so the two lovers can be united for a single day of passion.
Darkrai comes from dark and kurai (Japanese for "dark").
This Pokémon is known as the creator of the Pokémon World. It has the highest base stat total of any Pokémon (excluding alternate forms). It is also the mascot for Pokémon Legends: Arceus and is the master of both the Creation Trio and the Lake Guardians .
Arceus as all of its different forms
Arceus is an equine being similar to a qilin . Its body color is white with a gray, vertically striated underside, the pattern of which has similar recurrences on the underside of Arceus's mane, tail, and face, and Arceus's pointed feet are tipped with gold hooves. Its mane is quite long, jutting away from its head, and its face is gray, with green eyes and red pupils, and a green circular pattern below its eyes.
Arceus also has a streak of gold coloration on its head, and ears that point upward. Its neck is fairly long, with two pairs of extrusions to the sides, and a flap-like feature on the neck's underside that is colored white like much of the body. It also has a golden cross-like wheel attached to its body by its round abdomen, which changes color along with its eyes and hooves based on Arceus's current type. The wheel also has four jewels attached to it. The pattern of striated gray of Arceus's underbelly resumes past Arceus's waist, the underside of Arceus's limbs also being gray in coloration, and with extrusions at the tops of the legs. Arceus's tail is fairly like its mane in shape and coloration.
Arceus looks like a fusion of Palkia and Dialga, resembling a wingless dragon of some sort. It's appearance also bears some resemblance to a llama. Arceus will change color as well as type with whatever type of plate it is holding. It is shown with other colors of the wheel, though always being different.
According to Arceus itself in Legends: Arceus , it doesn't have a tangible nor concrete appearance. Its known equine appearance is merely a fragment of itself as a proxy in the living world.
Arceus has the ability Multitype , which is an ability exclusive only to this Pokémon . Multitype allows Arceus to change its type based on whichever plate or type-specific Z-Crystal it is currently holding. For example, holding the Flame Plate or a Firium Z will make it a Fire type, while holding the Splash Plate or a Waterium Z will make it a Water type. Generation VI introduced the Fairy type, so Arceus can be a Fairy Type upon having Pixie Plate or Fairium Z.
According to the Pokédex , Arceus in mythology is said to have shaped the Universe with its "1,000" arms, though, due to Arceus not actually having any arms, it can safely be assumed that the "1,000 arms" are metaphorical. The "1,000" arms could be Arceus's move "Judgement" but this is still unknown.
It has also been stated that Arceus created the Creation Trio (otherwise known as the Dragon Trio) Dialga , Palkia , and Giratina , as well as the Lake Guardian Trio (also known as the Lake Spirits) Uxie , Mesprit , and Azelf . Arceus can also easily hold off Giratina, Palkia, and Dialga all at the same time, making it incredibly powerful and it can speak using telepathy the same way Mewtwo speaks.
In Pokémon Legends: Arceus , Arceus demonstrated the ability to open time-space rifts which it can use to summon humans from different points in time, Arceus also turned the player's smartphone into an Arc Phone so it could communicate with the player and send them instructions via messages. After the player's battle with Arceus, Arceus described the physical Pokémon encountered by the player as "a portion of [itself]", heavily implying that it is not Arceus's true form but rather an extension of itself.
Its balanced stats surpass Mew 's, Celebi 's, Jirachi 's, Manaphy 's, and Victini 's. It is also capable of learning Draco Meteor if given the Draco Plate. It can learn nearly every move, excluding ones that require the use of arms or hands. The exception to this is Seismic Toss , although it can be presumed that it can lift its foes with telekinesis. It can be said that Arceus is arguably the most powerful Pokémon considering it's the creator of all Pokémon, has the second highest base stats of any Pokémon (only behind Ultra Necrozma ), and its ability to overpower three extremely powerful legendary Pokémon (Dialga, Palkia, and Giratina).
Arceus does not evolve .
In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version and Pokémon Platinum Version , Arceus appears in the Hall of Origin , where it can be encountered only by using the Azure Flute , obtained only from special events. Arceus was not officially revealed until February 2009. Arceus could be obtained during a few special events taking place in 2009 and 2010. Every special event distributed a level 100 Arceus that corresponds to Arceus and the Jewel of Life , including one at Toys "R" Us stores in the United States between November 7-15, 2009. The Azure Flute was never distributed officially, presumably in favor of the Arceus used to promote the film.
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , if the player has an Arceus, they can enter the Sinjoh Ruins , where the Arceus creates a newborn Dialga , Palkia , or Giratina , each at level one and holding their respective orbs. The event can be activated once with the film Arceus and with an Arceus obtained in the Hall of Origin unofficially.
Arceus is seemingly referenced in Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness . On the final floor at the last dungeon, your hero will find a Silver Arceus Statue, which gives a very powerful item called a Space Globe , which raises all the active Team Member's Attack stat. Arceus itself does not appear in the game. However, Arceus has a very small role at the end of the final episode. After beating Primal Dialga and Dusknoir , Grovyle and Celebi are about to be erased from the timeline, although this is canceled suddenly, along with the erasure of Dusknoir. Dialga says it is not his doing, but another Pokémon 's at a much higher power level, possibly referring to Arceus.
Arceus appeared in Arceus and the Jewel of Life , making its debut appearance in any form of the Pokémon Anime. Arceus was betrayed by Damos (but, revealed brainwashed by Marcus) then become upset. After he was returned, he battled against Dialga , Palkia , and Giratina . Dialga transported Ash Ketchum , Dawn , Brock , and Sheena back in time to stop Marcus from betraying Arceus in the first place.
Arceus also appears with other Legendary Pokémon in Hoopa and the Clash of Ages the 18th Pokémon movie. It was seen flying through the sky at the end of the movie.
Arceus made its debut appearance as a silhouette in Showdown at the Gates of Warp! , it was called upon by Ash, Goh , Dawn, Chloe and everyone in both worlds to break the Red Chain to free Dialga and Palkia and end the fight.
It reappears again in The Arceus Chronicles , it sensed the Sinnoh region is in danger again, when Team Galactic stole the Flame Plate and capture Heatran to open the dimensional gate to bring Cyrus back. It summons the Lake Guardians to help out Ash and the others to stop them and the Monster Heatran from reaching Spear Pillar at Mt. Coronet. It shows up and assist them to take down Team Galactic first, then closes the gate to prevent Cyrus from coming back, it then transformed into its Water-type form to trap the Monster Heatran so Ash, Goh, Dawn and their Pokémon can rescue Heatran before it explodes. After Heatran, Mt Coronet and Sinnoh are saved, Arceus along with Azelf, Mesprit and Uxie return to their dimensional home peacefully.
Arceus also appeared along with Dialga, Palkia and Giratina in the opening "The Greatest - Everyday!".
Gold will fight against Arceus in the later chapters of HeartGold and SoulSilver Pokémon Adventures.
Arceus is based on a Creator deity , the idea of which is present in many world mythologies and religions. It also resembles a Qilin . The idea of being the first-ever Pokémon may reference how many religions often believe that certain creator gods were the first in the universe and that they created everything. The fact that it hatches from an egg may reference the World egg . Its description in the Pokédex and its design may reference both forms of Avalokiteśvara , often described as having eleven heads and a thousand hands (relating to its Pokédex entry) or having one head and four arms with a shining white coloring (relating to its Normal Form). Its design may also be based off on an alpaca or llama, religious depictions of lambs, and the Urcuchillay , an Incan deity said to take the form of a multi-colored llama. Its pose in its official artwork as well as its legs resembling fingers may play off of the Hand of God, a common motif in religious, particularly Christian and Jewish, art.
Arceus comes from "archetypus" (Latin for "Archetype"), αρχή (archè, Greek for "the Beginning", "power" and "commandment"), aureus ("Golden")/aurum (Latin for "gold") or "arch-"(original, supreme or high-ranked), as well as possibly incorporating "arcanus" (Latin for "[Holy] Secret"), "Arael" (an Abrahamic angel whose name translates to "Light of God"), "arcane", "arc" (referring to the wheel around its body) or "alpha" (The first letter of the Greek alphabet and often symbolic of beginnings. The Greek word 'archaios' (ἀρχαῖος) means "ancient". It then became the English word "archaic", which probably refers to how Arceus created the world and could be the first-ever Pokémon. Alpha comes from the term Alpha and Omega, which refers to God in the Book of Revelation .) and "deus" meaning divine being or god. It may also incorporate "Zeus" (the king of the gods in Greek mythology), "Ra" (the Egyptian god of the sun), "Uranus" (the primordial Greco-Roman god of the sky), and/or "Jesus" (an important figure in the Abrahamic religions, especially Christianity, in which he is believed to be the son of God).
Arceus's "Ar" (アル, aru ) part may be a reference to Alpaca (アルパカ arupaka ) which is a popular animal in Japan.
Snivy is a serpentine creature with mainly a green body, tan stomach and lower head, with the end of its tail being shaped like a leaf as large as its head. Though unlike most other snake-like creatures, Snivy sports arms and legs, being green and tan, respectively. The arms are quite plant-like, ending in three prongs that act like fingers. Its head is a tear drop shape with the top half being green and the bottom half, in front of the neck, being tan. Its eyes are in the intersection between the border of the green and tan parts of its head. Its eyes are surrounded by a yellow marking and are usually half closed. Near the bottom of its neck is a yellow collar which comes up on either side on its body, and comes together in the center of its back, making a line to the bottom of the leaf tail.
A calm and intelligent Pokémon, Snivy moves swifly in battle. They'll start to move swifter if they bathe in sunlight for long enough. A Snivy will show it's in bad health when its tail starts drooping.
Snivy will always keep their heads held up high. They are known to refuse orders they consider “unbecoming” or “unworthy;” in fact, Snivy may even persuade other Pokémon to complete tasks they do not want to finish for them. Despite their haughty personalities, Snivy are also very calm and intelligent. Though they dislike combat, they will stay collected when attacked and always think before acting. Though their arms are usable, Snivy are more adept at using vines to handle objects.
According to Iris and Cilan in Snivy Plays Hard to Catch! , due to their high intelligence, Snivy have high expectations of their trainers. If a trainer fails to meet them, then Snivy will leave them. Despite their smugness, their calm natures and intelligence make Snivy popular amongst trainers in Unova.
Snivy usually live on treetops and tall grasses in many forests.
Snivy evolves into Servine starting at level 17 and then evolves into Serperior starting at level 36.
Snivy is based on the green vine snake and possibly the expression "snake in the grass" (someone untrustworthy). Snivy and its evolution having legs may be based on the theory that snakes evolved from lizards, which had legs. As the Unova starters are based on historical empires, Snivy and its evolutions are likely based on the French (and possibly British) Empire .
Snivy is a portmanteau of snake , ivy , and possibly snide (sarcastic and harsh).
Tsutāja likely comes from 蔦 ( tsuta , vine or ivy) and 蛇 ( ja , snake).
Concept artwork of Tepig.
Tepig is a small quadrupedal mammalian Pokémon that resembles a piglet. Its plump body, which gets fatter towards its rump, is mainly a bright fiery orange color. Its ears, forehead, backside, tail, and the tips of its front feet are black. It has long ears, large eyes with black pupils, and a distinctly pig-like pink nose with two large nostrils. It has a short yellow stripe extending vertically across the front of its face, just above its nose. It has a short curly tail with a round red orb at the tip; the orb at the tip of Tepig's tail glows when it uses its Fire-type attacks.
A Tepig shoots fire from its nostrils, but when it is unhealthy the fire it exhales from its nose becomes black smoke. When it's delighted, it wags its tail rapidly.
Tepig mostly eat berries and roasts them before eating.
Tepig, like its evolved forms, are rather hard to find in the wild. Though there have been reports of Tepig appearing in the Canyon Biome at Blueberry Academy .
Tepig can use its nose to breath out flames.
Tepig evolves into Pignite starting at level 17 and then evolves into Emboar starting at level 36.
In the Unova region, Tepig is one of three First partner Pokémon that the player can choose from, along with Oshawott , and Snivy .
Tepig made its first appearance in In the Shadow of Zekrom! Ash caught his own Tepig in BW004: The Battle Club and Tepig's Choice! , later evolving into Pignite during a battle against his former cruel trainer, Shamus .
In the Pokémon Adventures manga, Black owned a Tepig which has evolved into Emboar. Another Tepig appeared under the employment of the BW Agency .
Tepig is based on a Vietnamese-Pot Bellied Piglet . As the Unova starters are based on historical empires, Tepig is based on the Chinese Empire .
Tepig comes from tepid (meaning slightly warm) and pig .
Its Japanese name, Pokabu, is derived from ぽかぽか pokapoka (warmth circulating through one's body), 豚 buta (pig), or ブー bū , (oink). It may also incorporate pork (pig meat).
Oshawott is a bipedal, mammalian sea otter-like Pokémon. It has furs covering its entire body, with white fur on its face and arms, light-blue fur on its chubby torso and a dark blue tail, feet and ears. Its face features freckles on each cheek. It also has a tan-colored scallop shell attached to its stomach called a "scalchop", which is made of keratin (the same substance as human hair and fingernails). If broken, its scalchop can regrow.
Oshawott are mostly mischievous and slightly aggressive. When they feel bored, they will play with their Scalchop, making a "pound" sound. Many trainers pick Oshawott at the beginnings of their journeys in Unova based on their cuteness. Though these Pokémon may act tough, they are also quick to cower and flee when situations become too intense for them to handle.
Oshawott are born with scalchops attached, and simple shells found on beaches will not suffice as substitutes. Scalchops consist primarily of a combination of chitin and calcium carbonate—their composition is nearly identical to that of an Oshawott's claws, which are normally retracted. These Scalchops are also as sharp as blades, and are used to slash at foes and keep them at bay. Oshawott also use scalchops to slice open hard Berries when eating and thick vines when traveling. Because they rely on their scalchops so heavily, Oshawott will guard them with their lives. Their unique weaponry and charming personalities make them a common choice for Unova trainers.
Oshawott's scalchop can be removed from their bellies and used as a sword for specific attacks, such as Razor Shell , and can also be used to deflect attacks.
Oshawott evolves into Dewott starting at level 17 and then evolves into Samurott starting at level 36.
It fights using the scalchop on its stomach. In response to an attack, it retaliates immediately by slashing.
The scalchop on its stomach is made from the same elements as claws. It detaches the scalchop for use as a blade.
The scalchop on its stomach isn't just used for battle--it can be used to break open hard berries as well.
This Pokémon from the Unova region uses the shell on its belly as a weapon to cut down its foes. Thus, I’ve conferred upon this shell the name "scalchop."
It wields the scalchop on its stomach like a knife, blocking the moves of its enemies before slashing back at them in swift retaliation.
It's said that Oshawott learned to maintain its scalchop with riverbed stones by mimicking humans it saw using whetstones.
Oshawott is based on a sea otter . The scalchop on its stomach may reference how real sea otters lay on their backs and hold the invertebrates they eat on their stomachs and sometimes use their shells as tools. Oshawott's scalchop may also be a reference to razor clams. As the Unova starters are based on historical empires, Oshawott is based on the Japanese Empire.
Oshawott may come from otter , wash , and water .
Its Japanese name, Mijumaru, may be derived from 水 mizu (water) or 未熟 mijuku (naive), and 丸 maru (circle, likely either because of its plump appearance or because said kanji was often used in male or samurai names).
Japanese: ミジュマル
Zoroark is a fox like Pokémon covered mainly in dark grayish fur. It has a pointed muzzle, red lining around its eyes and mouth, teal eyes, a fluffy black ruff of fur around its neck, and a long, voluminous spiky crimson mane with grey tips tied into a ponytail with a teal-colored band encircles the bottom part of Zoroark's mane. It has three sharp red claws on both its hands and feet.
Zoroark's Hisuian form consists of light grey fur on its body, a white mane with red tips resembling tendrils, red spots on its arms and legs and deep navy blue claws. Its eyes are yellow with red markings on the edge and deep blue inside of its ears. The red tips and spots on its body are results of laceration caused by their intense hatred and malice for humans and other Pokémon.
Zoroark are mysterious and sometimes mischievous Pokémon, although they are generally more serious than their pre-evolution Zorua . They are very protective of their homes and their family. They will use illusions to trick enemies and prevent them from entering their lair. They are extremely protective of those it cares about and will go to any lengths to keep them safe, including risking their own lives, and one can hold grudges on those who harm its loved ones. Zoroark will hide their Zorua young in their manes to protect them and carry them around.
There are stories that say Zoroark punishes those who attempt to catch it by trapping them in an illusion. Some domesticated Zoroark, nonetheless, may instead perform their illusions to ease their lonely trainers' solitude.
Hisuian Zoroark are notably more maliciously and ferociously aggressive than regular Zoroark. They are reckless and tend to assail their victims with their incredibly terrifying illusory projections that can terrify them from the inside out. However, they still display a compassionate streak to their loved ones, notably their Zorua children. Additionally, they can prove themselves to be invaluable allies once they establish trust with humans and other Pokémon.
A Unovan Zoroark can morph or reincarnate into a Hisuian Zoroark, either through perishing in the harsh strifes in the wild after being casted away, or losing their beloved Zorua child and subsequently overwhelmed by intense malice and emotional pain.
Zoroark can create incredibly realistic illusions. However, Zoroark are incapable of physically changing themselves into another form; they are merely capable of casting illusions. They can transform into both people and other Pokémon. When a Zoroark takes the form of a human, it is capable of human speech. They use their illusory powers to protect their lair and their pack. They have the ability to fool a large group of people simultaneously and cameras with their illusion-generating powers.
Zoroark can easily stand on 2 legs, but when they need to run, they resort to all fours.
In the Sun and Moon series, Zoroark can also use its illusionary powers show memories of the past.
Hisuian Zoroark can project illusions from the spiteful power they emit from their long writhing fur, which can inflict both severe physical and psychological harm on their foes, damaging their victims' bodies from both inside and out as well as driving them mad by the terror. Hisuian Zoroark can also make their illusion of humans talking, to the point of easily fooling anyone in order to get food.
Zoroark evolves from Zorua strting at level 30.
Bonds between these Pokémon are very strong. It protects the safety of its pack by tricking its opponents.
Each has the ability to fool a large group of people simultaneously. They protect their lair with illusory scenery.
Stories say those who tried to catch Zoroark were trapped in an illusion and punished.
It doesn’t just transform itself—it also has the power to make hundreds of people see its illusions.
If it thinks humans are going to discover its den, Zoroark shows them visions that make them wander around in the woods.
This Pokémon cares deeply about others of its kind, and it will conjure terrifying illusions to keep its den and pack safe.
Seeking to ease the burden of their solitude, lonely Trainers tell Zoroark to show illusions to them.
Hisuian Form: With its disheveled white fur, it looks like an embodiment of death. Heedless of its own safety, Zoroark attacks its nemeses with a bitter energy so intense, it lacerates Zoroark's own body.
A female Zoroark appears the Pokémon movie Zoroark: Master of Illusions . In the movie, Zorua called Zoroark "Meema" (Pronounced Mee-Mah) throughout. "Meema" was Zorua's way of calling Zoroark his mom.
Zoroark is most likely based on the kitsune of Japanese folklore, a mystical shapeshifting fox. However, Zoroark and its pre-evolution are based on the darker and more mischievous sides of kitsune , most likely the "yako" and "nogitsune" variations. Its facial markings are reminiscent of both kabuki and noh makeup. It may also play off of how foxes in media are often depicted as deceptive or are tricksters. There is also a possibility that Zoroark is based on the chupacabra , a mythical creature from South America and Mexico, said to kill and drain the blood of livestock. Key features of the chupacabra consist of sharp fangs, an upright stance and sharp spines along its back, similar to Zoroark.
Its Hisuian form seems to have a stronger tie to its Kitsune origins with the coloration of red, white and ghost typing. The Baneful Fox mask may take inspiration and coloration from Kitsune masks. Its origin, which involves it reborn from its lingering soul, is analogous to vengeful ghouls and ghosts, as well as revenants. It's personality of being invaluable allies is also based on a benevolent Kumiho , Huli Jing , and Kitsune assisting humans, some also became wives of human males. The red portions on its arms and legs resemble frostbite sores.
Zoroark comes from zorro (Spanish for "fox") and dark .
Chandelure is a black and purple Pokémon that resembles a ghostly chandelier. It possesses a large round glass head containing blazing purple flames which flare out from the top and multiple arms tipped with purple flames extending out from its base. It has two black arms with two candle-like extensions sprouting from each arm. Its mouth area consists of black stitch-like designs, and it has two large circular gleaming yellow eyes.
Its shiny form has a light shade of orange, and the eyes are hot pink.
Legend claims that by waving its arms about, Chandelure is able to mesmerize its victims and drain their life force in order to power up its own flames; any victim drained of their spiritual essence would end up as a hollow shell. However, Chandelure appears to be a very loyal and safe Pokémon when owned by an experienced trainer.
Chandelure evolves from Lampent if it touches a Dusk Stone and is the final evolvution of Litwick . Chandelure can Mega Evolve into Mega Chandelure using its Chandelurite .
It absorbs a spirit, which it then burns. By waving the flames on its arms, it puts its foes into a hypnotic trance.
Being consumed in Chandelure's flame burns up the spirit, leaving the body behind.
The spirits burned up in its ominous flame lose their way and wander this world forever.
This Pokémon haunts dilapidated mansions. It sways its arms to hypnotize opponents with the ominous dancing of its flames.
In homes illuminated by Chandelure instead of lights, funerals were a constant occurrence or so it's said.
It absorbs spirits, which it then burns. By waving the flames on its arms, it puts its foes into a hypnotic trance.
Being consumed in Chandelure’s flame burns up the spirit, leaving the body behind. Mega Chandelure : One of its eyes is a window linking our world with the afterlife. This Pokémon draws in hatred and converts it into power.
In PokéPark 2: Wonders Beyond , a Chandelure is the keeper of the Dance Inferno Attraction.
Subway Boss Ingo owns a Chandelure, while his twin brother, Subway Boss Emmet, owns an Eelektross . Ingo's Chandelure helped to thwart Team Rocket's scheme in Battle for the Underground! . It later appeared once more in Lost at the Stamp Rally! where Ingo used it to battle alongside Emmet's Eelektross against Ash's Tepig and Cilan's Pansage in a Battle Subway double battle. Ingo's Chandelure and Emmet's Eelektross, being powerful and fully-evolved, defeated Ash and Cilan's Pokémon and won the battle.
A Chandelure in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS
Chandelures are enemies in the Smash Run mode of Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS . Their attacks consist of Will-O-Wisp , in which they unleash three small purple flames at the player's fighter, and Fire Spin , in which they generate a small, fiery tornado. Chandelure's Flash Fire ability is even exhibited from them being immune to fire-elemental attacks and hazards, which can even power them up.
Like the other enemies in Smash Run, Chandelure has its own trophy.
Chandelure is based on a haunted chandelier . The flames of this Pokémon's line are a play on the depiction of ghosts/spirits appearing as ghastly flames/lights in Japanese culture, and possibly the legend of the will-o'-the-wisp .
Chandelure comes from chandelier and lure .
Concept artwork of Haxorus.
Haxorus is an enormous, tall bipedal reptilian Pokémon that possesses traits of both dinosaurs and dragons. Its body is powerfully built all around, and heavily armored with thick pale green and black scales. Its claws on both its hands and feet are red. Haxorus has a long segmented scaly neck, small red eyes, and a beak-like mouth. Two razor-sharp double-edged red and black tusks protrude from either side of its mouth. It has a thick, powerful green tail with a black tip.
Haxorus are generally kind Pokémon, but they can be very territorial, using their axe-like tusks for fighting. It's also known to eat dirt to take in minerals that keep its tusks in good condition.
Haxorus evolves from Fraxure starting at level 48 and is the final evolution of Axew .
They are kind but can be relentless when defending territory. They challenge foes with tusks that can cut steel.
Their sturdy tusks will stay sharp even if used to cut steel beams. These Pokémon are covered in hard armor.
Its tusks are incredibly destructive. They can easily slice through a thick, sturdy steel column every time.
Its resilient tusks are its pride and joy. It licks up dirt to take in the minerals it needs to keep its tusks in top condition.
While usually kindhearted, it can be terrifying if angered. Tusks that can slice through steel beams are how Haxorus deals with its adversaries.
This Pokémon nests in caves and abandoned mines. It is docile, but it will become incredibly angry if its tusks are touched, so beware.
It overwhelms enemies with its prized tusks, which are sharp enough to cut through a metal transmission tower in one strike.
Haxorus was seen in Dreams by the Yard Full! when a Munna was draining Iris's Axew's Dream to wake it up. It was seen after they saw Axew evolve into Fraxure , implying that Axew wants to evolve.
Drayden' Haxorus appeared in various flashbacks. It battled Iris in Drayden Versus Iris: Past, Present, and Future! .
Haxorus possesses traits of dinosaurs and dragons , with it mainly resembling armored lizards and the Dicynodontia , ancient mammal-like reptiles with tusks. Its tusks seem to resemble a battle axe . Its behavior of using its tusks as a weapon may come from how most tusked animals use their tusks for fighting rather than biting. This behavior is often believed to have originated from dinosaurs.
Haxorus comes from "hack" (to cut), "axe", and -saurus (Greek for "lizard" and a common ending to dinosaur names).
Its Japanese name, Ononokusu, comes from 斧 ( ono , axe), 戦く ( ononokus , to tremble), and アックス ( akkusu , axe).
Hydreigon is a large three-headed draconic Pokémon. It is mainly blue with scruffy black fur covering its arms and neck. The black fur that covered up its eyes as a Deino and Zweilous has disappeared, creating a frill-like appearance and is now magenta in color. Instead of having one wing-like appendage on each side of its body, it now has three wings on each side of its body that allow it to fly. On the end of each arm is a smaller blue head with eyes and a mouth, but no brain. Hydreigon uses both its main head and its head-like hands to voraciously devour its food. After Zweilous evolved, its tail has grown longer and has magenta scales on the underside as well as a black tip on the end. Its round, plump belly has two rows of magenta scales just like it had when it was a Zweilous . Its abdomen seems to have grown plumper and fuller as a result of eating so much food as a Zweilous.
Hydreigon has relatives in the future, known as Iron Jugulis .
Hydreigon is said to be a violent and brutal Pokémon that devours and destroys everything it sees. However, it appears to be harmless and loyal when raised and owned by a skilled Trainer. As seen in the anime, it will allow its trainer to ride upon its back and fly.
The two smaller "heads" lack any form of free will as the main head is usually intelligent and has a brain; despite this, Hydreigon usually thinks of destruction. Many people despised Hydreigon in the past, which caused it to become more ferocious.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity , Hydreigon is a wise and very kind Pokémon who represents and embodies the Voice of Life; he is endearingly quirky and will assist the hero throughout the game.
Hydreigon evolves from Zweilous starting at level 64 and is the final evolution of Deino .
A brutal Pokémon that flies continuously through the sky on its six wings, marking everything that moves as an enemy and attacking.
The heads on its arms lack brains. It destroys and devours everything with its three heads.
It responds to movement by attacking. This scary, three-headed Pokémon devours everything in its path!
The heads on their arms do not have brains. They use all three heads to consume and destroy everything.
It responds to movement by attacking. This scary, three-headed Pokémon devours everything in its path
There are a slew of stories about villages that were destroyed by Hydreigon. It bites anything that moves.
The three heads take turns sinking their teeth into the opponent. Their attacks won't slow until their target goes down.
Only the central head has a brain. It is very intelligent, but it thinks only of destruction.
It's said that Hydreigon grew ferocious because people in times long past loathed it, considering it to be evil incarnate and attacking it relentlessly.
Hydreigon is based on a multi-headed dragon, possibly the Hydra or Yamata no Orochi from Greek and Japanese mythology, respectively, due to it gaining heads through its evolutionary line. It could have been inspired by King Ghidorah , a kaiju, which is Godzilla's nemesis. It may also be based on polycephaly , an occurrence that causes an organism to be born with two or more heads.
Hydreigon comes from hydra , drei (German for "three"), and dragon .
Reshiram in Pokémon Black.
Reshiram is a large, white draconic Pokémon that represents truth (while its counterpart, Zekrom , represents ideals). Reshiram has a slightly mammalian-looking face that resembles that of a white lion . It has a great wispy flowing mane of white feathery fur surrounding its head, striking blue eyes, and several silvery-white rings around its thin, swan-like neck. It has a large cylindrical torch-like tail which functions as a powerful fiery engine. It has with a single silvery band around each of its hands, which are attached to its wings. Its arms are attached to its wings, which are vast, white and feathery. Its chest feathers resemble the design of the Silver Wing . The lower portion of its body protrudes outward to a feathered point. It has a round belly and thick, powerfully-built legs with three claws on each foot, and a single claw on the back of each foot.
Reshiram does not evolve .
This Pokémon appears in legends. It sends flames into the air from its tail, burning up everything around it.
When Reshiram's tail flares, the heat energy moves the atmosphere and changes the world's weather.
This legendary Pokémon can scorch the world with fire. It helps those who want to build a world of truth.
Flames spew from its tail as it flies through the sky like a jet airplane. It's said that this Pokémon will scorch the world.
According to myth, if people ignore truth and let themselves become consumed by greed, Reshiram will arrive to burn their kingdoms down.
Reshiram, when paired with Zekrom, may be based on yin and yang , a concept originating in Chinese philosophy. Yin and yang are intended to represent dualism, which can be seen in the design of Reshiram which has a lighter, feminine, more natural appearance in contrast to Zekrom's darker, masculine, and more industrial appearance. It may also be based on deities in Zoroastrianism , two of which are depicted as equally powerful, though they represent different powers and values, with Zekrom being based on Angra Mainyu , who was associated with fire, light, and truth. Physically, Reshiram overall seems to resemble a wyvern or bird.
Reshiram comes from shiro (Japanese for "white"). Re was also used in its name as it sounds softer compared to the Ze in Zekrom's name. This was done due to Reshiram being considered a less physically powered Pokémon. The Rem in Reshiram's name may stem from Remus .
Zekrom is a large, black draconian Pokémon that seems to share its theme with its counterpart, Reshiram . Compared to its other counterparts, it also appears to have more of an upright body that appears to be vaguely humanoid. Zekrom has piercing red eyes and dark gray to black skin that seems to be armor-like. Zekrom also has a large, generator-like tail and long mane that ends in a tip, usually glowing in an iridescent blue color. It also has a set of small black wings behind its three-clawed arms.
Zekrom does not evolve .
Concealing itself in lightning clouds, it flies throughout the Unova region. It creates electricity in its tail.
This Pokémon appears in legends. In its tail, it has a giant generator that creates electricity.
This legendary Pokémon can scorch the world with lightning. It assists those who want to build an ideal world.
When the interior part of its tail spins like a motor, Zekrom can generate many bolts of lightning to blast its surroundings.
Mythology tells us that if people lose the righteousness in their hearts, their kingdoms will be razed by Zekrom's lightning.
Zekrom, when paired with Reshiram, may be based on yin and yang , a concept originating in Chinese philosophy. Yin and yang are intended to represent dualism, which can be seen in the design of Zekrom which has a darker, masculine, and more industrial appearance in contrast to Reshiram's lighter, feminine, and more natural appearance. It may also be based on deities in Zoroastrianism , two of which are depicted as equally powerful, though they represent different powers and values, with Zekrom being based on Angra Mainyu , who was associated with darkness. Physically, Zekrom overall seems to resemble a European dragon and an electrcic turbine.
Zekrom comes from kura (Japanese for "black"). Ze was also used in its name as it sounds harder compared to the Re in Reshiram's name. This was done due to Zekrom being considered a more physically powered Pokémon.
Kyurem's other Forms (Black Kyurem and White Kyurem)
Kyurem is portrayed as an ice-covered, hunch-backed draconian entity with small arms and large bulky legs, along with a damaged wing and chipped horn. Its ice-covered wings are attached to its shoulder blades. It has a fin-like structure by its neck with a small yellow streak down its arrow-shaped head. Ice covers its face completely except for its eyes, which are yellow. Additionally, Kyurem has two other forms in which it can be fused with either Zekrom or Reshiram.
Kyurem can produce ultracold air. It can also change form by using the DNA Splicers (Drayden's family treasure) to turn Reshiram or Zekrom back into the Light Stone or Dark Stone and then merging with it. The process can also be reversed. In Black and White Versions 2, when under the control of Ghetsis, it appears to turn into some sort of awakened form where its wings are revealed to be node-like appendages that absorb energy, as well as tendrils that shoot fiery energy which it uses to trap Zekrom/Reshiram, then absorb them.
Kyurem's body is made entirely out of ice and can release extremely cold air. It also gains the ability to manipulate both electricity and fire in addition to its normal cryokinetic abilities; its additional electricity manipulation results from being fused with Zekrom while its fire-based abilities comes from fusing with Reshiram.
Kyurem makes its home in the Giant Chasm of the Unova region.
There are conflicting ideas on the origin of Kyurem. According to the old woman in Lacunosa Town, Kyurem descended from an icy comet, which simultaneously created the Giant Chasm, and took residence there. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, however, it is stated by Drayden that Kyurem was created alongside Reshiram and Zekrom and may be all that's left. Also, in-game, it is found out that the substance that makes up the Giant Chasm dates from the same time period as Dragonspiral Tower . This version of the story is more viable based on the Pokédex entry that states that Kyurem wishes to be completed with truth and ideals, thereby becoming the Original Dragon once more.
Kyurem does not evolve .
It generates a powerful, freezing energy inside itself, but its body became frozen when the energy leaked out.
It can produce ultracold air. Its body is frozen.
This legendary ice Pokémon waits for a hero to fill in the missing parts of its body with truth or ideals.
Kyurem : Dwelling within it is a power even greater than that of Reshiram or Zekrom, but the extreme cold keeps that power bound. Black Kyurem : It's said that this Pokémon battles in order to protect the ideal world that will exist in the future for people and Pokémon. White Kyurem : The sameness of Reshiram's and Kyurem's genes allowed Kyurem to absorb Reshiram. Kyurem can now use the power of both fire and ice.
Kyurem : It appears that this Pokémon uses its powers over ice to freeze its own body in order to stabilize its cellular structure. Black Kyurem : The sameness of Zekrom's and Kyurem's genes allowed Kyurem to absorb Zekrom. Kyurem can now use the power of both electricity and ice. White Kyurem : It has foreseen that a world of truth will arrive for people and Pokémon. It strives to protect that future.
Kyruem has two alternate forms in-game. Black Kyurem is exclusive to Black 2 version, Kyurem takes this form when it merges with Zekrom, allowing it to use Electric-type moves. White Kyurem is exclusive to White 2 version, Kyruem acheievs this form by merging with Reshiram, giving it Fire-type moves.
Kyurem has a third unseen form, referred to by fans as Perfect Kyurem, this form is mentioned in game as the original dragon which Zekrom and Reshiram split from, Kyurem could take this form if it merged with both Zekrom and Reshiram.
Kyurem appeared in the movie Kyurem vs. the Sword of Justice where it is the main antagonist of said movie.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Gates to Infinity , Kyurem is the main antagonist of the story. It is brutal and powerful, savagely attacking Hydreigon, who is the player's helper and the Voice of Life. Kyurem is the penultimate boss of the main storyline.
It attacks with both a fiery Dragon Pulse that blasts in a straight line, or Glaciate , a freezing wind that's a sure hit, and also lowers speed. However, after being defeated, it is revealed that it is actually being controlled by a greater force, called the Bittercold.
With Reshiram and Zekrom representing yin and yang respectively, Kyurem may be based on Wuji , the absence of Yin and Yang. Along with this and its Ice typing, it may be based on the concept of absolute zero, being a play on "absolute zero" meaning either "nothing" or "really cold temperatures". It may also be based on a comet considering its edged and icy body (comets are mainly made up of ice crystals) and it coming from a meteor from space. Its design overall seems to resemble a Tyrannosaurus Rex and a European dragon.
Kyurem and its Japanese name, Kyuremu, come from 急冷 ( kyūrei , rapid cooling), 冷 ( rei , cold), 零 ( rei , zero), and 無 ( mu , nothing).
Concept artwork of Chespin.
Chespin seems to resemble a porcupine or hedgehog. It has a tough spiky green chestnut-like shell covering its head and back. Chespin has brown fur, a large orange triangle-shaped nose, black oval-shaped eyes, and a toothy grin. It has sharp claws on its large feet, and an orange tip on the end of its pointed green tail.
Despite having a curious nature that tends to get it in trouble, Chespin keeps an optimistic outlook and doesn't worry about small details.
Chespin evolves into Quilladin starting at level 16 and then evolves into Chesnaught starting at level 36.
The quills on its head are usually soft. When it flexes them, the points become so hard and sharp that they can pierce rock.
Such a thick shell of wood covers its head and back that even a direct hit from a truck wouldn't faze it.
When Chespin tenses up just before landing a headbutt, the spikes on its head sharpen to points, piercing the enemy’s body on contact.
Eating lots of berries makes the bark shell that covers Chespin’s head and body grow sturdier.
Clemont received a Chespin from Professor Sycamore after it helped him defeat Team Rocket . Chespin also has a heated rivalry with Serena's Pancham throughout Ash's journey.
Chespin is based on a hedgehog and a chestnut.
Fennekin is a small, fox-like Pokémon. It has yellow, orange and white fur. The fur on its long, pointy muzzle is white, while its body is mainly covered in bright yellow fur. It has fluffy tufts of vibrant, flame-orange fur protruding from its ears. Its eyes are round and bright orange with slit pupils. Its nose is round and black. It has a short, bushy yellow tail with an orange tip, similarly shaped to the tail of Zorua .
Searing heat that can reach 200 degrees Celsius (392 degrees Fahrenheit) or more blows from Fennekin's ears when it is threatened. It loves to snack on twigs, which help give it the energy it needs to generate more body heat. It can be temperamental, but it tries to do its best to for its Trainer, both to please its Trainer and keep its anger and emotions in check.
Fennekin evolves into Braixen starting at level 16 and then evolves into Delphox starting at level 36.
[ Notes 2 ]
Serena received a Fennekin from Professor Sycamore as her First partner Pokémon. She later evolved into a Braixen in Battling with Elegance and a Big Smile and into a Delphox off-screen prior to Reuniting for the First Time .
Fennekin appears to be based on a fennec fox and a kitsune , foxes in Japanese mythology associated with fire.
Its encounter at the Savanna Biome can act as a reference to real life Fennec Foxes residing in Africa.
Its English name, Fennekin, comes from fennec fox and kindle .
Froakie is an amphibious Pokémon that resembles a frog. It has cyan blue skin covering most of its body, and a scarf-like collar of frothy white bubbles known as Frubbles ( ケロムース Keromousse) around its neck. Its front feet are white, and it has a dark blue line on its back that extends vertically across its face. Its eyes are large, protuberant and bright yellow. It has two Frubbles on its nose. Its back legs are long and powerfully-built for jumping.
The Water -type Pokémon Froakie is both light and strong, making it capable of jumping incredibly high. The Frubbles protect it from attacks. Froakie may appear absent-minded, but in truth it pays close attention to its surroundings at all times reacting to hits from opponents quite quickly.
Froakie evolves into Frogadier starting at level 16 and then evolves into Greninja starting at Level 36.
It secretes flexible bubbles from its chest and back. The bubbles reduce the damage it would otherwise take when attacked.
It protects its skin by covering its body in delicate bubbles. Beneath its happy-go-lucky air, it keeps a watchful eye on its surroundings.
Its happy-go-lucky look is an act intended to fool its enemies. It will suddenly drop the facade and overwhelm its foes with its blinding speed.
It utilizes its extraordinary jumping abilities to flummox its foes, throwing springy bubbles at them from above their heads.
Froakie is based on a frog, more precisely, a tree frog. Its bubbly and foamy scarf it has is based on "frog foam nests" that are often created as a nest to protect their eggs. Its foam also slightly resembles a backpack or a hood, a reference to dorobō (robbers in Japanese culture), where they often use bags of stolen goods as a hoodie to conceal their identity.
Froakie comes from frog , froth , croaky , and possibly coquí , a type of frog.
Greninja, like its previous evolution, has the body style of a frog. In this form, it now resembles Toxicroak and has gained the appearance of a ninja. It is dark blue in color and has its tongue wrapped around its neck like a scarf instead of the bubbles found on Froakie and Frogadier.
As Ash-Greninja, Greninja's skin turns a lighter shade of blue, while its face gains red stripes and its cheeks and side fins turn black, changing shape to resemble Ash 's hair. Its legs are stronger in this form, and it gains the ability to form large Water Shurikens on its back.
Shiny Greninja changes all of the blue into black and its tongue changes color to red.
A Greninja moves with the speed and grace of a ninja. They use swift movements to confuse their enemies while they slice them up with throwing stars made of compressed water. These throwing stars are sharp enough to split metal.
Greninja can sometimes be found hanging upside-down from tree branches or ceilings in the shadows, waiting for unwary foes to approach. They can propel themselves considerable distances by shooting jets of water at the ground beneath them (though they can often jump just as high, if not higher). Their blinding speed and incredible stealth have made Greninja popular starter Pokémon in the Kalos region for years.
Greninja can create shurikens from compressed water and mucus, the shurikens can cut cleanly through steel cables and split through metal.
Greninja is capable with stretching its tongue at long distances with much elasticity.
Greninja also uses its tongue to sense enemies it can’t see by feeling air movements.
A specific Greninja is also capable of using Bond Phenomenon , in the anime as well its special ability Battle Bond in Generation VII , which can change into an alternate form called Ash-Greninja .
Greninja evolves from Frogadier starting at level 36 and is the final evolution of Froakie . Greninja can Mega Evolve into Mega Greninja using its Greninjite .
In the anime, Ash's Greninja is arguably the most powerful Pokémon aside from other Greninja trainers, particularly ninjas from the Ninja Village. He has an alternate form known as Ash-Greninja, which he can transform into via the Bond Phenomenon, and its power rivals that of Mega-Evolved Pokémon. Ash's Greninja also develops a rivalry with Sawyer's Sceptile and its pre-evolution stage, which can evolve into its mega form, Mega Sceptile, via Key Stone.
A Greninja is featured as a playable character in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate .
Greninja is based on a frog, specifically a horned frog due to the horns it sports. The bumps on its elbows, knees, and head may be based on the bumps of toads. Its association with ninjutsu is inspired by the mythical ninja: Jiraiya , a Ninja who uses magic and could summon or transform into a giant toad. It may also be based on the rouge/thief class in some RPG games.
The Ash-Greninja variant carries design elements from Ash Ketchum's Kalos attire.
Mega Greninja's black skin resembles the archetypal ninja outfit and its habit of standing upside down underneath its giant water shuriken is a likely reference to the ninja's ability to impossibly hang on surfaces like ceilings. The large water shuriken itself resembles the one Ash-Greninja used in the anime. It also invoke the image of a frog standing on a lily pad.
Greninja comes from grenouille (French for "frog") and ninja .
Its Japanese name, Gekkouga, is a combination of the word geko (croak) and Kōga-ryū , the ancient school of ninjutsu. It may also derive from 月光 ( gekkō , moonlight).
Concept artwork of Talonflame.
Talonflame is a large hawk- or falcon-like bird Pokémon. It has flame-red feathers covering its head and wings, and specks of orange, resembling embers, on its underbelly and legs. The lower part of Talonflame's body is gray in color. Its large orange wings are tipped with black feathers. Its tail is black with yellow stripes. It now has powerful legs and sharp yellow, clawed talons. Its eyes are narrowed and yellow in color, and it has a short, sharp black beak.
Talonflame are known to be aggressive raptor avians. In the fever of an exciting battle, a Talonflame showers embers from the gaps between its feathers and takes to the air. Talonflame are known to hunt smaller bird Pokémon for prey such as Pikipek or Wingull .
Talonflame's feeathers are heat-insulated, which allows them to protect themselves during situations of intense heat. Therefore, firefighters from olden days used Talonflame wings as part of their uniforms for fire protection during rescue missions.
Taloneflame are also renowned for their 310 mph speed, which enables them to assault their prey precisely.
Talonflame evolves from Fletchinder starting at level 35 and is the final evolution of Fletchling .
In the fever of an exciting battle, it showers embers from the gaps between its feathers and takes to the air.
When attacking prey, it can reach speeds of up to 310 mph. It finishes its prey off with a colossal kick.
Its favorite foods are Wingull and Pikipek. It attacks with a powerful kick and grasps them firmly in its talons.
It zooms directly at its prey at flight speeds of close to 310 mph, while fiery embers scatter from gaps in its feathers.
Its tough wings don’t allow fire to pass through them. A long time ago, firefighters’ outfits were made from Talonflame wings.
Bird Pokémon make up most of its diet. It approaches at high speeds and smacks them down to the ground with its powerful kick.
Talonflame mainly preys upon other bird Pokémon. To intimidate opponents, it sends embers spewing from gaps between its feathers.
Talonflame dives toward prey at speeds of up to 310 mph and assaults them with powerful kicks, giving the prey no chance to escape.
It has top-notch flying capabilities. It flies around easily, even while carrying prey that weighs more than 220 lbs.
When it gets excited, it vents sparks from the gaps between its feathers. These unburnable feathers are used as a fireproof material.
In the fever of an exciting battle, it showers embers from the gaps between its feathers as it flies.
Talonflame is based on a peregrine falcon while also having elements of other predatory birds such as a goshawk or kestrel . Its pre-evolutions may make it based on a robin , specifically a Japanese robin due to its coloration. Its Fire typing may also make it based on a fire robin. Its relation to fire and speed may be based on the fact that fast moving objects are able to create heat or catch on fire.
Talonflame comes from talon and flame .
Its Japanese name, Faiarō, comes from fire and arrow .
Aegislash is a single sword, unlike its pre-evolution, that is slightly golden in color and has a strange, jagged-edged blade outlined in white. It has a single, purple eye with a white pupil and no sheath, but instead a rather large shield with circular patterns on it being held by its "arms", which are purple cloth. In Blade Form, the purple cloth has a distinct curved pattern and the shield has a black solid coloration in the center of the circular pattern. In Shield Form, the circular pattern on the shield lacks the black coloration in the center and is white instead.
According to the Pokédex , Aegislash was used as a protector of Kalosian nobility. It uses its spectral powers to control the thoughts and actions of people or Pokémon. It is also able to detect the innate qualities of leadership and whoever it recognizes is destined to be a king. Hence, Aegislash has long been seen as a symbol of royalty. Trained Aegislash seem to only respect trainers who display signs of leadership themselves.
While in Blade Form, Aegislash is able to slice through its opponents with its powerful blade-like body. While in Shield Form, Aegislash uses its steel body and a force field made out of spectral energy to protect itself against incoming attacks.
Despite its status as a royalty protector, Aegislash can be very unpredictable and manipulative. An Aegislash once served a king, but then decided to drain him of his life-force, thus causing the king's kingdom to fall apart. This Pokémon has even used its spectral powers to force humans and Pokémon to build a kingdom of its liking.
Its signature ability is Stance Change , which can be activated by using an attack to change into its Blade Forme. In order for it to change back, Aegislash must use its signature move, King's Shield to change it back to its Shield Forme.
Aegislash is also known for being able to harness spectral powers as hypnosis as a means to control subjects, and can also drain the vitality of those of its choosing.
Aegislash evolves from Doublade if it touches a Dusk Stone and is the final evolution of Honedge .
Generations of kings were attended by these Pokémon, which used their spectral power to manipulate and control people and Pokémon.
Apparently, it can detect the innate qualities of leadership. According to legend, whoever it recognizes is destined to become king.
Shield Form : In this defensive stance, Aegislash uses its steel body and a force field of spectral power to reduce the damage of any attack. Blade Form : This stance is dedicated to offense. It can cleave any opponent with the strength and weight of its steel blade.
Shield Form : Its potent spectral powers allow it to manipulate others. It once used its powers to force people and Pokémon to build a kingdom to its liking. Blade Form : Once upon a time, a king with an Aegislash reigned over the land. His Pokémon eventually drained him of life, and his kingdom fell with him.
Shield Form : Apparently, it can detect the innate qualities of leadership. According to legend, whoever it recognizes is destined to rule. Blade Form : This stance is dedicated to offense. It can cleave any opponent with the strength and weight of its steel blade.
Aegislash is based on a sword possessed by a ghost. With its ghost type, it may be based on Japanese myths of how katanas are said to act on free will while possessing the soul of their user. It might also be based on the legend of Excalibur , a legendary sword that can be pulled out from a large stone by a "true king" (who was Arthur ); this ties in with Aegislash's Pokédex entry stating that it can sense a person's true leadership skills and make that individual a king.
Aegislash comes from 'Aegis' (the shield Zeus and Athena used in Greek mythology) and 'slash'.
Its Japanese name, Girugarudo , likely comes from Gilgamesh (a hero from Mesopotamian mythology), 'gilded' (covered in a thin layer of gold or gold paint), and 'guard'.
Concept artwork of Sylveon
Sylveon is a quadrupedal, mammalian, feline Pokémon with some lagomorph traits. It has white colored fur covering most of its slender body. The top of its head is a vibrant shade of pink, and it has long pink rabbit-like ears with dark blue insides. Sylveon has a short, blunt cat-like muzzle and a small black nose. Sylveon's has pink and white bow-like features on its right ear and around its neck. Attached to the bow-like appendages are prehensile ribbon-like feelers with pink and blue tips that curl around the Pokémon's body. It has four slender legs, small pink-tipped paws, and feet with three visible toes on each but no visible claws. Sylveon has large cyan eyes with white pupils and two pointed teeth on its upper jaw, seen when its mouth is open (similar to Umbreon ). It has a slightly fluffy pink tail that curves inward slightly to form a crescent shape. Sylveon is the result of Eevee gaining two hearts of Affection , or in the case of Generation VIII onwards - having a close friendship with is Trainer, while knowing any Fairy-type move.
The Shiny variation has its coloration reversed, with cyan-blue being the prominent, and pink being secondary (on its ribbon-tips, and the insides of its ears), and reddish-pink eyes.
Known as a Pokémon with a pure heart, Sylveon use their ribbon-like feelers to hold hands with their Trainers and walk alongside them, enabling them to sense their feelings. Sylveon uses its Cute Charm Ability to hunt in the wild. They can bring even the most intense battles to a halt by using their feelers to exude an aura of peace and tranquility, causing any Pokémon near them to quickly lose their fighting spirit, before Sylveon strikes a powerful and unexpected attack.
Like other Eeveelutions , Sylveon are heavily implied to be carnivorous according its Pokédex entries.
When riled-up, Sylveon will become fearless and will not hesitate to strike, no matter how large its opponents are. Galarian fairy-tales have depicted tales of Sylveon defeating ferocious Dragon-type Pokémon (referring to the fact that Dragon-types are at a disadvantage against Fairy-types).
Similar to Espeon and Umbreon, Sylveon are most commonly found in urban areas, as it relies on humans to evolve it from Eevee with strong friendships. They are extremely rare in the wild, as with any Eeveelution in general.
Sylveon can exude a peacefully soothing aura from their ribbon-like organs to tranquilize their foes or prey. They can wrap and strangle quarrelers with their long extensible, prehensile feelers as well.
In earlier core games , Sylveon evolves from Eevee if leveled up while knowing a Fairy - type move and gaining at least two Affection hearts in Pokémon-Amie or Pokémon Refresh .
Since Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , Eevee evolves into Sylveon upon reaching a high friendship rating and knowing a Fairy -type move.
Sylveon first appeared in the short film Eevee & Friends . Sylveon also appeared in " Kindergarten Chaos! ", which belonged to a woman named Penelope . In the episode, it battled against Ash's Froakie and won after using the move Draining Kiss on Froakie, who had already been hit by Attract earlier in the battle, enthralling him with love. Sylveon, along with Pikachu , was later captured by Team Rocket and rescued by Ash and Randell. It was last seen with its trainer waving goodbye to Ash and his friends.
Valerie used a Sylveon against Ash's Fletchinder during the Gym battle.
Serena 's Eevee evolved into a Sylveon during a tag battle at a dance party in " Party Dancecapades! ".
Sylveon using its feelers to catch and throw Fletchinder in the anime
According to Motofumi Fujiwara , a key person at Game Freak , Eevee was based on a vague childhood experience he had. He described seeing an "indefinable creature" and that Eevee was based on a drawing of all that he could remember of it. Despite itself resembling various small animals, Eevee wasn't actually based on any distinct animal, with Fujiwara mentioning that the Pokémon reminded him of a fluffy cat or dog-like creature. All of its evolutions are based on the same design but are made to resemble their specific type .
Sylveon's overall appearance appears to take inspiration from cats, dogs, and especially rabbits, being primarily feline in general physiology and behavior like other Eeveelutions. Its lagomorph trait is prominent in its long, upright rounded rabbit/hare like ears. This aspect of Sylveon's design might draw inspiration from the Asian Moon Rabbit due to fairies being known for their activity under moonlight. The Asian Moon Rabbits are also known for being companions with Chang'e , a Chinese moon goddess that wears a robe with many ribbons, which may be the inspiration for Sylveon's ribbon motif.
Another inspiration for Sylveon's design might be the highly popular Japanese cryptid known as the " Cabbit ", a mythical hybrid of a domestic cat and a rabbit.
Sylveon comes from sylvan - meaning of the forest, due to legends of fairies residing in forests - and eon - a long period of time. Its name may also derive either from sylph or sylvan , both of which share the Latin root silva , the Latin word for forest. In mythology, forests are often depicted as places where fairies and nymphs can be found.
Its Japanese name, Nymphia, comes from nymph , a fairy-like deity from Greek mythology that resides in certain landforms.
Conept artwork of Xerneas.
Xerneas is a quadrupedal stag-like Pokémon with a blue and black coat. Along its back, it has multicolored spots that glow when it is in battle. It has long, gleaming yellow antlers that shine with all of the colors of the spectrum; its antlers resemble the roots of a tree. Its yellow-lined hooves are pointed, and it has a long blue and black tail.
When Xerneas is not active, its multicolored antlers stop glowing and turn cyan blue. In the glint of its eyes is the shape of the letter "X", hence the title of the game and when it stands, its body seems to be in the shape of an "X".
Xerneas is an elusive and mysterious creature. However, from little is known it is benevolent in nature, willing to share eternal life.
Xerneas normally can transform itself into a tree form to slumber for 1000 years. When it is awake, it is able to use its powers to cause its surrounding environment to flourish.
Despite its life-giving powers, a Xerneas has its limitations. When a deceased person and Pokémon such as Millis Steel , her father Argus Steel , Riot , Merilyn , Jessie and James and their Pokémon Millis's Chesnaught , Argus's Honedge , Doublade and Aegislash , Riot's Greninja , and Ninjask , Merilyn's Delphox and Yanmega , Meowth and Ash's Pikachu have become petrified too short and not too long, Xerneas can able to revive the deceased/petrified person Pokémon back to life. But, the other two known as Aila , and one of two Jan's Pokémon his Talonflame have become petrified for too long, Xerneas will not be able to revive the deceased/petrified person nor Pokémon back to life.
Xerneas does not evolve .
Legends say it can share eternal life. It slept for a thousand years in the form of a tree before its revival.
When the horns on its head shine in seven colors, it is said to be sharing everlasting life.
Xerneas made its first anime appearance in Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction along with Yveltal and Diancie .
A Xerneas appeared in Foggy Pokémon Orienteering! where it was first seen by Bonnie and Ash's Pikachu . After they were saved by the remaining Team Froakie members and Team Squirtle, the two groups saw it again before it retreated to the forest shadows.
Xerneas may be inspired by a deer, most notably the stag that grazes upon Yggdrasil or perhaps the Ceryneian Hind of Greek Mythology. It also shares aspects of the Tree of life . It may also take inspiration from Cernunnos , a deity that is often associated with antlers and life-replenishing properties. Cernunnos is also often depicted sitting with legs crossed, furthering this connecting with how an X-shape is often referred to as a 'cross'.
Xerneas also moves along the ground, possibly referencing the X-axis on a graph, being horizontal, as opposed to Yveltal who moves through the air, representing the Y-axis, being vertical.
Xerneas' name is pronounced similar to the Celtic god Cernunnos, a deity with antlers, as well as starting with the letter X to represent the X-axis.
Yveltal possesses avian and draconic traits. It has large wings and a tail that are red colored internally and black colored externally. It has intense teal-colored eyes with white pupils. When Yveltal straightens its arms in flight, it forms the shape of a Y. Its talons are also Y-shaped. Yveltal is part Flying-type, and based on the concept of the y-axis.
Yveltal represents destruction, such as natural disasters, while its counterpart, Xerneas, represents new life.
Yveltal acts as a natural force of nature as it causes destruction and natural disasters as its primary function, though not acting in this way malevolently. When Yveltal is about to reach the end of its lifespan, it steals the life force of everything living around it, then transforms into a cocoon to sleep.
Yveltal does not evolve .
When this legendary Pokémon's wings and tail feathers spread wide and glow red, it absorbs the life force of living creatures.
When its life comes to an end, it absorbs the life energy of every living thing and turns into a cocoon once more.
It's said that when its life comes to an end, it absorbs the life energy of every living thing and turns into a cocoon once more.
Yveltal made its first anime appearance Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction along with Xerneas and Diancie .
It made an actual anime appearance in The Legend of X, Y, and Z! .
Yveltal may be based on the eagle that guards Yggdrasil in Norse legend. It may also be based on a carrion bird such as a vulture, which represents death , or perhaps even a twisted inversion of a phoenix (with it symbolizing new life and rebirth while Yveltal represents oblivion and destruction). Its coloring and wing-design also make it similar to the devil's hand plant, a plant stated to "smell worse than death". Yveltal also moves through the air, possibly referencing the Y-axis on a graph, being vertical, as opposed to Xerneas who moves on the ground, representing the X-axis, being horizontal.
Its Shiny coloration resembles raw meat or a decaying carcass , with the white parts resembling exposed, bleached bone with some fragments of decomposed flesh (in red) still attached, which ties into its theme of death.
Yveltal and its Japanese name, Iberutaru, may come from Y (representing the Y-axis), "evil", "quetzal" (a type of bird), and "talon" (a bird's claws).
Zygarde is shown to be capable of gathering the energy of the land and focus it on its foes, damaging them. It has the ability to divide its cells from its body temporarily, using them as weapons, either as arrows or waves. Zygarde usually stays out of the sight of others. It has been referred to as a "guardian of the ecosystem" due to its role to defend the world's order and the " Z " [ citation needed ] due to its name. Zygarde keeps a close watch on the planet and on its two counterparts Xerneas and Yveltal , ensuring the equilibrium of the planet and the cycle of life and death are kept in check. Normally, Zygarde avoids getting involved in conflicts unless the ecosystem is in grave danger. As seen in the Pokémon anime , should Zygarde be affected by outside influence, its color changes from green to red.
Zygarde is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the moves Land's Wrath , Thousand Arrows , Thousand Waves , and Core Enforcer . It is also the Signature Ability that can have Aura Break and Power Construct as its Ability .
Its body in its 50% Forme is shaped like the letter "Z" and appears to be a snake. It has a green top half and a black bottom with 5 Pillar-like shapes on its back. It has no arms or legs and has a various amount of scales on its body. Zygarde has two compound eyes and green shapes under them. It has a tail which is flat.
Zygarde Complete Forme has a large, humanoid body with a long tail similar to Zygarde 50% Forme's body. The very tip of the tail can open up, making them appear to be a mouth. There are several flat protrusions around its head and triangular protrusions around its neck, giving it a crown-shaped appearance. On its face are three white hexagonal marks: one in the middle of its forehead with a line through it and two being that acting as eyes. There are an additional five green hexagons on its face: four along the bottom and one in the middle of a short protrusion on top. Each shoulder has two wings protruding from it. These wings all have a hexagon and an undulating pattern: blue on the right side and red on the left. The very tip of the wings can open up, making them appear to be a pair of "mouths" with red or blue patterns on the inside. It has multiple white protrusions on its body: three on each hand acting as claws, one on each knee, and one and the front of each foot. Additionally, there are green extensions surrounding its wrists and two under the white protrusions on its knees and feet. Its abdomen has a vertical, hexagonal pattern upon it with two thin, white, and vertical marks on either side. Across its chest is thin, zigzagging opening that fades between five colors: red, orange, white, cyan, and blue. The chest can open, revealing five cores of each color. Above this opening are two large green, hexagonal marks. When its wings and tail are extended, Zygarde Complete Forme resembles the Latin alphabet letter Z.
Zygarde 10% Forme has a relatively small, mostly black Dog-like body with a green "scarf" that continues beyond the neck. Its muzzle is black at the top and green elsewhere. Its eyes are white hexagons with a black outline and no discernible pupils; directly above the eyes are two small green hexagons which resemble eyebrows. On its forehead is a very thin, white ellipse. Its "scarf" is entirely green with a small hexagon connected to the bottom. This hexagon is either red or blue depending on which Core it is comprised of. On each of its legs are hexagonal protrusions, all the same color black as the legs themselves. On the front two legs, there are two. On the back legs are three protrusions, and on the left leg is a particularly long one made up of two hexagons. On each of its hind legs is another hexagonal shape, with a noticeable gap before a small square protrusion above it.
Zygarde Core is a part of the mind of Zygarde, and has a small and leafy-green gelatinous body comprised of a large, round head, a moderately-sized body, and a thin, hook-shaped bottom section which may be a tail. Its head is rounded except for a protruding, beak-shaped area at the bottom front which may be a nose or a mouth. Within its head is a single, oval eye which has a smaller black, oval pupil within it. Beside this eye is another white, semi-elliptic shape which may be a second eye. Within its midsection is a nearly regular hexagon. There are two known Zygarde Cores, one composed of a red hexagon and one composed of a blue hexagon. They are self-aware and can communicate via telepathy, monitoring the ecosystem around them. Zygarde Cores get their energy through photosynthesis.
Zygarde Cells make up Zygarde, and appears very similar to the Zygarde Core. Unlike the Core, it is flat, has a green pupil, and has a darker green, more elongated hexagon within its midsection. Unlike the Cores' hook-like bottom section, the Cells have a long and more noticeably tail-like back-end. The Cells lack minds of their own and are incapable of independent thought, and are entirely controlled by the Cores, which use them as "appendages" and "surveillance cameras" to keep an eye out of their surroundings.
Zygarde does not evolve , but its Complete Forme can Mega Evolve into Mega Zygarde using its Zygardite .
When the Kalos region's ecosystem falls into disarray, it appears and reveals its secret power.
It's hypothesized that it's monitoring those who destroy the ecosystem from deep in the cave where it lives.
50% Forme : This is Zygarde’s form when it has gathered 50% of its cells. It wipes out all those who oppose it, showing not a shred of mercy. 10% Forme : Its sharp fangs make short work of finishing off its enemies, but it’s unable to maintain this body indefinitely. After a period of time, it falls apart. Complete Forme : This is Zygarde’s form at times when it uses its overwhelming power to suppress those who endanger the ecosystem.
50% Forme : It’s thought to be monitoring the ecosystem. There are rumors that even greater power lies hidden within it. 10% Forme : This is Zygarde’s form when about 10% of its cells have been gathered. It runs across the land at speeds greater than 60 mph. Complete Forme : This is Zygarde’s 100% form. It has enough power to overwhelm even Xerneas or Yveltal.
50% Forme : This is Zygarde’s form when about half of its pieces have been assembled. It plays the role of monitoring the ecosystem. 10% Forme : This is Zygarde when about 10% of its pieces have been assembled. It leaps at its opponent’s chest and sinks its sharp fangs into them. Complete Forme : This is Zygarde’s perfected form. From the orifice on its chest, it radiates high-powered energy that eliminates everything.
50% Forme : Some say it can change to an even more powerful form when battling those who threaten the ecosystem. 10% Forme : Born when around 10% of Zygarde’s cells have been gathered from all over, this form is skilled in close-range combat. Complete Forme : Born when all of Zygarde’s cells have been gathered together, it uses force to neutralize those who harm the ecosystem.
50% Forme : It's hypothesized that it's monitoring those who destroy the ecosystem from deep in the cave where it lives. 10% Forme : This is Zygarde when about 10% of its pieces have been assembled. It leaps at its opponent's chest and sinks its sharp fangs into them. Complete Forme : Born when all of Zygarde's cells have been gathered together, it uses force to neutralize those who harm the ecosystem. Mega Zygarde : In response to people's emotions during an unprecedented crisis, Zygarde Mega Evolves and calms the situation with its unmatched power.
Each one of Zygarde's main forms are based on creatures from Norse mythology, most specifically the children of Angrboða , and Loki , these being Fenrir , Jörmungandr , and Hel to represent the 10%, 50%, and Complete forms respectively.
In its 10% Forme, Zygarde is most likely based on Fenrir, who is depicted as a wolf. The protrusion from its neck resembles a dog leash, but may also represent Gleipnir , a mighty rope that held Fenrir. It having one green paw and it's others being black may reference how Fenrir bit off the hand of Týr as revenge for not freeing him from the hold of Gleipnir.
In its 50% Forme, Zygarde is most likely based on Jörmungandr, who is often depicted as a serpentine being. Zygarde also resembles a snake that twists to look like the letter 'Z', going alongside the 'X' shape of Xerneas and 'Y' shape of Yveltal. Seeing as how it has connections with Xerneas and Yveltal and them having possibly being an inspiration for its Ground type. It may also be based on a nāga , a type of snake-like entity that is usually depicted as a human either with a snake-like body or having snakes cover them. Specifically, it seems to represent depictions of the nāga in Cambodia who are often depicted as having many heads (similarly to Zygarde 50%'s frill) that represent their traits. Its frill also may draw inspiration from a cobra.
In its Complete Forme, Zygarde is most likely based on European dragon and Hel, a humanoid who was the ruler of Helheim , which is the equivalent of the underworld (or 'realm of the dead', as stated in the original folklore). Overall, it also seems to resemble mechs in media as they are often depicted as humanoid and have similar transformation gimmicks to Zygarde, usually having a head or face-like appearance for their chest, with the Complete Forme's chest resembling the head of Zygarde's 50% Forme. The blue and red colors both might also reference the colors of Xerneas and Yveltal respectively. The line going across it's chest also has these colors while having white in the center, making the line resemble the flag of France , the region Kalos is based on and the region Zygarde originates from. As every Ultra Beast and member of the Light Trio is based on Roman Gods and planets, Zygarde could be based on Earth and Gaia , the Mother Goddess of Earth and nature in Greek Mythology. It also draws similarities from Golem , a legendary creature in Jewish mythology.
Zygarde's Cell and Core formes are possibly based on cells and planaria . The Cell forme may be based on the nucleus of a cell , often shown as a large, round, differently colored part of a cell. They also maybe based on neurons .
Its Shiny coloration may take inspiration from white blood cells , a part of the body that helps fight off disease, similarly to how Zygarde is often depicted as showing its true power in times when its environment goes into disarray.
Zygarde comes from the letter "Z" and the Z-axis, "zygote" (a type of cell), garde (French for "guard") and zygotos (divided, representing Zygarde's divided cell forms).
Concept artwork of Diancie and Mega Diancie.
Diancie is a distinctly feminine fairy-like Mythical Pokémon with a gray rocky body embedded with bright pink crystals and gemstones. Diancie is the result of a mutated Carbink . Diancie wears a white cloak-like garment with long white sleeves from which its tiny gray hands protrude. Diancie has a golden collar around its neck, a pink diamond on its chest, and a crown-like headdress of pink gems upon its head. In the center of its forehead, it bears a large round, cut diamond that is bright pink in color. It has bright red eyes and small pointed ears. The bottom of its body is composed of a large chunk of rock with a pink crystal embedded in its side.
Diancie possesses a Mega Evolution . Mega Diancie wears a much longer white cloak; attached to its cloak are long white streamer-like ribbons with small pink diamonds dangling from the ends. Mega Diancie's crystal headdress becomes distinctly larger and more extravagant, and the large diamond atop its head changes its shape from round to slightly heart-shaped. The underside of Mega Diancie's body resembles a great crystal chandelier, composed of many large pink diamond crystals. It has small golden feet, and golden rings around its neck and waist. Its long thin gray arms can be seen, as it no longer has sleeves on its garments.
It is believed to rule over an entire underground kingdom of jewels called the Diamond Domain , served by loyal Carbink. Diancie oversees the legendary Diamond Domain and makes sure that it always remains hidden from those who intended to loot it or steal from it. It also is in charge of creating the Heart Diamond, a mystical gemstone that, according to legend, is the sole source of energy that allows the Diamond Domain to continue to exist.
Diancie is able to create diamonds by compressing the carbon in the atmosphere between its hands. It is the only Pokémon able to learn the move, Diamond Storm .
Diancie does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Diancie using its Diancite .
In Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction , Ash and his Pikachu attempt to help a Diancie and make it the Princess of the Carbink group in a area called the Diamond Domain . [2]
Diancie is based on a carbuncle , a fairy with a jewel on its forehead. Its design could be a pun on a "princess cut" diamond.
Diancie comes from diamond and fairy or fancy .
Hoopa Confined is a small Pokémon, who wears yellow rings around its horns and belly. Its eyes are green and its body is painted pink and violet. When transformed into Hoopa Unbound, it is a large, purplish-gray genie-like being. It has triangular red eyes, a long tail with a spike at the end, six arms and a ring in its chest. It has big, spiky red hair in a ponytail and big horns with rings held tightly around them, and a red beard.
The mythical Hoopa is said to be a troublemaking trickster that can open portals to other dimensions with its hoop. It is thought to use this ability to cause interdimensional mischief, though some believe that it also uses it to hoard objects that catch its interest in some unknown realm. Long ago, an ancient desert civilization was said to have sealed Hoopa's true power away in an artifact known as the Prison Bottle. Opening the bottle would restore its strength for a short time; in this form, known as Unbound Hoopa, it becomes a monstrous, six-handed beast that would be able to transport anything between dimensions. Legends say that this gigantic creature once carried an entire castle of gold along with it through a hyperspace hole because of its greed. Luckily, this transformation is only temporary; after some time, the Prison Bottle will reabsorb its power and Hoopa will once again become Confined. It is thought that Confined Hoopa passes its time by playing tricks on unwary beings across dimensions.
As Hoopa Confined, when given the Prison Bottle , it transforms into Hoopa Unbound for three days, or until put in the PC. Hoopa is also known for being able to travel across dimensions with its hoop.
Hoopa does not evolve .
It gathers things it likes and pushes them through its loop to teleport them to a secret place.
This troublemaker sends anything and everything to faraway places using its loop, which can warp space.
In its true form, it possess a huge amount of power. Legends of its avarice tell how it once carried off an entire castle to gain the treasure hidden within.
It is said to be able to seize anything it desires with its six rings and six huge arms. With its power sealed, it is transformed into a much smaller form.
Confined : It uses loops to gather things it likes and take them to its secret home. It also teleports through a loop. Unbound : This is Hoopa's true form, in which it has regained its sealed powers. The hole in its chest is said to connect to another dimension.
Hoopa appears in Hoopa and the Clash of Ages .
Hoopa appears in Sahra Town inside the Djinn's Bottle . The player can take the Djinn's Bottle to a dungeon and use it to summon Hoopa, who will randomly appear in Confined or Unbound Forme. When talked to in a dungeon, Hoopa can summon a random Mythical or Legendary Pokémon, though Hoopa can fail and summon an enemy Pokémon instead on occasion. If there is a Monster House on the floor, Hoopa cannot be summoned. Additionally, during a boss battle, Hoopa will not be able to summon another Pokémon.
Hoopa (Pokémon UNITE)
Hoopa is based on traditional depictions of genies, being connected to a bottle and having magical powers . It may also be based on Nezha , a multi-armed trickster deity from Taoism as is often depicted as holding or wearing rings. Its rings also appear to be based on portals or wormholes.
In its Unbound Form, it may take inspiration from Shakti , a Hindu deity said to be made of cosmic energy and have multiple arms. It also appears to be based on depictions of devils due to its horns and sharp-tipped tail. It also may be refrencing Alf Layla wa-Layla from Sonic due to both of them having 6 arms.
Hoopa derives from hoop and possibly also hoopla (commotion).
Volcanion is a maroon, quadruped Pokémon with blue and yellow markings on its body. It has blue eyes and a sharp yellow mustache. It has two "arms" with blue circles and it has four yellow diamond-shaped markings on its chest. It has four huge legs, with three claws extended on each foot. Its tail is short and thick.
In order to conceal itself and vanish, Volcanion releases plumes of steam. It has been said to inhabit certain mountain areas that are considered forbidden for humans to walk. Some people believe that this Pokémon may dislike humans because it was alive to witness the horrible destruction that the great war of Kalos left behind 3,000 years ago.
Possessing a specialized organ that is actually its arms, Volcanion is able to instantly convert water vapor into steam. The converted steam is launched at high pressure, having enough strength to destroy mountains.
Volcanion is the only known Pokémon capable of learning Steam Eruption.
Volcanion does not evolve .
It expels its internal steam from the arms on its back. It has enough power to blow away a mountain.
It lets out billows of steam and disappears into the dense fog. It's said to live in mountains where humans do not tread.
Volcanion in the 19th movie.
Volcanion appeared in the movie, Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel .
Volcanion seems to based on felines, specifically big cats like lions and tigers which may lead it to possibly being based on Komainu , statues that are often carved to depict these animals. Its mechanical features resemble a tank , and its typing seems to be based on geysers or steam engines , with its arms resembling the pumps of an engine. Alternately, its steam appendages when put together makes it resemble a teapot or kettle , with its Shiny variation making it look like a golden teapot.
Its nature as a Legendary, including its much more elusive rareness and it tying into being a representation of the natural forces of the world, refers to the hydro geothermal and the evaporation-condensation environmental process of the Earth.
Volcanion comes from volcano and lion , or a possible deformation of the word cannon or engine .
Concept artwork of Rowlet.
Rowlet is a round owl-like Pokémon with sandy-colored feathers and a darker white underbelly. Like real-life owls, it has a facial disk, an area of brighter white around its eyes. Said eyes are black with white pupils. Its beak is also white on top, but the bottom portion is orange. Underneath, the Pokémon has two short, yet strong orange talons for legs. On its chest, it has a small 'bow' in the form of two leaves, while in back, a single green leaf hangs down to form a sort of tail.
Rowlet is a crafty Pokémon that uses the art of stealth to its advantage. Using its delicate wings, it silently draws near its targets and viciously attacks them with sharp feathers and kicks before they even notice it. It's also clever enough to use tactics: if an enemy is far away, it may send its sharp feathers flying rather than getting close. If the foe draws near, it'll switch and attack with kicks instead. At night, it glides through the air on the hunt for prey, while in the day, it sleeps and builds up the energy it'll use for hunting. In battle, it has a tendency to turn its head around to look at its Trainer, showcasing a display of its observational skills.
Rowlet evolves into Dartrix starting at level 17 and then evolves into Decidueye starting at level 34.
This wary Pokémon uses photosynthesis to store up energy during the day, while becoming active at night.
Silently it glides, drawing near its targets. Before they even notice it, it begins to pelt them with vicious kicks.
It sends its feathers, which are as sharp as blades, flying in attack. Its legs are strong, so its kicks are also formidable.
It feels relaxed in tight dark places and has been known to use its Trainer's pocket or bag as a nest.
At a distance, it launches its sharp feathers while flying about. If the enemy gets too close, Rowlet switches tactics and delivers vicious kicks.
During the day, it builds up energy via photosynthesis. At night, it flies silently through the sky on the prowl for prey.
Flies noiselessly on delicate wings. It has mastered the art of deftly launching dagger-sharp feathers from those same wings.
Silently it glides, streaking toward its targets to get close to them. Before they even notice it, it begins to pelt them with vicious kicks.
It feels relaxed in tight, dark places and has been known to nestle into its Trainer’s bag or the front of their jacket.
Bold indicates this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. Italic indicates an evolved or alternate form of this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. * indicates this move requires chain breeding. ◊ indicates the father must learn this move in a previous generation. ♈ indicates the father must learn this move via a TM.
Ash's Rowlet.
Rowlet first appeared in " First Catch in Alola, Ketchum-Style! " under the ownership of Ash .
An ancient Rowlet in Sinnoh.
As Ash and Goh came to the Sinnoh region for the Sinnoh fair, Ash caught the Rowlet from the Alola region by using the old fashioned Poké Ball of the Sinnoh region version.
Rowlet is primarily based on a barn owl . Considering the Alola region's Hawaiian-themed setting, it may also be based on the native pueo owl , where they are known to live in the forests and grasslands of the Hawaiian archipelago. Theme-wise, it may be based on the alchemical symbol for salt, which was associated with the earth; plants are often associated with earth. Rowlet's round, somewhat bisected body somewhat resembles the symbol used for salt (🜔).
Rowlet may come from ruffle and owlet , a baby owl. It may also incorporate round , arrow , or rowan (a type of tree, referring to a Grass type Pokémon).
Mokuroh may be derived from 木 Moku (Japanese for wood) and 梟 Fukurō (Japanese for owl).
Concept artwork of Litten.
Litten is a small kitten-like Pokémon, with black fur. It has a short nose, red eyes with yellow sclera and short ears with gray insides. It has two stripes on its head with a vertical line intersecting them. The lower part of its face is red with two tufts of fur on each side. It has a long tail with a tuft of fur at the end. When it curves its back, three pointed tufts with red tips show up along the spine.
Litten always appears to be very calm, and does not show emotion. Since they don't bond with many people, Litten are hardheaded and stubborn. However, when its trainer and partners get into a pinch, it will make an effort to save everyone it trusts and cares about.
Litten spends most of its time grooming its fur; any pieces of loose fur are ingested and used as fuel for fire-based attacks. However, Litten can be a bit wary and will use its sharp claws to lash out at any human that tries to pet it without gaining its trust.
Since its fur is oily, it can breathe out fireballs after licking its fur.
Litten evolves into Torracat starting at level 17 and then evolves into Incineroar starting at level 34.
While grooming itself, it builds up fur inside its stomach. It sets the fur alight and spews fiery attacks, which change based on how it coughs.
It doesn’t allow its emotions to be easily seen. Earning its trust takes time. It prefers solitude.
If you try too hard to get close to it, it won’t open up to you. Even if you do grow close, giving it too much affection is still a no-no.
Its coats regrows twice a year. When the time comes, Litten sets its own body on fire burn away the old fur
It spends even the smallest amount of downtime grooming its fur with its tongue. Loose fur gathers in its stomach and serves as fuel for fiery moves.
Trying to pet Litten before it trusts you will result in a nasty scratch from its sharp claws. Be careful.
Bold indicates this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. Italic indicates an evolved or alternate form of this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. * indicates this move requires chain breeding. ◊ indicates the father must learn this move in a previous generation. ♈ indicates the father must learn this move via a TM.
|That's Why the Litten Is a Scamp!]]" where it cares for an elderly Stoutland .
Litten is based on tabby cat and black cat kittens. Its coloration also resembles that of tigers (as its final evolution, Incineroar, is based on one). Theme-wise, Litten may be based on the alchemical prime sulfur, associated with fire as it is flammable and often found around volcanoes, Litten's eyes and the red marking on its forehead forming a similar symbol to the one used for black sulfur (🜏).
Litten comes from lit (on fire), little and kitten . In fact, it’s possible to get the name Litten through a spoonerism between the parts of its name, as Shel Silverstein accidentally did years and years before Litten existed in a book full of spoonerisms, but sadly, he passed away before discovering that he and GameFreak had both independently created kittens named Litten while in different countries and over seventeen years apart .
Nyabī likely comes from ニャ ( nya , "meow" in Japanese), 火 ( bi , fire), tabby , and possibly baby .
Popplio is a somewhat chubby blue sea lion Pokémon. It has large eyes and a long white snout with a pink round nose and black whiskers. It has two teardrop-shaped ears on each side of its head. Around its neck is a light blue clown collar which extends out past its shoulders. It has four flippers which consist of two large ones with white markings isolating its toes and two small rear ones.
Popplio will frequently work on blowing bubbles and try to get them larger than their bodies. Instead of walking, Popplio will generate and use their bubbles as a springboard, popping as they leap on top of them in order to get a bounce out of them as they pop, in turn allowing them to perform acrobatic stunts in their leaps to please those they enjoy playing with.
These Pokémon are also playful when not practicing; they love to perform acrobatic tricks with their bubbles in front of others, which also serve as trial runs for new strategies in battle. After gaining height by bouncing on these bubbles, they can attack opponents from the air in highly technical maneuvers. They can also pop their bubbles to damage foes with surprising force. Because of their dedication, playfulness, and acrobatic capabilities in battle, Popplio make an excellent choice of starter Pokémon for any Alolan trainer.
It can blow out many balloons with its nose. It can also swim at 25 mph (40 km/h).
Popplio evolves into Brionne starting at level 17 and then evolves into Primarina starting at level 34.
This Pokémon snorts body fluids from its nose, blowing balloons to smash into its foes. It’s famous for being a hard worker.
This Pokémon can control water bubbles. It practices diligently so it can learn to make big bubbles.
The balloons it inflates with its nose grow larger and larger as it practices day by day.
Popplio gets out on top of its bouncy water balloons to jump higher. Its quite an acrobatic fighter.
It creates special bouncy balloons to send at its opponents. When the balloons pop, the sheer force of their bursting is what deals damage.
If Popplio want to create big, powerful balloons, they must be persistent. It takes daily practice for these Pokémon to develop their skills.
This Pokémon can control balloons made of water. It practices diligently so it can learn to make big balloons.
Bold indicates this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. Italic indicates an evolved or alternate form of this Pokémon receives STAB from this move. * indicates this move requires chain breeding. ◊ indicates the father must learn this move in a previous generation. ♈ indicates the father must learn this move via a TM.
Lana's Popplio.
Popplio first appeared in Alola to New Adventure! under the ownership of Lana . She later evolved into Brionne in Evolving Research! and into Primarina in The One that Didn't Get Away! .
Popplio is a combination of the classical depictions of a performing sea lion and a circus clown, with the light-blue collar around its neck, white muzzle, and pink clown-like nose contributing to its circus clown design and it's acrobatics skills such as balancing balls with their noses. It could also be based on the Hawaiian monk seal due to Alola being based on Hawaii or the Hooded seal and its inflatable nasal cavity due to Popplio being able to create bubbles with its nose. Theme-wise, Popplio may also be based on the chemical element mercury , which in alchemy was one of the three primes, as mercury and water are both liquids. When standing on its tail and extending its fins, Popplio resembles the symbol used for both the planet Mercury and, in alchemy, the element mercury (☿).
Popplio comes from pop (as in popping bubbles) or pōpō (Hawaiian for ball) and ilio-holo-i-ka-uaua (a species of Hawaiian monk seal) or leo (Greek for "lion", possibly referencing the sea lion).
In its Midday Form, Lycanroc resembles a quadrupedal wolf, having brown fur with white markings around its paws, neck, and tail. It has a long bushy tail, pointed ears, and blue eyes, and the pebbles around its neck as a Rockruff have now grown into long, rocky spikes resembling the rays of a sun.
In its Midnight Form, Lycanroc is a slouched bipedal wolf, with dark red fur and a thick mane that runs from its back to the top of its head. It has a short, stubby tail, folded ears and eyes that glow bright red with no visible iris or sclera. A fringe of black fur hangs over its face, and two pointed rocks emerge from either side of its waist, which is similar to the extinct thylacine's stripes.
In its Dusk Form, Lycanroc resembles the Midday form. It has orange fur, green eyes, and a mane that runs from its back to its head, which resembles the both the Midday Form and Midnight Form's mane. Whenever it attacks, its eyes can turn red to make it look like the Midnight Form.
As Rockruff nears evolution , it becomes more aggressive and prone to howling loudly. It then runs away and disappears, only returning to its trainer once it has evolved. In Paldea , farmers use Lycanroc as guard dogs in order to protect their crops from Deerling .
The midday form of Lycanroc tend to live in mountains. They are solitary hunters and avoid making packs as to prevent disputes. However, they are fiercely loyal to a trainer that had accepted them during their rambunctious time as a Rockruff.
The midnight form of Lycanroc prefers to let its enemy get the first hit before delivering a devastating counterattack. They are predisposed to violence and easy to get excited by a worthy opponent, signified with their glowing eyes. They will not accept trainers that they feel are poor battlers or give questionable orders.
The dusk form of Lycanroc are usually cool, calm and collected, and very loyal to the trainers they deeply trusted, as well as containing a powerful fighting spirit. When a battle gets heated, they choose to attack directly or use counterattacks that inflict double damages on their opponents. Overall, the dusk form of Lycanroc has a mixed personality, with traits from both the Midday and Midnight forms.
Lycanroc evolves from Rockruff starting at level 25. Rockruff evolves into a different form of Lycanroc depending on the time of day. If it evolves in the daytime, it will become the Midday Form; whereas if it evolves in the nighttime, it will become the Midnight Form. During the Evening Twilight, only Rockruff who has the event-exclusive ability Own Tempo will evolve into the Dusk Form during 17:00 to 17:59.
Midday Form : Its quick movements confuse its enemies. Well equipped with claws and fangs, it also uses the sharp rocks in its mane as weapons. Midnight Form : The more intimidating the opponent it faces, the more this Pokémon’s blood boils. It will attack with no regard for its own safety.
Midday Form : When properly raised from a young age, it will become a trustworthy partner that will absolutely never betray its Trainer. Midnight Form : It goads its enemies into attacking, withstands the hits, and in return, delivers a headbutt, crushing their bones with its rocky mane.
Midday Form : The rocks in its mane are sharper than a knife. Fragments that break off are treasured as good luck charms. Midnight Form : They live alone without forming packs. They will only listen to orders from Trainers who can draw out their true power. Dusk Form : This strange form is the result of its evolving at dusk. It's very rare in Alola.
Midday Form : The sharp rocks in its mane can cut like knives. Lycanroc wears its prey down by degrees before finishing them off. Midnight Form : It has no problem ignoring orders it doesn’t like. It doesn’t seem to mind getting hurt at all - as long as it can finish off its opponent. Dusk Form : Bathed in the setting sun of evening, Lycanroc has undergone a special kind of evolution. An intense fighting spirit underlies its calmness.
Midday Form : This Lycanroc is calm and cautious. The rocks jutting from its mane are razor sharp. Midnight Form : This form of Lycanroc is reckless. It charges headlong at its opponents, attacking without any care about what injuries it might receive. Dusk Form : This form of Lycanroc is normally calm and quiet. Once a battle begins, however, this Pokémon displays a ferocious fighting spirit.
Midday Form : With swift movements, this Pokémon gradually backs its prey into a corner. Lycanroc's fangs are always aimed toward opponents' weak spots. Midnight Form : It's invigorated by powerful opponents–the stronger the better. A full-force headbutt from one of these Lycanroc can shatter giant boulders. Dusk Form : These Pokémon have both calm and ferocious qualities. Their temperamental nature makes them a difficult species to raise.
Midday Form : Lycanroc attacks its prey with its sharp claws and fangs. It loyally obeys the instructions of a Trainer it trusts. Midnight Form : This Pokémon uses its rocky mane to slash any who approach. It will even disobey its Trainer if it dislikes the orders it was given. Dusk Form : Normally this Pokémon doesn’t even bark, but once it enters battle, it will relentlessly drive the opponent into a corner.
Midday Form : It has a calm and collected demeanor. It swiftly closes in on its prey, then slices them with the rocks in its mane. Midnight Form : This Lycanroc has an extremely vicious temperament. It will happily sustain injuries for the sake of taking down its opponent. Dusk Form : These Pokémon have both calm and ferocious qualities. It's said that this form of Lycanroc is the most troublesome to raise.
Ash's Rockruff evolves into a Dusk Form Lycanroc in Rising from the Ruins! , where it was with a Midday and Midnight forms of Lycanroc.
All of the forms of Lycanroc appear to be based on the extinct Japanese wolf which was associated with rocks and mountains. Wolves are also sometimes referred to as "yamainu" in Japan, which translates to "mountain dog".
Its Midday form is based on regular wolves, especially the Japanese wolf. Its duality with its Midnight form may be based on the "voluntary" werewolf (a version that changes from man to wolf at will and keeps control of its mind).
Its Midnight form is based on werewolves. Its appearance of red eyes, bared teeth and folded ears resembling a stereotypical "mad dog". Its duality with its Midday form may be based on the "involuntary" werewolf (a version that turns into a monstrous man-wolf hybrid on a full moon and becomes a vicious rampaging beast).
Its Dusk form appears similar to wolves and dingos while also sharing traits of its Midday and Midnight counterparts.
Lycanroc comes from lycanthrope (another name for a werewolf) and rock .
Toxapex retains its previous evolution's color scheme of purple and blue. Toxapex is larger than its pre-evolution, but interestingly its actual body of which the tentacles are attached to is now smaller and is now hanging instead of being on the ground. Toxapex now has twelve large tentacles on its head, ten used to crawl and two that hang open in order to act as arms and reveal its body. Toxapex also has a crown of thorns placed around a larger center spike.
Toxapex, as a predator, is slow, being only able to crawl along the seafloor and beaches in search of prey. Its favorite food is Corsola, possibly referencing the fact that the two creatures they are based on the Thorn Of Crowns Sea Star and Coral are predator and prey in reality. In theory, Toxapex will wait for prey to come by, hiding itself behind rocks or under sand, until it is either in arms or tentacle, reach or at least close enough to be chase worthy. By deploying its toxic spikes as its main attack, anyone who approaches it will be mowed by the claws and even get poisoned.
In order to survive colder waters like those in Galar , Toxapex can protect themselves by forming domes with their legs. This blocks the flow of tides, which make them feel very comfortable and safe within their own bunker.
Toxapex are also known for competing with Bruxish over oceanic areas full of warm currents, but they tend to have the odds against them, owing to their disadvantageous Poison -type against Bruxish's more advantageous Psychic -types.
Highly venomous and can protect itself by closing its open tentacles and extending its poisonous spikes to create a toxic barrier ( Baneful Bunker ) that is next to impervious. One can also sense the flow of tides with its spikes to monitor their surroundings.
Apparently, its poison, which is produced by its poison sac, lasts for 72 hours and has lingering side effects. Even a Pokémon as large as Wailord will suffer for at least three days after being inflicted by its poison.
Toxapex evolves from Mareanie starting at level 38.
Toxapex crawls along the ocean floor on its 12 legs. It leaves a trail of Corsola bits scattered in its wake.
Those attacked by Toxapex’s poison will suffer intense pain for three days and three nights. Post-recovery, there will be some aftereffects.
To attack, this Pokémon sends toxic spikes flying at its enemies. Ones that come close get mown down by the claws on its feet.
With its 12 legs, it creates a dome to shelter within. The flow of the tides doesn’t affect Toxapex in there, so it’s very comfortable.
To survive in the cold waters of Galar, this Pokémon forms a dome with its legs, enclosing its body so it can capture its own body heat.
Within the poison sac in its body is a poison so toxic that Pokémon as large as Wailord will still be suffering three days after it first takes effect.
Toxapex in the anime.
Toxapex may be based on a sea urchin or a Crown-of-thorns starfish as well as a safety dome. Its predation of Corsola may be based on how Crown-of-thorns starfish destroy coral reefs by feasting on the growing polyps.
Toxapex derives from the words toxic (highly poisonous), pecks (a short word for sharp spines) and apex meaning "apex predator". An apex predator is an animal that is at the top of a food chain, as it eats Corsola and is relatively strong. This is also its Spanish name.
Concept art of Mimikyu.
The overall structure of the disguise does resemble Pikachu , but the body is triangle-like shaped it has no feet and no arms, yet some black at the bottom revealing a little bit of the real Mimikyu. The disguise is made of cloth. 2 holes appear in the body of the costume, which are the actual eyes of Mimikyu. it has very crooked ears and the skin is a grayish-beige color. Its "tail" is made of wood and has a grayish-brown color. The disguise's "face" only consists of poorly drawn eyes, cheeks, and a zigzag mouth.
Underneath the cloth appears to be a black shadowy mass with two glowing eyes, but it is unknown what it looks like in full, as glimpsing it causes immediate catatonic shock, if not death. In actuality, Mimikyu is only approximately the size of its disguise's torso, as there appears to be nothing organic inside of the rag's head.
official concept art revealing mimikyu in 2024
Shiny Mimikyu's disguise turns completely gray. Its "tail" and eyes remain unchanged.
Due to its clothed appearance, it was previously mistaken as an ordinary ghost in ragged cloth until it was recently identified as a Pokémon species.
Apparently, about 20 years ago, it was said that Pikachu is more popular than them, so they dressed up like Pikachu in order to become more popular among Trainers .
In the case of one notable Mimikyu in the anime, it has been shown to harbor an immense, almost psychopathic hatred toward all Pikachu, especially Ash's . This may not be the case for all Mimikyu however, and it is likely that different Mimikyu have different attitudes toward Pikachu.
Mimikyu is said to be a cursed being, and those who have seen under their rags have all died painfully out of shock. In the anime, Meowth saw Mimikyu's true form several times (though partially) and fainted several times before being returned to his senses soon after.
However, most Mimikyu mean no actual harm, and in fact only want to make friends with humans. As such, they hide their true forms under a costume representing what people loved the most; Pikachu, though when attacked, they will show one or both of their claws that hide underneath the cloth they wear and strike back.
Mimikyu does not evolve .
Disguised Form : Its actual appearance is unknown. A scholar who saw what was under its rag was overwhelmed by terror and died from the shock. Busted Form : After going to all the effort of disguising itself, its neck was broken. Whatever is inside is probably unharmed, but it's still feeling sad.
Disguised Form : A lonely Pokémon, it conceals its terrifying appearance beneath an old rag so it can get closer to people and other Pokémon. Busted Form : If its neck is broken or its rag torn during an attack, it works through the night to patch it.
Disguised Form : Although it’s a quiet, lonely Pokémon, if you try to look at what’s under its rag, it will become agitated and resist violently. Busted Form : It stands in front of a mirror, trying to fix its broken neck as if its life depended on it. It has a hard time getting it right, so it’s crying inside.
Disguised Form : A gust of wind revealed what hides under this Pokémon’s rag to a passing Trainer, who went home and died painfully that very night. Busted Form : Sad that its true identity may be exposed, Mimikyu will mercilessly seek revenge on any opponent that breaks its neck.
Disguised Form : It wears a rag fashioned into a Pikachu costume in an effort to look less scary. Unfortunately, the costume only makes it creepier. Busted Form : There will be no forgiveness for any who reveal that it was pretending to be Pikachu. It will bring the culprit down, even at the cost of its own life.
Disguised Form : There was a scientist who peeked under Mimikyu's old rag in the name of research. The scientist died of a mysterious disease. Busted Form : Its disguise made from an old rag allowed it to avoid an attack, but the impact broke the neck of the disguise. Now everyone knows it's a Mimikyu.
Disguised Form :This Pokémon lives in dark places untouched by sunlight. When it appears before humans, it hides itself under a cloth that resembles a Pikachu. Busted Form :Even as it struggles beneath the cloth to repair the broken neck of its disguise, Mimikyu keeps up its impersonation of Pikachu.
Disguised Form :Mimikyu was only recently identified as a Pokémon. Previously, people thought it was just a ghost wearing a cloth. Busted Form :It has taken damage and can no longer hold the head of its cloth disguise upright. For as long as it lives, Mimikyu will never forget its attacker.
Mimikyu is based on a badly-made Pikachu doll. It may also be based on ghost costumes made from a white sheet with eye-holes. Its true form is based on legends about darkness clouds that make people vanish or die. It may also draw inspiration from Lovecraftian beings , creatures created by author H. P. Lovecraft that are said to kill or cause mental insanity simply by their appearance alone. It could also be based on the Bugul Noz , a kind and gentle fairy that was lonely due to its ugly appearance.
Mimikyu's name may be based on the words " mimic you " and meikyuu (mystery). It may also be based on the Japanese onomatopoeia for squeaking ( kyukyu ).
Tapu Koko's inner body is solid black in color with white markings on the chest and face. Yellow rings are present on its shoulders and yellow markings appear on its eyes as well. Its lower body is orange and consists entirely of five feather-like appendages. Tapu Koko's hair, similarly, is orange with a yellow tip in the shape of a mohawk. Its arms are solid with a two fingered hand on each in the shape of a bird's beak, which are connected to Tapu Koko's shell. The shell is a yellow, egg-shaped dome with multiple geometric patterns on the shell. On each side of the shell there are small wing-like carvings. When closed, Koko's shell resembles a yellow rooster head.
Although they are known as the guardian, it does not mean that they often help people. They have strong curiosity, and likes to decide victory by fighting with other Pokémon. It is said that Tapu Koko stores its electrical energy by covering itself with its shell. In " A Recipe for Success! ", Tapu Koko also eats by covering itself with its shell.
Tapu Koko does not evolve .
This guardian deity of Melemele is brimming with curiosity. It summons thunderclouds and stores their lightning inside its body.
It confuses its enemies by flying too quickly for the eye to follow. It has a hair-trigger temper but forgets what made it angry an instant later.
Although it's called a guardian deity, if a person or Pokémon puts it in a bad mood, it will become a malevolent deity and attack.
The lightning-wielding guardian deity of Melemele, Tapu Koko is brimming with curiosity and appears before people from time to time.
Tapu Koko appears to be based on a totem pole stylized as a bird. With the Tapus being similar to the four major Hawaiian gods, Tapu Koko may be based on Kūka'ilamoku, the god of war, as Tapu Koko is shown to become fierce when angered. Tapu Koko also resides on Melemele Island and has yellow in its design. Melemele Island's real life counterpart, the island Oahu, has golden yellow as its official color.
Tapu Koko comes from tapu (Hawaiian for "holy") and kokō (the Hawaiian onomatopoeia for a rooster's call).
Solgaleo is a large, white Pokémon resembling a muscular white lion with shining metallic fur. It has a blunt muzzle with a blue-gray nose and pale blue eyes. The top half of its face is a deep blue area that shows a constantly changing starscape. Four yellow spikes frame Solgaleo's head like a crown and two more pairs of spikes adorn either side of its lower jaw, and each spike separates large tufts of Solgaleo's mane. Solid ridges—red nearest Solgaleo's head and yellow farther away—poke out of each tuft along the middle, except on the tufts on its cheeks and chin, with the topmost part wrapping around the tip of the tuft. Overall, its mane creates the impression of a stylized sun. Around each leg is a dark orange band, and there is a black spot on each foot. It has three black toes on each foot with long yellow claws. At the tip of its tail is a large black spot with a thin yellow rim.
When Solgaleo enters its Radiant Sun phase, a light blue symbol similar to a compass rose appears on its forehead and the starscape turns to streaks of light. The metallic fur on its body glows a pale yellow and all other parts of its body except its nose turn bright yellow.
Solgaleo has a bold and fiery personality, contrasting its counterpart Lunala's calm and mysteriously ghostly demeanor. It will summon the sun to battle its opponents, crashing into them while roaring loudly. It strongly opposes Necrozma and resists its light being absorbed by it; it will battle fiercely to avoid being fused with it. It is friendly toward its lunar counterpart Lunala, coexisting with it as the sun and moon naturally balance each other with day and night (different than a few other main-series legendaries which are enemies of each other). It will open up Ultra Wormholes if needed to travel through cosmic dimensions, and will bolt swiftly through space on its strong legs.
Known as the "beast that devours the sun," Solgaleo has long been honored as an emissary of the sun (太陽の化身 Taiyō no keshin , lit. "incarnation of the sun"). Its body is capable of holding a vast amount of energy and glows when active. Solgaleo can create Ultra Wormholes to travel to and from Ultra Space. Solgaleo along with its counterpart Lunala can create Cosmog.
It is said that the intense light Solgaleo radiates from its body's surface is capable to turning the darkest night into midday; because of this, Solgaleo is often mistaken to be the sun. It can also influence a Rockruff 's evolution into Lycanroc 's Midday form with solar energy.
Solgaleo evolves from Cosmoem in Pokémon Sun , Pokémon Ultra Sun , Pokémon Sword Expansion Pass , and Pokémon Scarlet starting at level 53 and is one of two final evolution of Cosmoem , the other being Lunala .
Solgaleo is based on a lion , possibly the alchemical lion as it is described as eating the sun and is connected with metals, possibly being the reason for Solgaleo's Steel -type. It may also be based on the Ra , an Egyptian mythological god of the sun that occasionally took the form of a cat that protected and summoned the Sun, as well as various other mythological lion-like sun-gods or mythological creatures associated with fire and the sun (similar to the design and concept of Entei ). It may also be based on the constellation Leo , which depicts a lion and is the fifth sign of the western zodiac .
Its bright-red Shiny form might be based on red giant stars.
Solgaleo and its Japanese name, Sorugareo, come from sol (Latin for "sun"), Galileo (an astronomer who found evidence the Earth orbited around the Sun) and leo (Latin for "lion").
The verbal cry in Pokémon Sun , "La-liona", comes from lā (Hawaiian for "Sun") and liona (Hawaiian for "lion").
Lunala is a large Pokémon resembling a skeletal legless bat that is mainly flat in shape. It has a short snout, dark pink eyes with white centers, and a deep purple area on its upper head that shows a constantly changing starscape.
A rigid raised hood wraps around its head in a crescent shape, resembling a crescent moon or bat ears, and drapes around its neck as well. The outside of the hood is yellow, while the inner part that curves around Lunala's head is a pattern of deep blue and white streaks. Its torso resembles a ribcage with a slightly curved spike on each shoulder and three spikes extending from the bottom toward its tail.
Its massive wings resemble a bat's wings with the skeleton exposed, except that Lunala's wings have a total of seven "finger bones": four running through each wing, one running along the edge to the outermost tip, and two pointing upwards that may act as claws that are more functional. The four "bones" through Lunala's wings are only visible in segments.
The skin of Lunala's wings is an iridescent deep purple, and a light blue light source appears to glow from behind its ribcage. A large, pale yellow crescent connects the outermost tip of each wing to the next two inner tips, and the remaining two innermost tips are adorned by yellow, four-pointed stars. The bottom of Lunala's tail is also lined by a yellow crescent, with a ridge running up the middle of the tail towards the ribcage.
When Lunala enters its Full Moon phase, its third eye—a light red symbol of an eye—appears on its forehead and the starscape turns to streaks of light. The celestial membrane of its wings glows a bright, light blue. It spreads its wings wide so that the yellow parts on each wing are arranged in a circle, with the outermost point of the four-pointed stars disappearing in the transformation.
Lunala has a calm and ghostly, mysterious demeanor, contrasting its counterpart Solgaleo's bold and fiery personality. If needed, it opens Ultra Wormholes to travel through Ultra Space, through the celestial dimensions. Like Solgaleo, it opposes Necrozma, and resists becoming absorbed and fused with it, willingly fighting it off, and flying away with its long and powerful wings. It will fire beams of moonlight to battle its opponents. It appears to be friendly toward Solgaleo (different than some main series legendaries, which are known to display enmity toward each other).
Known as the "beast that calls the moon", Lunala has long been honored as an emissary of the moon (月の化身 tsuki no kishi , lit. "incarnation of the moon"). This Pokémon constantly absorbs light to convert into energy. When it spreads its wings to absorb light and glitters, it resembles a beautiful night sky. Lunala can create Ultra Wormholes to travel to and from Ultra Space. Lunala and its counterpart, Solgaleo, can create Cosmog. It can also influence a Rockruff 's evolution into Lycanroc 's Midnight form with lunar energy.
Lunala evolves from Cosmoem in Pokémon Moon , Pokémon Ultra Moon , Pokémon Shield Expansion Pass , and Pokémon Violet starting at level 53 and is one of two final evolution of Cosmoem , the other being Solgaleo .
Lunala is based off a bat with a crescent moon motif, as well as a symbolism of bats with their cultural association to the night. It might also be based on Camazotz , a bat-like god of the Moon. Its Ghost -type and bat-like appearance may also be based on the ghost bat . Its Shiny coloration is based on the blood-red hue of a lunar eclipse .
Lunala comes from lunar (Latin for "Moon") and ala (Latin for "wing"). It could also come from luna (Moon) and lunula (something crescent shaped).
Its verbal cry in Pokémon Moon , "Mahina-pea", comes from mahina (Hawaiian for "Moon") and ' ōpe'ape'a (Hawaiian for "bat").
Necrozma, as Dusk Mane Necrozma and Dawn Wings Necrozma, is the mascot of Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon respectively, and it is the main antagonist of the game, also the creator of the Z-Crystals and the power of the Totem Pokémon . It is also a member of the Light Trio alongside Solgaleo and Lunala .
Known as "the Blinding One" ( かがやきさま , kagayaki-sama, lit. Radiant One ? ) , Necrozma is a Pokémon whose body appears to be constructed out of black crystalline material; its disproportionately large arms have three claws jutting out of them, as well as a single large whitish crystal protruding backward from each arm. Its small legs resemble a bird's and have three toes each. However, it does not seem to use them as it can naturally levitate through unknown methods.
A single wing grows out of each of its shoulders, which resembles a hook. The large protrusion attached to its head is its tail, which is white in the back with a dark gray symbol resembling a star in the center.
This part of the tail absorbs light that it converts to lasers, and glows when it does. The sides of its head and the top of its tail are covered in spikes, and its face possesses a collection of multicolored shapes.
Dusk Mane Necrozma controls both the body and mind of the Legendary Pokémon Solgaleo, absorbing the light energy that pours out of it.
After attaining this form, Necrozma gains black armor covering its face, legs, and tail, as well as having its hands melded to the sides of its body.
Dusk Mane Necrozma can propel itself forward by shooting black light from both sides of its chest, giving it a powerful means of propulsion.
By taking Solgaleo into itself, Necrozma's Attack rises beyond its previous level. It slices opponents with the powered-up claws on its four legs. The power greatly exceeds that of Solgaleo. Players can expect it to be a great aid in battles using physical moves, including Sunsteel Strike . It can hold the Solganium Z , which converts Sunsteel Strike to the Z-Move, Searing Sunraze Smash .
Dawn Wings Necrozma controls both the body and mind of the Legendary Pokémon Lunala, taking Lunala's light energy into itself by force.
This Necrozma shoots energy that glows darkly from the black portions of its wings. It accelerates by the shooting black light from its back, getting right up close to enemies in a furious rush. The power far exceeds that of Lunala.
By taking Lunala into itself, Necrozma's Special Attack stat gets even higher. It can hold the Lunalium Z , which converts Moongeist Beam to Menacing Moonraze Maelstrom .
Ultra Necrozma is a draconic Pokémon with four wings, mainly made out of light energy (or plasma). It rearranges parts of normal Necrozma into a sort of armor, that glows golden with light. Its head shape resembles the star that was on Necrozma’s "tail". It’s head is made out of what was Necrozma’s body, with two small wings made out of light coming off of where the eyes are, which are diamond shaped with four different segments, and different colors on each part, and each eye has different colors.
Necrozma's true powers lies in its Ultra Burst form. This occurs when it absorbs either Solgaleo's or Lunala's light, and it harnesses it as its own, it becomes a light dragon and Psychic/Dragon Type. This Ultra Burst form is actually Necrozma's true form. It can change into this form when holding the Ultranecrozium Z and can use the exclusive Z-Move Light That Burns the Sky .
Necrozma was discovered dwelling deep underground, where it had been asleep for ages. Due to the peculiar nature of its body, the power it wields, and the rumors that it came from another world in the distant past, it is speculated that it may be related to the Ultra Beasts , if it is not actually one itself; however, the International Police have no records of it ever emerging from an Ultra Wormhole so its classification is still uncertain.
Despite being pitch-black, it constantly refracts light like a prism.
This Pokémon is extremely hostile, rather malevolently desperate to steal light to empower itself, and will attack relentlessly to get Solgaleo or Lunala due to the powerful light they produce.
After absorbing Solgaleo, Necrozma will use its claws to mercilessly rend its prey to shreds. It even absorbs the life force of Solgaleo to further fuel its rampaging tendencies.
After absorbing Lunala, Necrozma uses its large claws to nab foes and rip them apart. It even forces its host to siphon its own energy for sustenance. Dawn Wings Necrozma also becomes vicious, It even using its lasers to decimate the world in a mighty blaze.
After its defeat at the Ultra Megalopolis, Necrozma becomes less aggresive and more exhuasted after releasing Nebby and losing its light once agian. It will challange the player once if they choose to share their light with the Prism Pokemon. In this battle Necrozma can be caught, but it has a higher catch rate.
Necrozma has the ability to absorb light and refract it as its signature moves: Prismatic Laser and Photon Geyser . It can also drain the light from a star, such as the sun, and leave that world in pitch-blackness. This is reversible if Necrozma is defeated.
In the anime, Necrozma can absorb Ultra Aura from the Ultra Wormhole. It can split its body apart when fusing with Solgaleo or Lunala.
Necrozma does not evolve .
Reminiscent of the Ultra Beasts, this life-form, apparently asleep underground, is thought to have come from another world in ancient times.
Light is apparently the source of its energy. It has an extraordinarily vicious disposition and is constantly firing off laser beams.
It looks somehow pained as it rages around in search of light, which serves as its energy. It's apparently from another world.
Light is the source of its energy. If it isn't devouring light, impurities build up in it and on it, and Necrozma darkens and stops moving.
It survives by absorbing light. After a long time spent slumbering underground, impurities accumulated within it, causing its body to darken.
It needs light to survive, and it goes on a rampage seeking it out. Its laser beams will cut anything to pieces.
This is its form while it is devouring the light of Solgaleo. It pounces on foes and then slashes them with the claws on its four limbs and back.
This is Necrozma's form while it's absorbing the power of Solgaleo, making it extremely ferocious and impossible to control.
When it dominates Solgaleo, it takes on this form. It's a vicious Pokémon, mangling prey with its many claws—including those on its back.
Necrozma has attached itself to Solgaleo. It siphons away its host's limitless energy, exploiting that energy to fuel a rampage.
Lunala no longer has a will of its own. Now under the control of Necrozma, it continuously expels all of its energy.
This is its form while it's devouring the light of Lunala. It grasps foes in its giant claws and rips them apart with brute force.
Necrozma has subjugated Lunala entirely, forcing the unfortunate Pokémon to emit its light energy for Necrozma to consume.
When Necrozma latches on to Lunala, it becomes vicious, seeing enemies everywhere it looks. It will burn the world with lasers.
This is its form when it has absorbed overwhelming light energy. It fires laser beams from all over its body.
The light pouring out from all over its body affects living things and nature, impacting them in various ways.
Necrozma first appeared in Tough Guy Trials! as Ultra Necrozma in a flashback and makes its official physical appearance in Filling the Light with Darkness! as the antagonist of Ultra Adventures .
Necrozma is based on prisms and their ability to absorb and reflect light. Its dark color and especially its ability and desperation to absorb light is based on the concept of a black hole .
Necrozma's Dusk Mane Form and Dawn Wings Form are based on solar and lunar eclipses respectively, with Necrozma "covering" Solgaleo (the Sun) or Lunala (the Moon).
Ultra Necrozma may be based on giant stars , supernovae , and wyverns , and fallen angels .
It is very possible that the general concept of Necrozma, with its malevolent intentions and relation to death and light, is based on a fallen angel (a demon), especially Lucifer . Lucifer was known as the " brightest angel" who rejected God and fell, losing all of the bright light he possesed as an angel, and becoming evil. This relates to Necrozma's title being "The Radiant/Blinding One". Necrozma's Ultra form appearing as an ethereal being of light with four wings, its violence and desperation to consume light at the expense of others, especially by corrupting and possessing benevolent beings of light (those being Solgaleo and Lunala) also relate very much to Lucifer, who had corrupted other angles who followed him, falling for his false light and becoming drawn to him, thus becoming fallen angels once possesed by him. Lucifer's goals of luring, corrupting, and possessing humans as well by using his false light are shown when Necrozma enters its Ultra Form, appearing as an ethereal, angelic dragon of light. A Necrozma's light, however, known as a light that "burns the sky", is malevolent and causes death and destruction, relating to Lucifer's false light, and death that occurs on Earth as a result of his corruption. Necrozma's clearly draconic design also relates to Lucifer taking on the form of a serpent / dragon . Lucifer was also known as "falling to Earth like a bolt of lightning" relates to Necrozma's lost plasma/light.
Necrozma and its Japanese name, Nekurozuma, come from necro (death), "necromancy", negro (Spanish for "black"), 黒 ( kuro , black), "prism", "plasma" (the state of matter stars are made of), and "Project Ozma" (an experiment conducted to send a message to and search for alien life).
Zeraora is a bipedal feline, tiger-like Pokémon. It has mostly yellow fur with black lightning bolt designs, which cover its head, arms and part of it legs. It also has black fur on its face. It has blue bolts for whiskers and a blue spike on the center of its forehead. The blue spike on its forehead becomes like an eletrified central horn when it attacks with lightning. Zeraora doesn't have a tail but it has long, tail-like fur between its shoulders on its back that takes the shape of a lightning bolt. Its paw pads are blue and its feet are black with three claws.
Alolan elders claim that Zeraora is distrustful of humans because of how it was treated by a group of island newcomers; the visitors in fact came to Alola as poachers and betrayed Zeraora's trust, leading it to shun humans from then onwards.
Zeraora can create a powerful magnetic field by emitting strong electric currents from the pads on its hands and feet. It can use this magnetic field to levitate and move through the air at high speed. Its max speed is said to be about the same as that of a lightning strike.
Unlike other Electric -type Pokémon, it doesn't have an organ within its body that can produce electricity. However, it is able to gather and store electricity from outside sources, then reuses it as its own electric energy. When it uses massive amounts of electricity, its fur stands on end all over its body. The blue spike on the center of its forehead becomes like an electrified horn when it attacks its foes with lightning.
Zeraora does not evolve , but can Mega Evolve into Mega Zeraora using its Zeraorite .
It electrifies its claws and tears its opponents apart with them. Even if they dodge its attack, they'll be electrocuted by the flying sparks.
It approaches its enemies at the speed of lightning, then tears them limb from limb with its sharp claws.
It runs as fast as lightning strikes, shredding its opponents with its high-voltage claws.
Electricity sparks from the pads on its limbs. Wherever Zeraora runs, lightning flashes and thunder echoes.
Electricity sparks from the pads on its limbs. Wherever Zeraora runs, lightning flashes and thunder echoes. Mega Zeraora : It stores up 10 lightning strikes' worth of electricity. When it stops limiting itself, it's in the strongest class of electric Pokémon.
Zeraora first appeared in " The Power of Us ", where it served a major role in the film.
Another Zeraora also appear in " Battling the Beast Within! ", where it is under the ownership of Dia .
There was also a Zeraora in the opening theme for Pokémon Master Journeys: The Series .
Like Raikou and Manectric , Zeraora is based on a tiger , and a Raijū , a mythical animal in Japanese legends that is an embodiment of lightning, often represented as a cat or tiger.
Its shiny form is based on white tigers and possibly the White Tiger of the West , a creature in East Asian mythology that represents the element of metal , as metal conducts electricity.
Considering that Alola is based on Hawaii, it may be based on Kanehekili , the Hawaiian god of thunder, though it is not related to the Tapus.
Zeraora is a combination of the words "zap" and "tora", (Japanese for "tiger"), as well as the Japanese kiai shouts "ora".
Grookey is a small monkey-like Pokémon with an orange muzzle, a yellow face "mask" around its eyes, and light green fur. It also has pointed brown ears and orange hands and feet. It has a hairdo that resembles two leaves, which holds its stick. Its tail is curved, short, and brown, and its eyes are black.
Grookey are full of curiosity and also quite mischievous. They are considered to be a mood maker as their demeanor can make just about anyone happy. Like Braixen , they are also very attached to the branches on the top of their heads. One usually sleeps on the arms of its Trainer or family members. After Grookey are born, they grab a stick from a nearby tree and carry it with them for the rest of their lives. These sticks become infused with Grookey's energy by being around them.
In the wild, Grookey live in troops with others of their kind. Their green fur contains chlorophyll and synthesizes sunlight into energy. Grookey troops can be heard from afar drumming in time on hard Berries. Trainers that do not take life seriously and enjoy dancing to their own rhythm will appreciate Grookey as their first Pokémon.
Grookey can revitalize plants by touching them with the stick in its fur. It is also good at climbing trees.
Alternatively, the stick it wears can be used as a weapon to hit foes with.
Grookey evolves into Thwackey starting at level 16 and then evolves into Rillaboom starting at level 35.
When it uses its special stick to strike up a beat, the sound waves produced carry revitalizing energy to the plants and flowers in the area.
It attacks with rapid beats of its stick. As it strikes with amazing speed, it gets more and more pumped.
Grookey first appeared in When a House is Not a Home! , to which Goh caught.
Grookey is possibly based on a squirrel monkey , more specifically an Ecuadorian squirrel monkey . Its use of sticks may reference how certain primates use items such as rocks and twigs as tools for various tasks.
Grookey comes from 'grass', 'grow', 'monkey' and 'ook' (the onomatopoeia of a monkey).
Sarunori comes from 猿 saru (monkey) and ノリ nori (rhythm).
Scorbunny looks like a small white rabbit with reddish-orange patches at the tips of its ears and feet and light yellow rectangles both on its face right between the eyes and the soles of its feet. It has short stubby arms with small 3-fingered hands. Its legs are long with small fluffy feet with 3 toes each. Around its neck is a small reddish-orange collar-like ruff. Its head is larger than its body and features tufts of fur on its cheeks. In the back is a small poof-like tail.
Scorbunny is always bursting with energy. It uses its agility and natural kicking skills to confuse opponents. According to the anime, a Scorbunny's foot is said to bring good luck, a reference to how a rabbit's foot is often used as a good luck charm. They take time to heat up, however, as the contents of Scorbunny's flame sacs are viscous and need to soften before use. For this reason, Scorbunny need to warm up before battles by running laps. This increases their heart rate and body temperatures, helping them reach their full potentials. These flame sacs are sometimes called their "second hearts" due to their importance. In combat, Scorbunny run circles around their opponents to bewilder them before delivering burning kicks.
Trainers that can keep up with these fast-paced Pokémon will find themselves rewarded with their impressive speed and strength.
Scorbunny's feet give off friction whenever it runs, leaving flames wherever it sprints. It can also ignite its feet to produce a powerful kick and scorch opponents. Its second heart is actually an internal flame sac that produces intense heat energy. Scorbunny can increase its body temperature by moving around quickly, then releasing all of its energy in the form of heat.
Scorbunny evolves into Raboot starting at level 16 and then evolves into Cinderace starting at level 35.
A warm-up of running around gets fire energy coursing through this Pokémon's body. Once that happens, it's ready to fight at full power.
It has special pads on the backs of its feet, and one on its nose. Once it's raring to fight, these pads radiate tremendous heat.
Scorbunny as teased as one of the main characters in Pokémon Journeys: The Series , as Goh 's partner. It debuted in Settling the Scorbunny! . Before meeting Goh and Ash, Scorbunny started out as a common thief who stole people's foods to feed its fellow thieves, the three packs of Nickit . Scorbunny then officially joined Goh in Mind-Boggling Dynamax! , where it became his first Pokémon. It since evolved into Raboot and Cinderace .
Scorbunny is possibly based on a White Rabbit . The way its feet catch fire to things may reference how, if something is fast enough, it can catch fire. It also shares similarities with soccer players, fitting its soccer motif other than its signature flaming kicks, band-aid -like on the top of its nose, which is the Galar region's real-life country bases and its main sport, as well as the band-aid being a symbol of Japanese-designed young, energetic and rambunctious young male characters.
Due to visibly having a soccer motif, this motif foreshadows its evolved forms being attributed with it as well.
Scorbunny comes from scorch (to burn) and bunny . It may also derive from score (as a reference to soccer).
Its Japanese name, Hibanī , comes from hibana (spark) and bunny .
Sobble resembles a light blue lizard with a yellow fin on its head. Its belly and face are lighter blue than the rest of its body, with dark blue tearlike circle markings under its large, oval-shaped blue eyes. It has a long, curled tail with a darker blue tip. Its legs are skinny with small feet, all of which have no visible toes.
Sobble is timid in nature. It will begin crying or turn invisible whenever it is scared, hurt, or threatened. Trainers that do not mind a challenge will be able to handle raising these timid yet clever Pokémon.
Whenever a Sobble comes in contact with water, it will blend in with its surroundings. Its sweat also allows it to turn invisible as well. Their tears have the effect of 100 onions, so whenever Sobble cries, it makes others cry as well.
Sobble evolves into Drizzile starting at level 16 and then evolves into Inteleon starting at level 35.
When scared, this Pokémon cries. Its tears pack the chemical punch of 100 onions, and attackers won't be able to resist weeping.
When it gets wet, its skin changes color, and this Pokémon becomes invisible as if it were camouflaged.
Goh's Sobble.
Sobble debuted in the role of a small cameo at the end of " Toughing It Out! ". It then had a major role in " Sobbing Sobble! ", where it became Goh's Pokémon.
Sobble is based on a chameleon . It also resembles a basilisk lizard which are able to run across water, possibly being the inspiration for its typing.
Sobble comes from the words 'sob' (cry) and 'bubble'.
Messon may be a combination of mesomeso (Japanese onomatopoeia for sobbing) and chameleon.
Corviknight resembles a large, dark blue, armored raven or crow. The "mask" on its face in its previous forms now resembles a helmet, with peaks on the top and extending over its beak. The lower half of its beak is dark gray. The white markings beneath its eyes are now black, but its eyes remain small and red. Its neck is covered in dark blue armor at the back but has thick feathers in front, while its belly and covert feathers are armored. Its upper legs and four-toed talons are also armored, while its lower legs are dark gray.
In its Gigantamax form, its main difference from its previous form is that it is bigger. However, under its wings are red markings. Corviknight is now accompanied by what appears to be 4 red bird-like objects that help it attack. Like all Gigantamax Pokémon, Corviknight also has red clouds above its head.
Often being seen fearlessly soaring through the air, Corviknight is regarded as the strongest Pokémon living in the skies of the Galar region. With just a sharp glare and cry from this fearsome Pokémon, any Pokémon which are foolish enough to challenge them are sent cowering in tremendous fear.
Corviknight are also intelligent creatures, capable of using tools and solving problems through intuition. These taciturn Pokémon are always keenly observing their surroundings. Corviknight in fact pay attention to the body language of passerby in order to determine whether they intend to cause trouble before they even pick a fight. In some regions such as Galar, they are employed as taxi Pokémon because of their directional intuition and their stamina. Because of their reputation, Corviknight are commonly used as emblems to represent intellect and power. They also have less of a temper and are thus preferred over Braviary for the Flying Taxi service in Galar.
In Paldea , Corviknight are instead substituted by Squawkabilly as Flying Taxis, as Corviknight are targeted by its natural predator: Tinkaton who likes to hit them out of the sky with rocks launched from their hammers for fun, which could endanger the driver and passenger(s).
Corviknight possesses superb flying skills and high intelligence, which can be helpful for transportation purposes. Corviknight is the only Pokémon that can learn the ability Mirror Armor .
Corviknight evolves from Corvisquire starting at level 38 and is the final evolution of Rookidee . Corviknight can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Corviknight .
Amethio's Corviknight.
A Corviknight species debuted in Legend? Go! Friends? Go! .
Corviknight's first major role is on the web-series Pokémon: Twilight Wings , as one of the two titular recurring characters alongside its trainer, a Taxi Driver.
Corviknight is based on a raven or crow and a knight , most specifically a Black Knight . Its feathers are similar to armor with its head resembling a helmet. It could also be based on the " black bird " sprite that appears in the previous games when the Fly HM is used. Regarding their place in Galar, corvids were commonly associated with knights and warfare in several myths or legends in the British Isles, as well as the Ravens of the Tower of London , a group of six ravens who are believed to protect the Crown and the Tower, which they reside.
Corviknight comes from corvid and knight .
Its Japanese name, Armorga, comes from a (raven), armor and gaagaa (Japanese onomatopoeia for a crow squawking).
Dragapult ( ドラパルト , Dorapult ? ) ( DRAG -uh-pult [1] ) is a Dragon / Ghost - type Pseudo-Legendary Pokémon introduced in Generation VIII .
Dragapult resembles a draconic Pokémon with a large triangular head. It has a long light blue tail that becomes transparent at the end of the tail. Dragapult also has four hollow horns on its triangular head where it launches Dreepy from the horns. It also has two small arms and feet each with sharp claws, with the hand claws colored in bright pink. Its body is black and has a yellow underbelly with red arrow-shaped markings.
Dragapult cares for groups of Dreepy. The Dreepy live with Dragapult but they are used as missiles in battle . Dragapult are very protective of their Dreepy, although they tend to be less doting and more in favor of "tough love." Dragapult expect their Dreepy to practice their abilities on their own time, and may threaten to abandon them if they fail to show results. However, most Dragapult would never actually leave behind a helpless Dreepy, and such tactics seem to only serve to scare the Dreepy into working hard. When their Dreepy finally evolve, Dragapult seem to show signs of great pride in their adoptees--though it is unlikely they will express this directly to them.
The faster a Dragapult is, the more respected it is amongst its fellow Dreepy, who desire to be shot by it in supersonic speed.
Dragapult are masters when it comes to both stealth and speed. Their ethereal bodies make no sound as they soar through the sky, while their unique head shape produces lift and helps them achieve high speeds.
When concentrating themselves and clearing their minds enough, Dragapult can make themselves and even the Dreepy inside their horns become invisible.
Dragapult evolves from Drakloak starting at level 60 and is the final evolution of Dreepy .
When it isn't battling, it keeps Dreepy in the holes on its horns. Once a fight starts, it launches the Dreepy like supersonic missiles.
Apparently the Dreepy inside Dragapult's horns eagerly look forward to being launched out at Mach speeds.
Dragapult can make its whole body transparent by clearing its mind and focusing. Even the Dreepy in Dragapult’s horns become invisible.
The fastest Dragapult of the group is always surrounded by Dreepy that want to fly at sonic speed.
Leon's Dragapult.
A Dragapult made its debut during the Darkest Day arc under the ownership of Leon .
It may be based on a European dragon and a Diplocaulus (an extinct genus of amphibians) which is referenced in its ghostly tail design which not only plays off of its Ghost type, but also references how a full tail fossil has never been found of the Diplocaulus. Its body shape also resembles that of a crocodile . It may also be based on different types of military airplanes or crossbows. Its head shape design and the way it launches Dreepy is probably based on a stealth bomber, most likely the Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit , possibly referencing its Ghost type again. Its habit of carrying Dreepy on its head may reference the parental behavior of amphibians, who often let their offspring live on their back.
Dragapult and Dorapult come from the words "dragon" and "catapult".
When it is holding a Rusted Sword in battle it turns into its Crowned Sword form, which is a Fairy / Steel type.
Zacian's 'Hero of many battles' form resembles a quadrupedal, yellow-eyed, azure and white wolf with a coral pink nose and lower jaw, small coral pink wing blade-like fur, long matching colored braid-like fur and a coral pink tail in a triangle shape. Zacian has multiple scars and scratches all over its svelte body and its left ear is cut half clean off, likely a result of injuries it suffered from battles. Its azure fur also looks somewhat mussed in places.
In its Crowned Sword form, Zacian wears a gold armor with wing-like plates on its front legs, smaller plates on its hind legs, and a crown-like helmet that covers up the broken ear, the coral pink fur bangs become thicker and more slender, and the azure fur is cleaner. In this form, Zacian carries a golden sword with azure and coral pink colored gems on its mouth .
Shiny Zacian is cyan, as its name suggests.
It seems to share a rivalry to who looks like its counterpart Zamazenta . Mainly Zacian lives in forests and woods. Zacian has been known to trick people who lurk too far into where it calls its home.
Long ago, the Galar region was brought to the brink of destruction by a terrible event known as the Darkest Day. It was through the courage of brave hero wielding a sword and a shield that Galar was saved from calamity. In some parts of the region, however, elders remember a slightly different version of the legend. According to them, the hero of Galar was actually two heroes, and they were Pokémon rather than people. Some say that Zacian was Zamazenta's older sister, while others saw them instead as rivals. Regardless, according to the old version of the myth, the two heroes worked together alongside an ancient king of Galar to save the region before descending into the Slumbering Weald east of Postwick to slumber, their weapons left to rust. Today, though the heroes have largely been misremembered, Galarians still believe that something peculiar remains afoot in the Slumbering Weald.
Zacian does not evolve .
Zacian (Zamazenta If playing Shield) is first found in the Slumbering Weald at the beginning of the game. You and your rival Hop take it on, but the moves seemingly get lost in the fog and have no effect. You also see it in the Post-Game in Wyndon on the top of the tower after defeating Sordward.
Hero of Many Battles : Known as a legendary hero, this Pokémon absorbs metal particles, transforming them into a weapon it uses to battle. Crowned Sword : Now armed with a weapon it used in ancient times, this Pokémon needs only a single strike to fell even Gigantamax Pokémon.
Hero of Many Battles : This Pokémon has slumbered for many years. Some say it's Zamazenta's elder sister, others say the two Pokémon are rivals. Crowned Sword : Able to cut down anything with a single strike, it became known as the Fairy King's Sword, and it inspired awe in friend and foe alike.
Zacian, alongside Zamazenta, only made brief appearances in the certain recent opening scenes of Pokémon (2019) , and has debuted in some episodes they appeared in. It played a major role in the upcoming "Sword and Shield Edition" arc where it transformed into its Crowned Sword forme to help Ash and Goh with battling and defeating Eternatus, alongside Zamazenta in its Crowned Shield forme.
It is based on a wolf. Its main inspiration is a reference to Excalibur from the Arthurian legends of Celtic Mythology. Its sibling-like relation with Zamazenta and Fairy-typing might also take inspiration from the relationship between King Arthur and Morgan le Fay .
Its braid-like fur is in a similar fashion to Celtic braids. Zacian and Zamazenta are also likely based on the wolves Sköll and Hati from Norse Mythology.
Zacian may originate from "cyan", a greenish-blue color. This could refer to the blue color of Pokémon Sword or its Shiny coloration, in which it is cyan.
When it is holding a Rusted Shield in battle it turns into its Crowned Shield form, which is a Fighting / Steel type.
Zamazenta resembles a quadrupedal red fur-colored wolf with slightly leonine traits. It has a large reddish shield-like mane, and dark blue fur sticking out from the bottom of the mane, curling upward on the frontal paws and pointing up on the head as a high ponytail. Zamazenta's body has several scars and scratches and its right ear is half cut-off.
In its Crowned Shield form, its mane turns into a huge, gold shield with red highlights , as well as crown-like texture on its head that covers the half cut-off ear. Its ponytail and tail are neater now. It also has many scars and shaggy fur.
Shiny Zamazenta is mainly magenta in its fur coloration, as its name suggests.
Zamazenta, similar to Zacian, can absorb metal to assume its crowned form. Its shield can slide into a different alignment when defending or using Behemoth Bash , which is described as strong enough to crack the land and the resulting shockwaves can defeat multiple enemies simultaneously, as well as being able to go through mountains. Its shield can deflect most attacks, even Dragon Claw cant dent it.
It can Fly and project Illusions like Zoroark .
Long ago, the Galar region was brought to the brink of destruction by a terrible event known as the Darkest Day. It was through the courage of brave hero wielding a sword and a shield that Galar was saved from calamity. In some parts of the region, however, elders remember a slightly different version of the legend. According to them, the hero of Galar was actually two heroes, and they were Pokémon rather than people. Some say that Zamazenta was Zacian's younger brother, while others saw them instead as rivals. Regardless, according to the old version of the myth, the two heroes worked together alongside an ancient king of Galar to save the region before descending into the Slumbering Weald east of Postwick to slumber, their weapons left to rust. Today, though the heroes have largely been misremembered, Galarians still believe that something peculiar remains afoot in the Slumbering Weald.
Zamazenta does not evolve .
Hero of Many Battles : In times past, it worked together with a king of the people to save the Galar region. It absorbs metal that it then uses in battle. Crowned Shield : Its ability to deflect any attack led to it being known as the Fighting Master's Shield. It was feared and respected by all.
Hero of Many Battles : This Pokémon slept for aeons while in the form of a statue. It was asleep for so long, people forgot that it ever existed. Crowned Shield : Now that it's equipped with its shield, it can shrug off impressive blows, including the attacks of Dynamax Pokémon.
Zamazenta, alongside Zacian only made brief appearances in certain recent opening scene of Pokémon (2019) , and has yet to debut in some episode they will appear. It played a major role in the Darkest Day arc.
It is based on a wolf and a shield, with slight leonine traits. The shield embedded on its body may act as a reference to Pridwen from the Arthurian legends of Celtic Mythology. Its armor may draw inspiration from medieval knights. Zacian and Zamazenta are also likely based on the wolves Sköll and Hati from Norse Mythology.
The return of the legendary duo in the present day is similar to how many beloved King Arthur would be reincarnated into a savior figure.
Furthermore, the fact that the duo's weapons are described to be extremely strong offensively and defensively, creates an irresistible force paradox, popularized by a Chinese story about a man selling a spear and shield with abilities similar to the weapons wielded by the duo, only to be asked what would happened if they are used against each other.
Zamazenta may originate from "magenta", a pinkish-red color. This could refer to the red color of Pokémon Shield or its Shiny coloration, in which it is magenta.
Eternatus arrived on Galar in a meteorite 20,000 years ago. It is the source of all the Dynamax energy in Galar. 3,000 years ago prior to the events of Sword and Shield , Eternatus caused a calamity known as the Darkest Day , but was stopped by two Galarian nobles and the Pokémon Zacian and Zamazenta .
Chairman Rose , believing that Galar would suffer an energy crisis 1,000 years into the future during the events of the game, collected Wishing Stars to awaken Eternatus and use its energy to power Galar indefinitely, believing it could be controlled. Eternatus proved to be uncontrollable and was only subdued with the help of Leon , Hop , the player, Zacian and Zamazenta. In the end, Rose's plan had worked in a sense, as even after Eternatus had been contained, Galar was still re-energized and the energy crisis was averted.
Outwardly, Eternatus is difficult to compare at least with something. Although this is the largest Pokemon, its entire body seems to consist of blue crystals, resembling, so to speak, the skeleton of a dragon with small gaps in the "bones" in which pink energy is visible. The head is shaped like a reptilian skull, with white eyes that look more like ovals. The mouth is at the bottom. The teeth are shaped like diamond-shaped crystals. The whole head is protected from above by a red translucent shield, which has 3 corners at the nose and 5 on the other side. Branches extend from the shield, attached to the "shield" with pyramid-shaped crystals, 2 on each branch, and then branch out as smooth, tapering towards the ends, processes with small gaps and pink energy, and the second part of the processes is connected to the corners at the end of the shield. There is also a small crystal near the nose in the middle of the shield. The rest of the body has a serpentine shape, like Chinese dragons, with "spikes" from below and above along the entire perimeter of the body. There are only 4 paws - 2 front and 2 back, however, Eternatus, in principle, does not need them, well, except for the front paws. On each (front) paw there are 3 fingers or claws, it's hard to say. A long crystal extends from the shoulders, which passes into crystals, resembling crystals on a shield. Both ends terminate in crystals resembling offshoots from the same shield. The longest crystal has 3 sharp crystals. All this forms the wings of Eternatus. The so-called "ribs" are built in the form of some kind of gun or laser of unknown origin. These "ribs" are lighter on the inside than on the outside. In the "ribs" themselves there is the "Eternatus Core". The hind legs resemble the bones of the hind legs (self-evident). The beginning resembles a hip bone, and the paws themselves, let's say, look very strange. The knee joint has 2 gaps with energy in them. Claws or fingers are simply impossible to describe. The tail looks like a body, but ends in 2 crystals.
No less strange and incomprehensible is its Eternamax form, for which, in appearance, it can be classified as an Ultra Beast . takes on the resemblance of a long body (or arm) and what would seem to be the "head" is a large hand. It has a long "beginning" (which is like the arm mentioned before), mostly made up of energy, and the crystals are minor, which is the complete opposite of its usual form. The energy itself looks like an incomprehensible pink substance with white grains and stripes on it. The head looks like a hand with incomprehensible crystals on the "fingers" and the center of the palm. The crystals in the center are most likely the mouth of this monster. Each finger is covered with crystals, similar to those that lined the wings. On top of each finger there is a sharp spike. To the ends of the fingers, the spikes are shortened. The body itself is twisted into a spiral and along the entire perimeter, except for the tail, is "dressed" in rings. The tail itself, in its appearance, resembles the same wings of Eternatus. In the center of the spiral is the Nucleus. Along the Core on the body there are sharp long crystals resembling a "fence".
Being the source of all Dynamax energy, Eternatus is able to achieve a form known as "Eternamax", which could be considered similar to Gigantamax due to the drastic changes undergone. It is also capable of preventing opponents from performing any attacks and abilities in this state while charging up energy.
Regardless of form, Eternatus is also able to prevent other Pokémon from utilising Dynamax or Gigantamax states. The massive power it stores in itself is capable of causing Pokémon to inexplicably Dynamax at random.
Eternatus does not evolve , but can Eternamax into Eternamax Eternatus .
The core on its chest absorbs energy emanating from the lands of the Galar region. This energy is what allows Eternatus to stay active. Eternamax : As a result of Rose's meddling, Eternatus absorbed all the energy in the Galar region. It's now in a state of power overload.
It was inside a meteorite that fell 20,000 years ago. There seems to be a connection between this Pokémon and the Dynamax phenomenon. Eternamax : Infinite amounts of energy pour from this Pokémon's enlarged core, warping the surrounding space-time.
Eternatus made a brief appearance in Flash of the Titans! , where it flew through the clouds next to the plane Ash Ketchum and Goh use to travel to Galar while passing by it. Similar to Zekrom , it attracts the high-level energy signature of Ash's Pikachu .
It returned playing a major role as one of the antagonists in a Pokémon Journeys saga based on the primary Sword and Shield storyline; it was eventually caught by Goh and sealed away in a safe.
Eternatus is based on various depictions of European dragons, most likely the ones depicted in the United Kingdom (the region Galar is based on). It is most likely based on depictions of venomous dragons in folklore such as the one St. George had killed. It also resembles an ancient dinosaur skeleton. According to its etymology, it may be based on Thanatos, the god of death. Strangely, its bones resemble the armor of Necrozma , another extraterrestrial death-themed Pokémon who provided its generation's region with the energy needed for that generation's signature combat mechanic (Z-Moves in Necrozma's case, Dynamax in Eternatus's). Its multiple blank white eyes resemble those of Crocomire, a boss from the game Super Metroid. It could also be based on several personifications of evil, as it was the Pokemon that almost destroyed Galar, but was stopped by Calyrex.
Its Poison-type and the fact it came from space may refer to the acidic blood of the Xenomorphs from the Alien movie series and/or to the novel The Andromeda Strain , in which a deadly alien virus comes to Earth on a satellite.
It may also be based on the biblical Seven Headed Dragon that throws one-third of all stars down to Earth and is then banished, which leads to the end of all time. This may have inspired the Wishing Stars (the stars that fall down to Earth, with Eternamax Eternatus' "hand" resembling a giant star), the banishment (the player only being able to catch Eternatus and being unable to let it retreat), and the Darkest Day (the end of all time). Eternamax Eternatus is also depicted with several heads rather than the single head it has in its normal form, albeit it only sports five heads rather than seven. Additionally, Eternatus may be based on a deity named "Etermalden" from some rare Abrahamic branches of religion, which is believed to be a dragon who represents the state of absence of good and evil and is powerful enough to destroy Hell and severely mutilate even Heaven and the angels. Eternatus's Eternamax form could be based on the theory that said dragon of absence also is to transform into the seven headed dragon at the end of the Hebrew Bible.
In terms of genre analysis or "meta", or "fourth wall genre awareness", Eternatus likely draws upon classical fantasy motifs of slaying primordial and chthonic forces that threaten humanity, as to the Lernaden Hydra , Yamata no Orochi , and the Dragon slain by St. George, and to RPGs, to embody the form of a more traditional endboss that threatens the world and all who live in it. Finally, its Eternamax form harkens to the European art motif of the Hand of God, used to display God's intervention and His will to depict Him without displaying a tangible form, which was considered blasphemous in the Middle Ages . In turn with Eternatus' RPG Endboss theming, this may also be a throwback to the 1990s and early 2000s JRPG era, significantly to such series and installments such as Lunar , Grandia II , Final Fantasy X , Xenosaga , and Tales of the Abyss , which came to challenge religious fatalism and eschatological/end times zealotry.
Eternatus comes from the words "eternal", "aeternatus" (immortalized in Latin), and "Thanatus" (Thanatos in Latin).
Its Japanese name, Mugendaina, comes from the words "mugendai" (infinity), "dynamic", "die" (as it's a Poison type), and "Daimax" ( Dynamax ).
It has two forms that the secondary type depends on: Single Strike Style Urshifu, whose secondary type is Dark type, and Rapid Strike Style Urshifu, whose secondary type is Water type.
Urshifu is a gray bear biped Pokémon with pastel yellow fingers, toes and mouth. It has two eyes with black pupils with fur extending from its kneecaps and running from its feet.
It wears a black and white headband with two loose strips which are flying upwards (Single Strike Style)/downwards (Rapid Strike Style). It also wears a black and white leotard.
When Gigantamaxing , they turn white completely and their leotard changes to either red or blue depending on the form. Their eyes' pupils have disappeared and have an extra slash mark on top.
Urshifu's style and personality is determined by how it trained as a Kubfu.
Single Strike Style Urshifu prefers to battle without holding back its power. If enraged, it will attack the foe with full force with straight line directed fists.
Rapid Strike Style Urshifu prefers calmly observing the opponent and their strength while evading hits. It uses flowing movements to dodge an opponent's attack before overwhelming them with rapid strikes, like Mienshao .
Gigantamax Single Strike Style Urshifu has been called "the very embodiment of rage" and "a divine emissary that banishes evil spirits with its fury".
Rapid Strike Style Urshifu maintains a stance in a calm manner while in Gigantamax form. Opponents who face it may either feel greatly agitated or experience a sense of relief, as if freed from evil spirits.
Their ability, Unseen Fist, allows them to bypass moves like Protect , allowing them to always strike their foe. Wicked Blow and Surging Strikes , their signature moves, have high crit ratios and ignore stat changes of the target.
When they Gigantamax, their G-Max moves, G-Max One Blow , and G-Max Rapid Flow , can bypass Max Guard and other protection moves.
Urshifu evolves from Kubfu after finishing the trial at either one of Tower of Two Fists: Tower of Darkness or Tower of Waters . Urshifu can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Urshifu .
Kubfu evolves into either Single Strike Style Urshifu after finishing the trial at Tower of Darkness and obtaining the Scroll of Darkness or Rapid Strike Style Urshifu after finishing the trial at Tower of Waters and obtaining the Scroll of Waters .
Since Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet , Kubfu evolves into Urshifu of the respective Style using the item forms of Scroll of Darkness or Scroll of Waters.
It cannot be found in wild areas but can be received by Master Mustard and can be evolved into your preferred version.
Single Strike Style : This form of Urshifu is a strong believer in the one-hit KO. Its strategy is to leap in close to foes and land a devastating blow with a hardened fist. Rapid Strike Style : It's believed that this Pokémon modeled its fighting style on the flow of a river---sometimes rapid, sometimes calm. Gigantamax Single Strike Style: People call it the embodiment of rage. It's said that this Pokémon's terrifying expression and shout will rid the world of malevolence. Gigantamax Rapid Strike Style : As it waits for the right moment to unleash its Gigantamax power, this Pokémon maintains a perfect one-legged stance. It won't even twitch.
Single Strike Style : Inhabiting the mountains of a distant region, this Pokémon races across sheer cliffs, training its legs and refining its moves. Rapid Strike Style : This form of Urshifu is a strong believer in defeating foes by raining many blows down on them. Its strikes are nonstop, flowing like a river. Gigantamax Single Strike Style: The energy released by this Pokémon's fists forms shock waves that can blow away Dynamax Pokémon in just one hit. Gigantamax Rapid Strike Style : All it takes is a glare from this Pokémon to take the lives of those with evil in their hearts — or so they say.
Urshifu draws upon the idea of tamed bears , specifically bears who were taken as cubs to be trained and raised in human society. Being a Fighting -type Pokémon and a "martial artist" draws upon a lot of lore of bears and the martial arts ; high ranked martial artists sometimes fight bears as a means to test their skill in extreme situations, while the term kuma taiji , or "bear conquest", is sometimes used to also refer to demonic exorcism; this may explain Single Strike Style's Dark typing. It could also be based on the Short-Faced Bear , an extinct bear species known for its immense size and long limbs.
Within astronomy and astrology, the Big Dipper in the west is sometimes referred to as Ursa Major , as imagery sees the constellation as a great bear, while in the east, the Big Dipper was traditionally known as the celestial palace of the heavens, with its handle end star, Alkaid , known as Hagunsei , or the Military Breaking Star, or The Sword, as it was believed the armies of heaven and the gods of death quartered there, and was ominous for warriors to face the northwestern direction because of this. Into the Meiji era , when western and eastern thought met in 19th Century Japan, the Big Dipper saw another interpretation by its English adopted wordplay, being a "dark corner" akin to a bear's den.
Each of Urshifu's style forms represents yin and yang , and into martial arts, the philosophy's application into the division of "hard styles" and "soft styles", as represented with Single Strike and Rapid Strike. Hard styles are said to focus on external focuses, that of raw strength and power, explosive speed, head on intercepting countering blows, and direct confrontation, while Soft styles are said to focus on internal focuses, including the control of the natural flow of the body with the mind, accuracy, mental acuity, concepts like using a foe's own movement and energy against them, and drawing out weaknesses; in short, as Rapid Strike Style Urshifu represents, the way of martial artist philosophy: "be like water". To Japanese martial arts philosophy , the concepts of satsujinken ("sword/fist that kills") and katsujinken ("sword/fist that gives life") also tie into these philosophies as well, respectively; satsujinken focuses on controlling a bout's tension to escalate to where a single blow is all that is needed for victory, while katsujinken focuses on cancelling out tension by meshing with a foe's energy and using it against them upon finding a weak point to disarm them. This would also presumably perhaps explain their dual typing; Dark coming from the intent to "kill" or instantaneously annihilate all opposition, Water also capable of "giving life" as much as it is able to overwhelm and overpower with many forms and rhythms.
Their Gigantamax forms may be based on Ungyou and Agyou , two Japanese deities/Nio who stand watch over temples. One always has its mouth open, the other closed. They may also be based on the trope Red Oni and Blue Oni where the red one is more aggressive, whilst the blue one is more calm. Gigantamax Urshifu's Single Strike style may be based on Agyou, who is often depicted with its mouth open to represent aggression, while Gigantamax Urshifu's Rapid Strike style may be based on Ungyou, who is often depicted with its mouth closed to represent concealed power.
Urshifu is a combination of 'ursa', Latin for 'bear', and 'shifu' (Onyomi Japanese/Chinese adapted Japanese term for "master"), or Kung Fu .
Ūraosu is a portmanteau of wushu (Japanese has no native "wu" sound so "ū" is typically used), 老師 / 老师 (lǎoshī, Chinese for teacher), "ursa", "oorah", and 押忍 ( osu , interjection used in Japanese martial arts).
Calyrex has two fusion forms: Ice Rider ( はくばじょう , Haku Bajō ? , lit. White Horseback ) (when fused with Glastrier ) and Shadow Rider ( こくばじょう , Koku Bajō ? , lit. Black Horseback ) (when fused with Spectrier ), replacing the grass -type for Ice or Ghost -types respectively.
Calyrex is a bipedal, mammalian Pokémon that resembles a hare. Its main body is light gray with a round torso, and it has long white legs with no visible digits. Its arms are also short with white tips and no visible digits. Calyrex also has four long ears with white tips that hold up its large brain (which is green with a light purple top), and around its neck are smaller features similar to its brain, with the smallest one in the front and the largest one in the back. Its long face has a white underside, half-closed purple eyes, and a black triangular nose. It also has four purple insect-like wings, which slightly gives off the impression of a royal cape.
As an Ice Rider or a Shadow Rider, Calyrex's crown is slightly lighter, and its cape becomes longer and gains a cream color layer on top.
Calyrex used to rule all of Galar in ancient times. It is very intelligent and its brain is very large. It is said to be merciless in battle, but will still heal its foes' wounds.
Calyrex has the power to envision the events of all three phases of time, namely past, present and future, and even saved a forest using this ability from a meteor. It can also communicate with humans by overtaking someone else's body, like Peony 's, but can use telepathy when at full power. It is also rather graceful despite its frail appearance.
In the past, Calyrex's right hand could cause areas to be flowing with plants, and its left could speed up ripening. It could also grow Iceroot / Shaderoot Carrots by dancing near a field their seeds were planted. It was also able to create radiant flowers, which can be used to create the Reins of Unity it uses to tame its steed.
Calyrex can also give blessings and heal, as well as move entire forests (and its residents). While mounted, it can give life to wastelands by encouraging plant growth. It is at full power if it is in its alternate forms, and gets weaker after being forgotten by people and losing its steed.
Calyrex does not evolve .
[ Notes 1 ]
Calyrex appears to be based on an arctic hare with a crown. It also seems to be based on Celtic deities such as Cernunnos, which just like Calyrex, was worshipped as a god of vegetation and fertility. Its large, upward-pointing ears also slightly resemble horns, which may make the fictional jackalope a possible inspiration.
The way it rides its mounts is a reference to cavalry, soldiers who fight on horseback. It may also draw inspiration from the Wild Hunt. Given As One 's Japanese name, its forms may be inspired by the Japanese phrase 人馬一体 (rider and horse as one body). Tying into its possible taxidermy/jackalope inspirations, its mount forms may also be based on taxidermy creatures who are often considered fictional "fusions" of various animals. Most of these taxidermy creations involve aspects of rabbits or hares, an animal Calyrex is based on. With Spectrier and Glastrier possibly being based on the knight pieces in chess (which resemble horses), it's possible Calyrex could represent a king or queen piece.
Its Japanese name, Budrex, comes from "bud" and "rex". Its Thai name, บัดเดร็กซ์, is a transliteration of this name.
Its English name, Calyrex, comes from "calyx" and "rex", which mean "bud" and "king" in Latin, respectively. It may also be a reference to a breed of domestic rabbit called the rex , though Calyrex more resembles a hare than a rabbit appearance-wise.
Sprigatito is a small feline-like Pokémon that resembles a kitten. It has light-pink eyes and light-green fur, as well as a small triangular nose and a large bushy tail. Its ears are of a darker green compared to the rest of its fur, it also has a leaf-like fur on its chest and mask-like pattern on its face. It has pink paw pads at the bottom of its paws. It has black claws that usually remain retracted unless in combat.
Sprigatito is described to be capricious and always seeking attention. One will sulk if its desired attention is given to other Pokémon. In order to prevent its face from drying out, Sprigatito will wash itself on a regular basis.
A Sprigatito is able to rub its fore paws together to produce an aroma that can calm an opponent down. Sprigatito's fur has similar properties to those of a plant, which allows sunlight to be absorbed. Sprigatito can also photosynthesize by creating moisture in its fur.
Sprigatito evolves into Floragato starting at level 16 and then evolves into Meowscarada starting at level 36.
[ Notes 1 ]
Liko's Sprigatito.
A Sprigatito made its debut in a short based on Team Rocket 's expedition in Paldea.
Sprigatito seems to be based on a long-haired kitten. Its Grass typing is a reference to wildcats living in flora-filled environments such as forests and jungles. Its facial marking may take inspiration from Himalayan cats or ragdoll cats and a magician's mask. It may also be inspired by the Iberian lynx . Its habit of sunbathing to photosynthesize may be based on feline nature to seek out sources of warmth, typically before sleeping.
Its Japanese name, ニャオハ (Nyahoja), might be a portmanteau of ニャ (nya), Japanese onomatopoeia for a cat's cry, and hoja (j is pronounced similarly to h: [ˈo.xä]), Spanish for leaf. It may also contain 小 (o), the Japanese word for small and 葉 (ha), the Japanese word for leaf.
Its English name, Sprigatito, might be a portmanteau of "sprig" (a small stem of a plant), "spring" (a season often symbolizing growth and new beginnings), and gatito (Spanish word for "kitten").
It is the First partner Pokémon for the Pokémon games, Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet .
Fuecoco is a small crocodilian Pokémon with a red pepper-shaped body and a pair of short stubby arms each with three claws. It also has two stump-like legs each with two black toe claws. Two yellow stems protrude from Fuecoco's head. Fuecoco also has two yellow patches on its belly and tail.
Fuecoco is described to be laidback and lives at its own pace. Fuecoco enjoys eating, and it will rush towards any food it sees. One Fuecoco can sing though they tend to be shy about others hearing its song.
Fuecoco is able to absorb external heat via the square scales on its stomach and back in order to produce energy. The scales are always warm and can increase to intense temperatures. The flame energy that Fuecoco produces is always leaking out. The more excitable Fuecoco becomes, the greater the amount of flames are released.
Fuecoco evolves into Crocalor starting at level 16 and then evolves into Skeledirge starting at level 36.
[ Notes 1 ]
Fuecoco largely resembles a crocodile and a dinosaur. Its shape and coloration resemble that of a chili pepper and ghost pepper , befitting of its Fire typing. It also shares traits with an apple such as its coloration, its face resembling an apple cut in half, its eyes resembling apple seeds, its tail resembling an apple slice, and the yellow stems on its head resembling an apple stem and leaf.
Its English name, Fuecoco, may originate from the Spanish words fuego (fire) and cocodrilo (crocodile). It may also incorporate cocoa , as its coloration and shape slightly resemble that of a cocoa bean pod.
It is a first partner Pokémon in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet .
Quaxly appears as a small white duck with teal feet, a round yellow beak, sapphire connected eyes, and a teal beret of feathers. It has a thin secondary layer of feathers at its chest. Its feathers contain a glossy gel that protect Quaxly from water and grime.
Quaxly is described to as the tidiest and earnest Duckling Pokémon. It is prone to overthinking and is very insistent on maintaining a good appearance, keeping itself clean at all times. It does not like having its coif dirtied.
Quaxly's legs enable it to swim even in strong currents. It can also kick foes at swift speed.
Quaxly evolves into Quaxwell starting at level 16 and then evolves into Quaquaval starting at level 36.
[ Notes 1 ]
Quaxly resembles a white duckling more specifically the crested duck breed, with its "hat" resembling a sailor's cap and the symbol on it resembling a wave of water. Its blue colored feet also draws to mind a Blue-footed booby .
Its appearance also has similarities to the popular Disney character: Donald Duck .
Its English name, Quaxly, originates from "Quack", the sound a duck makes, and "wax", referring to its waxy crest.
Armarouge is a tall humanoid Pokémon that resembles a knight. It wears a suit of armor that is primarily golden yellow with a red streak across the armor's chest area. It also has rounded pauldrons that can be moved to its hands to resemble a cannon. Its body is primarily black with dark red sections on its knees and wrists and light red sections on its hands and feet. Armarouge also dons a black helmet, which covers most of its face, with a petal-like pattern on it. Its eyes are red with yellow flame-like protrusions emitting from its pupils. It also sports two spike-like protrusions coming from the sides of its head, resembling ears. A large flame also flows from the top of its head, resembling a knight's helmet plume.
Armarouge will challenge opponents head-on, even if they appear to be stronger, and believes in fair fights between Pokémon. They are very loyal to their Trainers, although often repeatedly training themselves alone to strengthen their psychic energy.
Armarouge's armor once belonged to a distinguished warrior and is also the source of its psychic energy used for Psychic -type moves. Their sturdy armor also makes for a good defense while they attack opponents with high firepower. By shifting their pauldrons to their hands, they can make perform a cannon-like attack in which they put their hands together and shoot out fire.
Armarouge evolves from Charcadet when exposed to Auspicious Armor .
Armarouge evolved through the use of a set of armor that belonged to a distinguished warrior. This Pokémon is incredibly loyal.
This Pokémon clads itself in armor that has been fortified by psychic and fire energy, and it shoots blazing fireballs.
Armarouge's armor and flame plume may make them based on armor worn by European knights ; this is also evident by the fact that Armarouge live by a code of honor and chivalry just like a knight. This origin might also reflect the legend of the Spanish knight Wilfred the Hairy , who was known to be descended from French ancestry, as well as being depicted wielding a golden armor and shield that were both marked in red by the emperor Charles the Bald to indicate Wilfred's bravery; the red markings on Wilfred's golden armor and shield also reflects Armarouge's red and yellow color palette.
Armarouge might also be inspired by jinn , humanoid fire spirits of Arabic folklore that are often depicted tossing fire balls at other beings. Its ability to form a cannon via fusing its pauldron armor is a reference to howitzers and sci-fi media depictions of arm cannons.
Its English name, Armarouge, may come from "armadura" (the Spanish word for "armor"), "maroon" (a dark red color), and "rouge" (the French word for "red").
Ceruledge is a tall humanoid Pokémon resembling a ghostly knight. It wears dark purple armor that is segmented across its body. Its body is primarily blue with black sections at its face, feet, and thighs. It also sports greaves which are enlarged towards the top, extending outward. Ceruledge dons a dark purple segmented charcoal-based helmet, which covers most of its face, with a petal-like pattern on it. Its hands are large blades comprised of flames, which are light blue in color at the fiery ricasso/hilt but transition into a faint reddish-purple near the point. Its eyes are light purple with white flames emanating from its pupils. Two spike-like protrusions extend from the sides of its head, resembling elf-like ears, or antennas connected to a helmet. A large bluish-purple flame flows from the top and back of its head, resembling a knight's helmet plume.
Ceruledge prefer getting close to an opponent during battle and utilize their speed to strike at their opponent's blind spots. The armor that Ceruledge dons is steeped in past grudges. Being a fiercely loyal Pokémon, any hostility towards one's Trainer will result in the offender being slashed to death.
A Ceruledge wields blades of ghostly fire that transform into swords during battle. Ceruledge's blades also leave wounds that leak life energy when they have cut an opponent. As seen in the anime, a Ceruledge can also retract their blades, which will continue to emit heat.
Ceruledge evolves from Charcadet when exposed to Malicious Armor .
Amethio's Ceruledge is the only Ceruledge who has appeared in the anime thus far.
Ceruledge (Pokémon UNITE)
Ceruledge is based on a European knight . Its armor may be based on the mythical belief of a haunted suit of armour said to be possessed by ghosts, hence its Ghost -typing. Ceruledge’s overall appearance may be based on the black knight from medieval settings. Specifically, Ceruledge might be based on the historical Spanish knight known as "El Cid", known for wielding two famous swords in each hand. Its Ghost -typing might refer to the fact that El Cid, by legend, is believed to have won his most important battle after death.
Ceruledge's armor might also alternatively be based on mecha suits, which are popular in Japanese pop culture.
Ceruledge may be a portmanteau of "cerulean" (a shade of blue) and "edge".
Compared to her previous form, Tinkaton's hair is now larger to the point that it nearly reaches the ground. While she still remains predominantly pink, her arms are now white sans her thumb, which is the same pink as her body. What makes her stand out even more compared to Tinkatuff is that the hammer it uses is now outrageously larger compared to herself.
Despite their cute appearances, Tinkaton have an intelligent but also daring and even cruel disposition. They enjoy hurting and hunting Steel -type Pokémon, simply by swinging their hammer, and plunder whatever loot as they please back to their home. A Tinkaton usually leads the Tinkatink and Tinkatuff in its group to teach them skills on how to pound and shape metal.
Tinkaton is Corviknight 's natural predator as it likes to use its massive hammer to launch rocks at flying Corviknight to knock them out of the sky. Therefore, Flying Taxi operators in Paldea to use Squawkabilly instead of Corviknight to avoid dangers and endangering the customers caused by Tinkaton.
Tinkaton also has been seen to sleep on their hammers like a bed. If anyone tries to take or touch its hammer, it will react hostilely.
Tinkaton is strong and it can effortlessly swing its 220-pound hammer just to knock out any Steel -type Pokémon with its signature move Gigaton Hammer .
Tinkaton evolves from Tinkatuff starting at level 38 and is the final evolution of Tinkatink .
This intelligent Pokémon has a very daring disposition. It knocks rocks into the sky with its hammer, aiming for flying Corviknight .
The hammer tops 220 pounds, yet it gets swung around easily by Tinkaton as it steals whatever it pleases and carries its plunder back home.
Tinkaton's design of being a petite girl with a giant hammer and female-only gender ratio may reference the media depictions of cute innocent little girls with giant/gigantic weaponry, such as Amy Rose from Sonic the Hedgehog . Correlating to its Fairy type, its also based on duendes, goblins and dwarves, the latter two of which are often portrayed as blacksmiths using iron tools and weapons, relevant as Tinkaton and its pre-evolutions: Tinkatink and Tinkatuff have blacksmith in their English/Japanese names.
More specifically, Tinkaton and its evolutionary family are based on the Mouros from the Portugese, Galician and Asturian folklore, mainly the Enchanted Moura that are renowned for their beauty and powerful strength.
It could also be inspired by Gremlins due to its habits disrupting/interfering flying type Pokémon such as Corviknight much like how Gremlins are portrayed in some posters.
Tinkaton's name is derived from Tinker, an itinerant blacksmith, and ton/gigaton, reflected in its giant hammer and signature move.
Its japanese name, Dekaunuchan, combines dekai(huge, referring to its hammer), kanuchi(blacksmith), and the honorific -chan, which is feminine in nature and used in informal contexts to refer to close ones.
Koraidon is a large reptilian Pokémon, being an ancient ancestor of Cyclizar . Most of its body is scarlet in color, and mostly covered in feathers, with white accents on its cheeks, abdomen, legs, and tail. Its head features a large feathered plume and a pair of long, thin, folded wings, which appear more like antennae when not extended; its rear has a similar, much larger feathered plume. These plumes and antennae are white in color, and blue-purple at the base. It has yellow eyes with dark red pupils, four claws with a web in between the inner two, and blue features on its elbows and shoulders, as well as blue spikes running down its neck. On its chest is a large, half-torus-shaped protrusion which resembles a rubber tire, covered in scales. Its texture and black coloration is similar to the base of its tail, and it can inflate or deflate as needed. The scarlet part on it glows when a special attack is used.
Koraidon is a confident and formidable Pokémon. It is aware of its great strength and rarely feels threatened. Like any wild Pokémon, it is cautious around humans, but can also be curious and playful, and proud in its mannerisms, much like a young lion. It utters burbling and high growling noises that sound like a wildcat's cries. Its power surges under harsh sunlight due to an ancient metallic energy called "orichalc" , coursing through its body. In battle, Koraidon will shift into its Gliding Build, allowing it to crash into its targets with explosive force .
Koraidon has the ability to change its form in order to facilitate travel. Sprinting Build Koraidon tucks in its tail and runs on all fours, moving at very fast speeds using its powerful legs. This form also allows Koraidon to climb cliffs. Swimming Build Koraidon can float in the water by turning its throat into a flotation device and using the membrane between its feet to swim. Gliding Build Koraidon can fly by unravelling its twisted tendrils into wings, allowing it to glide and fly through the sky.
In its Apex Build, Koraidon is able to leap up in the air at a staggering height of 65 feet; this feat is done by a powerful leg kick from the ground. Koraidon uses the velocity and momentum from its ascent to drop down and attack unsuspecting foes with a powerful kick and body slam.
Koraidon does not evolve .
This seems to be the Winged King mentioned in an old expedition journal. It was said to have split the land with its bare fists.
This Pokémon resembles Cyclizar , but it is far burlier and more ferocious. Nothing is known about its ecology or other features.
A Koraidon made its debut in a short based on Team Rocket 's expedition to Paldea , where they tried to catch it. However, it noticed them and roared, causing them to flee before it caught up with them and sent them blasting off.
Koraidon largely resembles a European dragon , and a dinosaur such as a T-Rex (which is the inspiration for its title " Winged King "). It resembles many reptiles, such as a Komodo dragon , and various species of feathered dinosaurs. It combines these reptilian traits with a motorcycle , as its hair-like tassels resemble handlebars and the black sections of its underbelly and throat resemble bike tires.
It also shares some traits with lions , especially in its mannerisms, coloration, mane, and big-cat-like shape and size, particularly when in its "limited build".
Giving its hair-like tassels, hair crest and unfurled wings, it may have been inspired by the media depiction of Native Americans of the past, who are often portrayed as a savage and uncivilized population in pre-colonial America, especially in old western films.
Koraidon may originate from korai (Japanese for "ancient") and don (Spanish for "lord"). The suffix -don , meaning "tooth", is also most commonly given to dinosaur names. It may also incorporate "ride on", as it resembles a motorbike.
Miraidon is a large cybernetic draconic Pokémon. Most of its body is violet in color, although its face, claws, abdomen, and tail are metallic gray. Additionally, there are light purple accents on its shoulders and legs, the latter of which resemble jet engines when folded and allow it to float in the air. Its head has a dark purple casque, circular purple cheeks, two pairs of electric antennae, and black eyes. The eyes have a pixelated display; they usually show yellow-cyan pupils, although Miraidon can simulate blinking by changing the display pattern. Miraidon has a long neck and throat (forming a prominent circular growth) with bright of purplish-yellow plasma surging within, and white stripes accenting it. This internal plasma is mostly concentrated on its throat, tail, and antennae (which can emit the energy in a manner similar to electricity). The energy has a blue glow around the edges from all angles. Its particularly long, surging, striped tail that contains the same plasmic purple and yellow energy; the tip of its tail surges with plasma and is shaped like a lightning bolt, much like its electric antennae.
It is confirmed that Miraidon is the futuristic version of Cyclizar .
Despite being cybernetic in nature, almost fully robotic, Miraidon displays an advanced level of natural intelligence and perceptiveness. Much like a young tiger, it is quiet and calm, and carefully evaluating any potential trainer using keen insight before deciding to obey and follow. It utters low electronic-buzzing, burbling and growling noises that sound like a wildcat's cries. Miraidon's calm and enigmatic catlike nature makes it difficult to discern its thoughts or emotions, with subtle hints only visible in its LED-like electronic eyes. Being a cyborg, it is only part robot, and thus exhibits animal traits, such as the ability to consume food to regain strength, allowing it to access its transformations. It has a metallic-looking silver, segmented robotic tongue (as seen in the games and Pokémon Adventures manga) that allow it, as a cybernetic organism, to taste and enjoy food.
Miraidon has the ability to change its form in order to facilitate travel. Drive Mode Miraidon can generate the energy in its tail and throat and turn them into wheel-like rings, which allow it to accelerate. Aquatic Mode Miraidon is similar in appearance to Drive Mode, and propels itself using both its rings and the jet engines on its legs. Glide Mode Miraidon moves its antennae in order to expand an energy membrane, allowing it to glide and fly through the sky.
When in Ultimate Mode, it is always using its plasma-powered jet-engines to fly and levitate, even when sleeping. When in battle, its entire body surges with powerful plasma, and it moves at lightning speed as it flies high into the air, curls up, and strikes its opponent like a wheel of electricity . It is powered by a high-tech Hadron Engine , which is its special ability, sending a surge of electricity across the battlefield.
Miraidon cannot evolve.
Much remains unknown about this creature. It resembles Cyclizar, but it is far more ruthless and powerful.
This seems to be the Iron Serpent mentioned in an old book. The Iron Serpent is said to have turned the land to ash with its lightning.
A Miraidon made its debut in a short based on Team Rocket 's expedition to Paldea , where they tried to catch it. However, it noticed them and flew past them at high speed before electrocuting them, blasting them off.
Miraidon largely resembles an Asian dragon or dinosaur with futuristic cybernetic elements. With its striped body and cool and calculating personality, it has traits of tigers, possibly the raijū , a legendary tiger-like creature from Japanese mythology that is often associated with lightning and thunder.
It also shares traits with motorbikes (perhaps a reference to the light cycles from the TRON series), and futuristic air crafts, as the electrical parts on its head resemble handlebars, its throat resembles a bike tire, and it also has jet propellers on its sides.
Given the serepentine body and its typing, it may be pulling from Sugaar of Basque mythology, a deity who was sometimes depicted as a large dragon-like serpent and embodies itself as the god of thunder and storm in pre-Christian Basque beliefs.
Miraidon may also be partially inspired by the thought experiment known as Roko's basilisk , a thought experiment in which an artificial supercomputer creates a simulation in which it tortures those who know of its existence but did not contribute to it.
Miraidon may originate from mirai (未来, Japanese for "future") and don (Spanish for "lord"). The suffix -don , meaning "tooth", is also most commonly given to dinosaur names. It may also incorporate "ride on", as it resembles a motorbike and/or aircraft and a bicycle and the player can ride on it.
Ogerpon is a bipedal Pokémon that resembles a forest sprite. It has a round orange face, large yellow eyes with star-pupils, and a round-shaped plump body with covered in (or made of) in leaves and floral clothing (with the appearance of a Haori ). Its face is lined with a dark brown, almost black woody "hood" from which four thorns protrude, as well as a bud-like protrusion on the top of its head. Most of its body is covered by its leaf-like "coat". Its torso and plump belly are made of green leafy moss-like foliage, with a fringe of leaves at the end, and two thin dark brown woody legs and feet that resemble the trunk of a small tree, the insides of which are a lighter shade of brown. Both of its feet are adorned with small bud-like leaves, and it appears to have two toes. On its leafy belly are two yellow dot-like patches, and one star-shaped white mark. It wears various masks to use in battle that alter its typing:
According to the people of Kitakami , the mask it dons is described as fearsome and it referred as the evil ogre that once attacked Kitakami until it was stopped by The Loyal Three, Okidogi , Munkidori and Fezandipiti .
However, as revealed by Yukito , Ogerpon originally traveled with another person before it was bullied by Okidogi, Munkidori, Fezandipiti and their leader, Pecharunt . While it defeated them, the majority of Kitakami's inhabitants believed they had sacrificed their lives to protect them from the ogre and began fearing Ogerpon. Due to their bullying, Ogerpon has poor relationships with the four, particularly Pecharunt. In reality, Ogerpon is very kindhearted and joyful, yet timid with the tendency to becoming lonely.
Despite being timid around humans, Ogerpon does enjoy the Festival of Masks, being the one time where it can mingle with humans without fear.
Depending on the mask that Ogerpon carries, it can add an additional typing alongside its natural Grass , which in turn affects the typing of Ivy Cudgel , Ogerpon's signature move. Ogerpon is also capable of Terstallizing , which makes the masks grow in size and gain horns made out of crystal.
At an unknown point in time, Ogerpon was accompanied by a human companion and they arrived at Kitakami from a foreign land. They were shunned due to their strange appearance, and lived in the nearby Oni Mountain , isolated from the rest of the villagers of Mossui Town . Despite this, they were happy to have each other. The local mask maker took pity on them and created four special masks for the two to use, allowing them to mingle in the village festival, making them happy.
This happiness would not last, as the Pokémon Pecharunt and its retainers Okidogi , Munkidori and Fezandipiti , who had been tasked by an elderly couple to pilfer the masks, would discover them in Kitakami. Pecharunt's retainers located where they lived and attempted to pilfer the masks, only for Ogerpon's human companion to discover them. This resulted in a brawl with the companion severely beaten and only protecting the Teal Mask, while Okidogi and Fezandipiti stole the other three. When Ogerpon returned to its home, her companion was nowhere to be found and the masks stolen. Taking the remaining mask, she pursued Pecharunt and its retainers, defeating them all despite being at a disadvantage. The brazen act of violence (though only due to self-defense) near the village made the villagers think that Pecharunt's retainers were trying to protect the village, alienating Ogerpon even more. Ogerpon then returned to its home and has remained there ever since. Only the mask maker knew the truth, but he was also alienated and thus only kept the truth to his family, including his descendants.
During the events of The Teal Mask , Ogerpon would visit the village during the Festival of Masks. It dropped the Teal Mask and fled in fear of the player and Carmine , though they quickly learned of the truth from Yukito and helped restore the mask. When they attempted to return the mask after Kieran stole it (and unintentionally reviving the Loyal Three in the process), they found her being bullied by them. After making an example of Munkidori, the three left and took the masks from Kitakami Hall, while the two helped Ogerpon reclaim the masks. Upon returning back home, Ogerpon decided to let the player be its Trainer, as he/she reminded it of its former companion, entrusting all the masks to him/her.
Ogerpon does not evolve .
Ogerpon, along with Okidogi , Munkidori , Fezandipiti , and Pecharunt , are based on the creatures of the Japanese folktale; Momotarō . Ogerpon specifically represents the oni (ogres) of the folktale. Despite representing the role of the "oni" in the story, Ogerpon's design is drastically different, being similar to that of a benevolent forest sprites and various kind yet powerful female forest spirits of myth. Its body is coated with leaves, moss, thorns, and all kinds of various verdant foliage, in contrast to ogres (oni) who wear tiger pelts, have animal-like horns on their heads, and are all male. Ogerpon is also timid and kind despite her power, whereas oni (especially portrayed in the Japanese legend of Momotaro) are cruel and evil brutes.
The mask it carries may be based on various masks (some based on Japanese theatre-masks, and the Fire-type one resembling an oni's horned mask), which were once considered a bad omen, but for Ogerpon, being a good creature, act as a protective talisman.
Its name in all languages may be a corruption of the word Ogre (the English term for Oni) and Pon (a Japanese suffix for nicknames).
Normal form Terapagos is a turtle-like Pokémon with a dark blue body. Its shell looks like a light blue-yellow gradient gemstone, with a peculiar white design on the top. On its upper legs, there are teal, star-like ‘gems’, and it also has rings around its legs of the same color. It has a long tail, ending in the same star-like shape the legs have, it looks similar to a ‘+.’ Its neck appears similarly to its legs, starting with a teal ring with a star pattern above it. Its head has 3 teal diamond shaped gem extensions, 2 on the side and 1 on top, which the one on top has 3 diamonds shaped in a strand, that fades to a pink color. It has large, blue eyes with white star shapes for pupils.
Terastal form Terapagos is a turtle-like Pokémon with a primarily light-blue body, with a yellow gradient in some places. It appears to be quite fluffy as well. Its head is dark blue and has a pair of eyes with a light blue sclera. It has 2 diamond shapes through the center of its head that extend from the main body, as well as 1 on each side of its head. Terapagos also has a large shell covered with 19 scutes; 18 have different symbols on them, which seem to resemble different types. while the middle scute has a large gemstone embedded on it. Light blue diamond-looking scutes surround the ones with the types of icons, which go all the way around the bottom side of it as well. It has what appears to be 3 large, fluffy tails, with the same light blue-yellow gradient.
Stellar Form Terapagos itself looks very similar to Terastal Terapagos, in appearance. However, it floats above a crystalized half circle like object, which is surrounded by floating gems, each with a different type symbol in it, which in shape look like Normal form Terapagos’ shell. Above its back, there is a crown like crystal, with different colored diamond shapes on the bottom, which correspond in color to the floating gems. Above this 'crown', there is a crystal that resembles Normal form Terapagos. Once again, above this crystal, there is a crystal appearing to be the Terastal symbol. Stellar Terapagos also has many multicolored stars that float around it.
If Terapagos is in normal form and feels its life is in danger, it can pull its body into its shell, where it enters a dormant state, and appears like a jewel. When the wearer of this jewel is in life-threatening danger, Terapagos shields the wearer with its protect moves. The same phenomenon happens when Terapagos senses any life in danger in its active form.
The anime demonstrates that most Terapagos such as Pagogo are friendly and naive. However, a Terapagos that feels intimidated or provoked can becomes more aggressive than usual.
Normal form Terapagos can crystallize the energy in its body to form a protective shield. It is also said to have a splendid aura.
Terapagos was described in the Scarlet / Violet book, showing it with a connection to the Terastal phenomenon . Once somebody or Pokémon has been exposed to Terapagos long enough, they can use the Terastal phenomenon without needing a Tera Orb . A Terapagos can also blast flurries of Tera Starstorm through the power of its crystalization, which is the basis of its creation.
Terapagos can float in all of its forms.
Stellar Terapagos has the power to break a Master Ball .
Terapagos is not known to evolve , however, in Pokémon Horizons , it showed a smaller variant of Terapagos. It was unknown what the relationship between the two Pokémon was for several months. It was later revealed to be Terapagos’s normal form.
Terapagos starts a battle in its normal form, before its signature ability Tera Shift transforms it into its Terestal form. This also applies to Let's Go!/synchro machine auto-battles. It assumes its Stellar form by simply Terastalizing.
[ Notes 1 ]
Terapagos is based on the World Turtle , the turtle that in Hinduism is supposed to contain the World.
The long tails found on its Terastal and Stellar forms may be inspired by the Minogame (蓑亀), a turtle creature of Japanese mythology that represents longevity.
Terapagos is derived from " Terastal " and "Galapagos", a reference to the Galápagos tortoise .
I choose you! ( 君に決めた! , Kimi ni kimeta! ? )
Ash Ketchum is the main protagonist of Pokémon the Series from Pokémon the Series: The Beginning to Pokémon Journeys: The Series . He is a 10-year-old Pokémon Trainer from Pallet Town in the Kanto region who has always dreamed of becoming the world's best Pokémon Master . The first human character introduced in the series, he is the winner of the Orange League and Kanto Battle Frontier and the Alola region's Pokémon Champion , receiving the title after winning its first Pokémon League Conference . He is also one of the eight best trainers in the Pokémon World after defeating Raihan and reached Master Class in the World Coronation Series . Ash became the Monarch (World Champion) and became the Strongest Pokémon Trainer in the Pokémon World after winning the Masters Eight Tournament defeating the Previously Monarch Leon .
On his 10th birthday, Ash realized he overslept and rushed to Professor Oak 's Laboratory to get his first Pokémon . Originally wanting to choose Squirtle , Bulbasaur or Charmander , but he ended up receiving the Pokémon Pikachu instead, as he arrived late (thus leaving him with no other Starters to choose from even though this was his birthday). At first, Pikachu did not obey Ash and kept running away, so Ash had to tie him up. After getting chased by a flock of Spearow later in the day thanks to Ash's recklessness, Ash attempted to save Pikachu from them. Seeing that Ash was so determined to help him, Pikachu protected Ash from the Spearow by electrocuting the entire flock (which was thanks to being struck by lightning at that exact moment and having his Electric-type move supercharged). From then on, Pikachu and Ash became best friends. As an unskilled Trainer, Ash traveled with Misty and Brock throughout the Kanto region, capturing new Pokémon along the way.
Ash eventually managed to collect every badge from the Gym Leaders (although some of his badges were earned out of gratitude due to varying circumstances), allowing him to enter in the Indigo Plateau Conference . Since then, Ash has continued to travel, journeying through the various regions and making new friends, from Misty and Brock to Chloe and Goh . With each new region he traveled to, Ash continued to challenge all the Gym Leaders, entering Pokémon League Conferences and catching new Pokémon while still following his goal of becoming a Pokémon Master. Since this goal is so close to his heart, he sometimes acts a bit rash and rushes to the next battle he can as fast as possible without thinking.
While Ash was traveling, he was constantly pursued by Team Rocket 's Jessie , James , and Meowth , who wanted his Pikachu. They chased him across all the regions so far and are still chasing them to this day. Team Rocket never manages to capture Pikachu though, due to Ash's other Pokémon and friends helping him.
Ash used to work at the Cerise Laboratory as a research assistant along with his new friend Goh , all while competing in the World Coronation Series and eventually became the current Monarch. After parting ways from Goh, Ash resumed traveling where he reunited with Misty and Brock as they travel together once again. However, the three went their separate ways again to return home. Eventually, Ash decided that he wants to continue having adventures and meet new Pokémon in order to become a Pokémon Master. Through this resolve, Ash left Pallet Town once again to resume his journey.
His Japanese first-person pronoun is 「俺 (ore)」.
Ash is a tall boy with black hair, slightly tan skin, and brown eyes with two distinctive Z-shaped markings underneath each eye. Ash's pupils were not visible during the Kanto arc of Pokémon the Series: The Beginning and through ‘’Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl until Pokémon the Series: Black & White made them more profound and distinguishable.
While Ash wears a few different outfits, he always wears a red baseball cap, which changes depending on the region he is in. Without a cap, Ash is shown to have a cowlick and a narrow, triangular, and edgy tuft of hair in the middle of his forehead that comes to a point on the right side.
Ash wore a red and white hat with a green stylized "L", a blue short-sleeved jacket with gold buttons and trim, a white collar and sleeves over a black T-shirt, light blue cuffed jeans, a brown ratchet belt with a sliver buckle, green fingerless gloves with light green cuffs, black and white high-top sneakers with a red dot on each inner side, and a green backpack.
Ash's eye pupils were not visibly shown, his lightning bolt-like markings are tilted and slightly longer and his spiky hair is sharper.
Ash's outfit remains unchanged from The Beginning.
Ash wore new clothing. He wore a red hat with a rounded black stripe down the middle with a green half Poké Ball symbol on it, a black t-shirt with a red stripe under a blue sleeveless hoodie with a gold button closure, gold trim, a white hood, and a semicircle symbol on the pocket, light blue pants, black fingerless gloves with light green cuffs, blue and black sneakers, and a green backpack.
Ash wore a red and black hat with a light blue half Poké Ball symbol, a black vest with a curved yellow stripe over the chest and a white collar, a white t-shirt, baggy light blue cargo pants, black fingerless gloves with light green cuffs, black and red sneakers, and a green backpack.
Ash wore a red and white hat with a blue Poké Ball symbol, a blue and white short-sleeved hoodie with a golden zipper, dark gray pants, dark gray fingerless gloves with red cuffs, red and dark gray high-top sneakers, and a teal and dark gray packpack.
Ash's eye pupils are visible shown and his lightning bolts-like markings are slightly smaller.
Ash wore a red hat with a white brim and white semicircle symbol, a blue and white short-sleeved jacket, a black t-shirt, dark grey pants, black fingerless gloves with red cuffs, red high-top sneakers with black accents, and a gray, bluish green, and white backpack.
Ash's body looks the same only that he has tufts of hair on each side of his head that covers the top of his ears. Also, the jolt-like markings underneath his eyes are smaller than usual.
Ash wore a red hat with a stylized circle symbol an a white brim with a blue edge, a blue t-shirt with white stripes and a circle symbol on the chestloose short-sleeved shirt with white and blue stripes, brown bapris with red accents, , baggy pockets and red folded sleeves at the edge, and blue, white, and light blue sneakers. Ash also kept a silver Z-Ring on his left wrist, which was later upgraded into a black Z-Power Ring . Unlike in previous regions, Ash did not wear gloves while he was in Alola .
As a member of the Ultra Guardians , Ash wears an indigo and white uniform with light periwinkle accents as the edge of the short sleeves, collar and inlines of his uniform are black. He wears matching indigo gloves.
In " A Young Royal Flame Ignites! ", while teaming up alongside Professor Kukui disguised as Masked Royal and Ash Royal, he goes shirtless but retains his capris and sneakers from his primary outfit and dons a red flame designed wrestling mask with green and light blue with blue designs at the back of his mask. The wrestling mask was given by Kukui before they teamed up together at the Battle Royal.
Ash's sided spike hair has decreased a bit and are rounder, his eyebrows and his spike hair tuft are shorter than usually seen in previously. When he is not wearing his hat, his hair remains the same, only smoother, and shorter.
Ash's two lightning bolts-like markings are slightly bigger.
Ash wears a red hat with a stylized black "C" symbol with a small green circle in it and a white brim, a blue vest with a gold zipper, a white t-shirt with a red stripe across the middle, indigo shorts with a black stripe on each outer side, black fingerless gloves, and black and blue sneakers. During his second visit to Galar, he wears a Dynamax Band on his right wrist which he obtained from Leon. Also, Ash sometimes wears his Z-Power Ring on his left wrist or his Mega Glove whenever he is battling in an important match, especially World Coordination Series battles of the Ultra Class. During a visit to Kalos, Ash wears a Key Stone embedded to one of his gloves that resembled the ones he wore during his Unova and Kalos journeys that he obtained from Korrina .
Ash's sided spiky hair has increased a bit and are sharper like they were before; his eyebrows and his spiky hair tuft is larger than usually seen in previously. When he is not wearing his hat, his hair remains the same, only smoother and shorter. Ash's two lightning bolt-like markings still remain slightly bigger like they were throughout the entire of the Sun and Moon Series. However, his eyes are a bit wider than they were before.
When working at Laxton's farm in " How Are You Gonna Keep 'Em Off of the Farm? ", Ash wore blue coveralls, grey gloves, and black boots.
In his latest appearance of the series, he currently wears new black sneakers with red highlights and the green insignia that bears a resemblance to the official Pokémon League cap's logo worn by him since the beginning of his journey .
Ash is very determined to be a great Pokémon Trainer. Personality-wise, Ash is a strong person, shows confidence when battling and shows a lot of sympathy towards Pokémon, usually helping and befriending them through his long journey. As a result, Ash doesn't like Trainers who mistreat Pokémon, such as Damian , Paul , and Shamus . Ash also serves as a role model for many people such as May , Dawn , N , Serena , Sawyer , Lillie , and Goh . In fact, he often astounds people with his skills and abilities, and unpredictability. Ash's strategy and tactics in battle are usually problem-solving, including thinking on his feet during special matches or that relate to the special and unique abilities of Pokémon. Also, Ash even takes input from his friends and has always helped him whenever he was stuck in a jam.
Ash is generally kind, brave, enthusiastic, compassionate, passionate, adventurous, selfless, fair-minded, trusting, and good-natured. However, he can be stubborn, hot-headed, short-tempered, impatient, cocky, reckless, and sometimes impulsive at times. During his journey, Ash realized that some of those traits were affecting him, as they had caused him to lose some of his gym battles. By recognizing this, Ash trained himself for his rematches and keeping those parts of himself in check so they would not only affect him in battle again, but also outside of it as well. Although those traits still remain, they have been shown to be less of a problem during his Pokémon battles. Thanks to his hard work, Ash has corrected the hot-headed, cocky, and impulsive parts of his personality, though he still shows them if Pokémon were being mistreated, some of his friends teasing him, and various other reasons. Since then, Ash has demonstrated much greater maturity and level-headedness both in and out of battles. In addition, he has given everyone around him good advice to better themselves and their goals. Ash also has a fascination with science and technology, even though he cannot understand most of it.
Ash with Pikachu, Poipole, and Rotom Dex, Professor Kukui, Professor Burnet, and their Pokémon in a portrait, drawn by Mina.
Ash has a hard time opening up to others, as he does not like to talk about his feelings and his past. At first, he had difficult times when it came to taking advice or criticism from his peers, especially from his friends, but that changed as time went on. While Ash has grown to be more open towards talking about his feelings and taking advice or criticism, he still has trouble opening up about his past sometimes. However, Ash does open up about his past with his friends and Pokémon whenever the topic comes up, though it is only if he needs someone to talk to or if he felt like talking about it, since it either reflects a mistake of his or it makes him feels comfortable sharing to anyone who is closest to him. Despite being more open, Ash still shows his stubborn side at times, although it's mostly shown when he is depressed or upset.
Ash is also honest and a Trainer that keeps his word as he usually doesn't break promises to his friends, family, and Pokémon, although he does the same thing for ones that aren't his. Sometimes, Ash makes promises to himself as well, which was shown during his first Pokémon League competition where he decided to not repeat the same mistakes, he made in future League competitions. This was shown again after the events of the Kalos crisis, as Ash blamed himself for what happened when he unknowingly revealed one of his abilities to a leader of a villainous organization, which ended up putting himself and his Pokémon, Pikachu and his Kalos Pokémon, in danger. After that event, Ash decided to keep his special abilities, Aura and Bond Phenomenon, hidden from others. However, Ash has only told a few of his friends and Pokémon about his abilities as he has faith in them. So far, Ash has not told his mother, Misty, Tracey, Iris, Cilan, Lana, Kiawe, Lillie, Sophocles, Mallow, Goh, Chloe, and the rest of his Pokémon family about his rare abilities. When questioned or comforted about the skills or powers he possesses and the mysteries he holds, Ash had shown to panic about that or somewhat denies what he can do, which was mainly shown with Gladion and Goh, as he not only sees himself as an ordinary Trainer just on his journey to reach his goals but is also trying to protect the ones he cares deeply for.
Despite this, Ash has trained his Pokémon that are connected to his abilities. In addition to keeping his abilities hidden, Ash decided to keep his "Alola Pokémon League Champion" reputation a secret from anyone outside the Region, excluding a couple individuals, as he wanted to resume his journey as a Trainer, not as a regional Pokémon League Champion. Although Ash's other reason for wanting to keep his "Alola Pokémon League Champion" reputation a secret was because he was worried that he wasn't going to be taken seriously. However, after finding out that Iris became the Champion of Unova region and having a homecoming in Alola, Ash came to accept that he couldn't keep his reputation a secret anymore and realized that he was taken seriously as both a Champion and Trainer, as he didn't mind being called Champion in the Masters Tournament.
On the other side, Ash has a natural, inborn love for battling. He enjoys battling Gym Leaders and anyone who challenges him, especially Trainers with a similar zeal and passion as him. However, while Ash is passionate, a good battler, and has a lot of achievements under his belt, he loses most of the Pokémon Leagues he challenges, though his skills have improved overtime. Prior to becoming the Monarch in the Masters Eight Tournament , Ash had only triumphed over the Orange League in the Orange Archipelago and the Manalo Conference in the Alola region.
Additionally, despite his confidence and zeal, Ash can be modest and humble as he sometimes gets embarrassed when complimented on his skills as a Trainer, but it does not happen very often. In addition, Ash does not usually admit that he has not changed one bit, although it shows that he stays true to who he is, even when everyone around him notices it when he doesn't. Also, Ash has shown an insecure side, as he does worry about what his friends that he travels or travel with and his Pokémon family would think of him as a person, shown when his mother would say embarrassing things about him in front of his friends or Pokémon and when he got defensive by Brock and Misty as they reminded him about how he got their badges for petty reasons over getting them in battle right in front of his classmates along with his teachers, but one of the reasons for that side was because he knows he would get teased or scolded about it, which makes him either upset or defends himself. Although Ash's main reason for his insecurity side was because he wants everyone around him, especially his friends and Pokémon, to see him for the person they came to be known instead of who he used to be. However, Ash has seen that people close to him do not care about who he used to be, which not only shows that they have great faith in him but also that they are their true friends towards him. Despite the insecurities he has, Ash at times doesn't care about what anybody thinks of him, which shows how confident he is about being himself. At the beginning of his journey, Ash used to brag about his achievements, but overtime didn't say anything about his previous accomplishment that much, although he does mention them sometimes but not as much in a bragging tone.
Ash with Pikachu and his Journeys Pokémon Aiming to Battling Leon in the World Coronation Series.
Despite his wins and losses, Ash knows he has a long way to go to make his dream a reality and continues traveling along with growing stronger to pursue it. Besides the Gym battles and Pokémon Leagues, Ash also enjoys competing in other special challenges and competitions such as the Battle Frontier in his home region Kanto, the Trials and Grand Trials in the Alola region, and the World Coronation Series in the Galar Region.
Ash's biggest fear is losing anyone he's really close to, especially his friends and family. However, Ash is afraid to lose his Pokémon family even more, due to Team Rocket's constant attempts to steal his Pokémon away from him. Similarly, Ash is afraid of putting everyone he cares about in danger. Ever since the time Pikachu temporarily had amnesia and sided with Team Rocket , Ash became afraid that his Pokémon might leave him the same way his partner and best friend almost did. Ash is also worried that he won't meet his Pokémon family's expectations or be strong enough for them. Because of his fears, Ash sometimes doubts his Pokémon potential, which also affects his faith and trust in them as well, especially when some of them display a unique kind of power in their strengths. In the XY series, Ash almost lost himself when he let his fears get to him, but Serena reminded him of who he is and helped him get his act together. However, Ash does put his fears aside to help his Pokémon become stronger, which in turn helps him get over his fears altogether, albeit slowly. Because of that, Ash is often able to help Pokémon with a rare ability to perfect their true power.
Ash has also been shown to have a strong sense of justice. He doesn't hesitate to assist Officer Jenny , the Pokémon Rangers , and the International Police in their missions. He has a hatred for evil organizations, such as Team Rocket , Team Aqua , Team Magma , Team Galactic , Team Plasma , Team Flare , and Team Skull . Also, Ash doesn't like Pokémon hunters, especially J . Ash regularly risks his own life to protect Pokémon and defeat criminals.
Also, he can be rambunctious, big-hearted, optimistic, sometimes naive, highly ambitious, accepting, independent, and mature.
Ash has quite a few abilities and skills. First and foremost is his athleticism, despite his young age, as Ash is very athletic and physically able. In fact, Ash was once even called a "human Mankey" because of his skill at climbing. Aside from climbing, Ash can run, swing on vines, carry heavy loads, and swim. Ash can also survive Pokémon attacks for a long period of time without taking too much damage, although it depends on the situation. Additionally, while Ash is a talented battler, he also has some performing skills due to competing in a couple of Pokémon Contests along with watching May and Dawn's performances. Likewise, Ash has good fishing skills. Also, Ash has some interesting cooking skills due to spending a lot of time around friends who can cook, and deep knowledge about Pokémon due to his many experiences. Ash can also administer first-aid to Pokémon.
Much like an Aura Guardian, Ash can sense and control Aura . However, after obtaining a Key Stone, Ash's Aura powers were increased. Also, Ash has shown the ability to use Bond Phenomenon , as showcased in the XY series with his Greninja. Ash even demonstrated great skills in utilizing Z-Moves , as shown in the Sun & Moon series. In addition, Ash even created his own Z-Crystal, Pikashunium Z, and performed an exclusive Z-Move with Pikachu known as 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt . Also, Ash even demonstrated some skills in utilizing Dynamax and Gigantamax , as shown in the Journey series. Unlike some Trainers, Ash is able to Gigantamax his Pikachu without having him return to his Poké Ball. In addition, Ash can perform Mega Evolution , which he does with his Lucario .
Ash's connection with Azelf.
Much like Dawn, Ash sometimes displays the ability to understand the feelings of Pokémon, due to spending a lot of time around them. His connection with Pokémon is so great that he even sometimes displays the ability to share a connection with Mythical or Legendary Pokémon, such as Diancie or Mewtwo . This is because of Ash's compassion and his strong will power to protect them; instances of it were shown when Azelf chose to connect with Ash in the Diamond & Pearl series, Battle Dimension and Galactic Battles, and when Victini linked up with him in the movie Black/White Victini and Zekrom/Reshiram.
Ash's link with Victini.
When Ash has a connection with Mythical or Legendary Pokémon, he can feel their pain, sense if they have been captured, and see their thoughts or memories. On the other side of the link, the Pokémon can appear to Ash in his dreams to ask him for help, show him impending danger, or as a way of asking him to do something for them, as shown with Azelf, Victini, Solgaleo , and Lunala . Ash has also shown the ability to hear what Legendary Pokémon are saying, shown with Solgaleo, Lunala, and Lugia . At times, Ash has shown the ability to sense the presence of Pokémon or people whenever any of them are nearby or if they're in danger.
One of Ash's other abilities is that he can learn new things really fast as he picks it up right away, although there have been times that he needed to practice first before figuring it out. Also, during battle, Ash can come up with strategies easily as he would use the environment to his advantages or find a flaw in his opponent's strategies.
Ash's battling tactics skill is versatility and unpredictability, while Ash can use type advantages against his opponents, he can turn a disadvantage into a comeback and overpower opponents by combining moves using his own moves in conjunction with the environment around him. Like having his Charizard melt the battlefield during his battle against Gary's Blastoise to trap it and creating the Counter Shield to counter Fantina's Ghost Pokémon. Ash can also turn his opponents own moves against themselves turning them into his own move like using Gladion's Lycanroc Counter to fuel his own Lycanroc's Counter or using Iris's Haxorus Dragon Pulse turning it into Dragonite's Draco Meteor. Ash also uses this skill when it comes to leadership, having people and Pokémon work together to protect each other, and overcome the problem.
Ash and his mother, Delia
Since Delia is Ash's mother, they have a healthy, loving relationship, although it does run into rocky spots at times. Ash loves his mother very much and cares about her, but he gets annoyed when she embarrasses him, especially in The Beginning and Gold and Silver (the 1997 Pocket Monsters series), where she constantly reminded him to change his underwear every single day. When Delia was kidnapped in The Spell of the Unown , Ash went through great lengths to get her back. Ash appreciates it when his mother comments on how much he has grown as a person and as a Pokémon Trainer, and he is very grateful that his mother supports him by watching his Pokémon League battles and helping him get ready to go on another journey. Also, Ash was happy that his mother was there when he first became Champion of Alola.
While their relationship in the TV show is unknown, in the movie Pokémon The Movie: The Secrets of the Jungle, it's revealed that Ash has a close relationship with his father, the latter being the main reason he never gave up on his dreams by always encouraging him whenever other children made fun of Ash's dreams. He mentions this to Koko and talks about how Koko and Zarude's quarreling reminds him of his own relationship with his dad, implying that the two of them argued a lot, but also mentions how eventually, their quarreling will stop, and they will still care about each other, showing how close Ash and his father are.
Ash and Professor Oak
Ash and Professor Oak have a strong bond. This is because Oak is a family friend and has known Ash since he was little. In fact, Ash even went to Professor Oak's summer camp when he was a young boy, which was also where he met his friend Serena. Aside from the strong, almost family bond that Ash and Oak share, he also respects him as a researcher and professor. Ash sometimes goes to Professor Oak for advice and calls him whenever he needs one of the Pokémon that he has kept in storage as he trusts him to look after his Pokémon family while he travels. Much like his mother, Ash also appreciates whenever Professor Oak gives him support, whether it is for a Pokémon League tournament or for his new journeys. In addition, Ash was pleased that Professor Oak witnessed him becoming the first Champion of Alola.
Ash and Misty
When Ash first met Misty, they did not get off on the right foot. Ash was forced to "borrow" Misty's bike to save his partner's life, and he accidentally destroyed the vehicle with Pikachu's Thundershock attack. At first, Ash initially didn't want Misty around and disliked that she kept following him, as she claims that she was going to follow him around until he paid her back for her accidentally destroyed bike, though her reasons changed as she not only forgot about her destroyed bike, but also forgave him, as she understood that he had noble intentions, and it wasn't entirely on purpose.
Ash eventually changed his opinion about Misty, as she became a mentor to him and helped him become a great Pokémon Trainer. Despite their initial differences, Ash eventually grew to care for Misty and became best friends with her, although they do tease each other from time to time. They have each other's backs and would do anything for each other. Despite their newfound friendship, however, aside from Misty's demanded payback for her fried bike, because she tries to keep Ash in order to make sure he doesn't flunk his training and battles, the two continued to argue a lot (whether if it's justifiable or not), with some of their fights often going violent and even escalating to the point in them almost losing their friendship. A significant argument arose when Misty called Ash both a baby and a lazy trainer as he moped over his loss in the Indigo League (because his Charizard was being disobedient), which infuriated Ash; this argument became so intense that Pikachu had to step in with a Thunderbolt to calm things down. Despite all this, Ash and Misty will always show that their still friends and always make up from their flaws in the end, and over time, their arguments grew less frequent. However, the playful teasing between them continued, and they will occasionally became competitive and engage in a friendly rivalry as they tried to outdo one another.
Ash and Misty in yukata outfits.
After their travels in Kanto, Ash and Misty traveled through the Orange Islands and Johto together. Once their journey through Johto had ended, Ash and Misty parted ways when she was forced to run the Cerulean Gym while her sisters went on an "around-the-world" cruise, which they had won as a prize in a beauty contest. After Misty got her bike back, as it was repaired by the Viridian City's Nurse Joy and returned to her, Ash was happy that his friend would get to her hometown much faster. However, Misty became upset with Ash when he believed that the repayment for her bike was the reason she traveled with him in the first place. Ash was clueless when Misty ran out of the Pokémon Center, but Brock helped him see that she wanted to continue traveling with them. Finding that Misty was in trouble, Ash and Brock rushed to her defense. Also, Ash assured Misty that their journey together was never truly about repayment for her bike. After everything was resolved, Ash and Misty parted ways to go back to their hometowns.
Ash and Misty surfing together.
Despite no longer traveling together, Ash and Misty, who decided to run the Cerulean Gym full time, maintained their strong friendship for one another. Also, even though he would not admit it to her, Ash treasures the fishing lure Misty gave him as a gift and does use it but tries not to damage it, which shows that he still cares about her. When Misty and Brock traveled to Alola, Ash was very pleased and enjoyed their time together, showing that their bond had not dwindled. Ash was happy to see Misty again while he was at a beach and that she set off on a new journey. However, like Brock, Ash gets annoyed when Misty would get overly excited about Water -type Pokémon.
After returning home from Galar following his victory in the Masters Eight Tournament, Ash reunited with Misty once more, where the two had a Pokémon battle to decide who gets to catch Clauncher, with the battle ending in Misty's favor. After the battle, Ash pretended that he didn't want Misty to travel with him again. However, without admitting the truth, Ash secretly wanted Misty around, and having realized both that she misses the same thing and Pikachu wanted to have her around, Ash let her join once more, which shows that he missed traveling with her, and didn't buy her reason for following him. Unfortunately, Ash and Misty went their separate ways again, but they know that they'll see each other again one day.
Ash and Brock
While Ash and Brock disagreed at first, they quickly became friends. Their bond soon became even stronger, resulting in them becoming best friends when they traveled the Kanto region together. When Brock stayed with Professor Ivy for a while, Ash understood his reasons. After Brock eventually returned, the two boys traveled together from Johto through Sinnoh. Through their travels, Ash grew to view Brock as a big brother figure and one of his mentors, as he would often give him helpful advice to better himself as a Trainer or help him see through his mistakes.
Ash and Brock are always there for each other. They do not usually fight with one another, but whenever they have a small fallout, they make up quickly. However, Ash and Brock almost lost their friendship when one of Team Rocket's tricks got out of hand, but they mended it when the truth became clear. In addition, Ash and Brock sometimes practice battles together. Ash trusts Brock to keep his Aura powers a secret. They officially parted ways when their travels in Sinnoh ended, when Brock decided to become a Pokémon Doctor and Ash continued traveling to fulfill his ambitions. After going their separate ways, Ash and Brock maintained their lasting friendships with one another, as shown when Ash briefly traveled to the Kanto region with his schoolmates. This was also shown when Brock briefly traveled to the Alola region with Misty and Ash reunited with him in Sinnoh. However, Ash reunites with Brock in Galar as he decides to travel with him and Misty once again. Although, Ash and Brock went their separate ways once more, but they know that they might see each other again someday.
Ash and Tracey
Ash and Tracey are pretty close friends and have a great respect for each other, as they traveled together through the Orange Islands. They hardly disagree with each other, but when they do, they make up pretty quickly. The two boys eventually parted ways when Tracey became Professor Oak's assistant, though they still maintain a strong friendship. While Ash continued traveling, the boys sometimes see each other when the latter comes back home to Pallet Town.
Ash and May
May is one of Ash's best friends. They met when May witnessed Ash trying to save his Pikachu from danger when he was confused from an Electric build up, after an accident caused by Team Rocket. Like with Misty, Ash and his Pikachu accidentally fried May's bike. However, unlike Misty, May kept her cool, quickly forgave them, and never demanded payback as she immediately understood both Pikachu's condition at the time and how much Ash has been taking care of him. After May guilt tripped her accidentally destroyed bike on him, and seeing that she was a new trainer who needed help with both catching Pokémon and traveling, Ash let her come along with him. They traveled through Hoenn and the Battle Frontier together, helping each other along the way. When May chose to become a Pokémon Coordinator, Ash gave her his full support and helped her in any way he could. Ash became a mentor to May and guided her in the ways of a Pokémon Trainer. In fact, they trained together for Ash's battles and for May's contests.
Sometimes, Ash and May have their fights, one of which almost caused them to lose their friendship when their ideas were working against each other as a result of them not cooperating during a tag battle against a couple , but they always make up from their mistakes in the end. However, though Ash fought with May numerous times, his fights with her (even their most severe ones) never became violent like those he had with Misty, as his and May's fights were mainly disagreements, most of which were with regards to whether they should go to Ash's next gym battle or May's next contest. Ash has faith in May as he trusts her to keep his Aura abilities hidden from anyone that wasn't their friend. Although they went their separate ways to continue making their dreams come true, their friendship remained intact, as shown when they cross paths again in Sinnoh.
Ash and Max
Ash and Max are best friends. They share a common love for Pokémon and liked to do their own things while May and Brock went shopping in towns or cities throughout Hoenn and the Battle Frontier. Ash acts like a big brother figure towards Max and protects him. Also, Ash hardly had any fights with Max and trusts him to know about his Aura abilities. When Max was going to return to Hoenn while May traveled through Johto, Ash promised him that when he became a Pokémon Trainer, they would have a battle together. Although Ash knows his friendship with Max will remain till the end.
Ash and Dawn
Ash shares an unbreakable friendship with Dawn. As a sign of their bond, they easily get along and often high-five each other whenever something good happens to them. They also stand up for each other and have each other's backs. Similarly, to what he did for May, Ash mentored Dawn in the ways of a Pokémon Trainer and helped her as a Pokémon Coordinator.
Unlike Ash's relationships with his past female companions, his bond with Dawn is characterized by a lack of constant disagreements and judgment. Although they can annoy each other with their actions and sometimes fight a little, they often demonstrate strong teamwork. Even their most severe arguments—such as the one at the start of their journey together , and another when they failed to cooperate in a tag battle against a set of twins —pale in comparison to Ash's disputes with either Misty or May, as these arguments were never serious enough for him and Dawn to jeopardize their friendship, and they'll make up from their mistakes rather quickly. Similar to his relationship with May alone, Ash and Dawn’s occasional conflicts primarily stemmed from disagreements and never escalated to violence.
Contrary to both Misty and May, Ash wasn't notified by Dawn until much later that his Pikachu had accidentally destroyed her bike , though like May alone, Dawn remained calm and forgiving. Another difference is that while Misty sought compensation and May simply made Ash feel guilty, Dawn never once held a grudge against him or Pikachu for her bike’s damage, even though she was slightly disappointed with Pikachu. The three were able to share a laugh about the incident, particularly since Ash wasn't present when Pikachu caused the damage, and Team Rocket was pursuing them the same day they met.
Ash and Dawn high fiving.
Ash also supported Dawn and cheered her on during her Contests, while she cheered him on during his Gym Battles, and she sometimes dressed up in a cheerleader outfit for him. Like with Brock, Ash and Dawn also practiced battles to help their skill levels. Through their time together, Ash sees Dawn as a very trusting friend as he tells her about his Aura powers. After they went their separate ways, Ash and Dawn remained best friends, shown when they saw each other again in Unova, Sinnoh and Galar.
During their reunion in Galar, Ash was pleased that Dawn (along with Chloe ) was there to see him battle Leon in the Masters Eight Tournament finals. She then congratulated him after he won the battle against Leon and became the new Monarch.
Ash and Iris
Ash and Iris are good friends. They respect each other's skills and the love they have for Pokémon. Much like his relationship with Misty, however, Ash and Iris do tease each other from time to time, although he also gets annoyed when she calls him a kid. Though their first exchange was a bit rocky when Iris scolded Ash for mistaking her for a Pokémon and throwing a Pokéball at her, their overall relationship still started off on a much more positive note compared to Ash's first exchange with Misty, as Iris quickly forgave him after he apologizes and explains that he was unaware where the Pokémon, Axew, was. Iris also praises Ash, acknowledging that even if he's still a kid, she's still impressed by his will to save Pokémon. The two trained for battles together during their journey and enjoy doing various activities together.
On occasions, Ash and Iris do fight sometimes, with one of their fights almost costing them their friendship when they both overreacted towards each other , but they'll always patch things up at the end. Their fights tend to be just as frequent, but slightly more intense compared to those Ash had with May, as Iris went as far as to dump him as a friend and temporarily left the group, though she eventually rejoined and assisted them in a battle against Team Rocket. However, like with both May and occasionally Dawn sometimes, yet, unlike with Misty, Ash’s fights with Iris were primarily disagreements and rarely escalated into real violence; the worst Iris had done was throw a bitter berry at him in frustration.
Ash and Iris as champions, Alola and Unova.
After arriving in Kanto, Ash and Iris went their separate ways to fulfill their dreams. However, they both knew they'd always be friends no matter where they went. After getting a letter from Iris for a battle, Ash decided to not only accept her challenge, but also see her again. Once he reunites with her, Ash was pleased to hear that Iris is the new champion of Unova and was also participating in the World Coronation Series, which shows how strong their friendship still is, although they did engage in a brief but competitive argument shortly before the battle. Ash and Iris had their battle where he emerges victorious, advancing him to the Ultra Class in the World Coronation Series. They then both agree to battle again one day. Ash was later surprised to see that Iris reached the Master Class in the World Coronation Series. However, he was happy to reunite with her once again during the Masters Eight Tournament and came to comfort her, after she lost to Cynthia. Also, Ash appreciated Iris's support when she wished him good luck for the remainder of the tournament.
Ash and Cilan
Ash and Cilan are close friends. Also, Ash greatly respects Cilan as a Pokémon Connoisseur and as a Gym Leader. Much like his relationship with Brock, Ash enjoys Cilan's cooking and doesn't usually fight with him, but when they do, they make up right away. In addition, Ash would be helped by Cilan as he helps him see through his mistakes. Before going their separate ways, Ash was told by Cilan how much he learned from him. Pleased, Ash said he felt the same way about him. Although Ash and Cilan friendship will remain no matter where their journeys take them, which was shown when he reunited with him in Galar. Also, Ash got a fishing lure from Cilan and not only uses it but also treasures it, much like he does with the one he got from Misty.
Ash and Clemont
Clemont is one of Ash's best friends. Like with Iris, they practiced battles with one another during their journey. While Ash respects Clemont as a Gym Leader, he also admires his inventions and cooking. Like with his previous male companions, Ash and Clemont rarely fought. On the other side, Ash would be looked out for by Clemont, as he would sometimes warn him about impending danger. Ash trusts Clemont to know about his Bond Phenomenon ability. After their journey concluded together, Ash went back home to resume his journey while Clemont stayed to run his gym with Bonnie right beside him. However, Ash and Clemont knew that they'll always be friends no matter where they are, which was confirmed by a brief reunion.
Ash and Bonnie
Ash and Bonnie are good friends. They both have a great love for Pokémon, and Ash cares for Bonnie like a little sister. Like with Max, Ash is protective of Bonnie and would do anything to keep her safe from danger. They both like to have fun with Pokémon and do related activities with them as well. Like with his male companions, Ash hardly had any arguments with Bonnie. Ash knows that Bonnie will keep his Bond Phenomenon ability a secret. When their journey together ended, Ash and Bonnie went their separate ways as he went home to find out his next move as a Trainer while she stayed in Kalos alongside Clemont. Ash also knows that he'll always be friends with Bonnie, which was confirmed by a brief reunion.
Ash and his childhood friend, Serena.
Serena is Ash's childhood friend, though they had an estranged relationship due to being separated for many years. They first met many years ago at Professor Oak's summer camp, where Ash helped Serena with a knee injury that she received when she got spooked by a Poliwag, tripping and skinning her knee. Ash and Serena were separated for many years until she eventually saw the boy on TV one day. Rushing to Santalune City to meet her savior, Serena was initially disappointed to find out that Ash didn't recognize her at first. When he planned to go to his next Gym, Ash asked Serena what she was going to do next, though seeing that she was unsure he asked her if she wanted to travel with him and the group, an offer that she happily accepted. However, after being shown the handkerchief he used on her knee back at Professor Oak's camp, Ash remembered meeting Serena when he was little, calling her the "girl with the straw hat." Although their friendship was mended, Ash's relationship with Serena grew to a close friendship as they would give each other helpful advice and supported each other during their long journey through Kalos.
Ash and Serena when they were younger.
Ash was clueless to Serena's very strong crush on him during their journey, which she never denied her feelings for when asked or confronted as she would become initially embarrassed and tried to keep it a secret. Much like his relationship with Dawn, Ash hardly has any disagreements with Serena, and the two are never judgmental of each other. However, Ash's friendship with Serena is taken to the next level as he didn't irritate her with his antics, nearly resembling Ash's relationships with both his male companions and with Bonnie. Furthermore, whenever Serena scolded Ash, she was gentle yet assertive, displaying a calm firmness that indicated her understanding of how to be strict without losing her cool.
Despite all this, though, the two did have a fallout when Ash snapped at Serena for not understanding his feelings , after initially losing a Gym battle for his last Kalos badge . Unlike his typical disputes with his past female companions, this fight wasn't a full-blown argument as Serena was only trying to help Ash snap out of his depression. Even when she reacted angrily and threw snowballs at him to snap him out of his mood, her tone still conveyed more assertiveness than aggression. Eventually, Ash realized her intentions and felt guilty for being harsh, while Serena regretted yelling at him back and believed she compounded the situation by arguing with him during the blizzard. As Serena tried to apologize for her outburst, Ash stopped her to express his genuine remorse for hurting her, and also thanked her for helping him snap out of his depression and regain perspective.
Ash has faith in Serena as he trusts her to keep his Bond Phenomenon power hidden from anyone that isn't their friend. Before going their separate ways, Ash was pleased when Serena said that she was glad that she came with him and that he was going to like the person she grows into the next time they see each other. However, Ash became stunned when Serena leaned forward and kissed him showing the crush she had on Ash, shocking all of their friends. Also, Ash knows his friendship with Serena will remain strong even when they are apart, which was shown when he briefly reunited with her in Hoenn.
Ash and Lana
Ash and Lana share a close friendship since they were classmates at the Pokémon School in Alola. Like his relationships with Dawn, Serena, Bonnie, and all his previous male companions, Ash hardly has any disagreements with Lana, though he can sometimes be annoyed with her jokes at times. During Ash's time in Alola, he and Lana went on adventures together, although they were sometimes joined by Mallow. Ash and Lana would also help each other in various tasks or provide assistance whenever their Pokémon were separated from them. Ash appreciates Lana support in becoming the first Champion of Alola. However, Ash and Lana went their separate ways as he decided to return home to continue his journey while she stayed in Alola to go fishing for Manaphy with her dad. Although, they remained friends until the end, shown when he briefly revisited Alola a couple of times.
Ash and Lillie
Ash and Lillie are best friends as they were classmates at the Pokémon School. During their time in Alola, they were often there to help cheer each other up whenever one of them was feeling down. Like with Max and Bonnie, Ash would go through great lengths to protect Lillie from danger. Ash never gave up on Lillie and helped her with her problems, including getting through her fear of touching Pokémon. Also, Ash helped Lillie and Gladion save their friends and Lusamine from Ultra Space, earning her appreciation even more. In addition, Ash and Lillie share a lot of things in common, including a strong love for Pokémon, excitement about going on adventures, meeting new Pokémon, and a willingness to help others.
Ash and Lillie small in size.
Like what he did for Serena, Ash gave Lillie good advice as he helped her perfect her Z-Moves, although she didn't get what meant at first, and supported her. Like his relationships with Dawn, Serena, Bonnie, Lana, and all his previous male companions, Ash hardly has any disagreements with Lillie, and he would always stand up for her and vice versa. Also, Ash was very happy that Lillie supported him in becoming Champion of Alola. Ash and Lillie parted ways when he decided to continue his own journey while she left to go on a journey to find her long lost father. However, they gave each other thanks for everything they did for one another. Despite being apart, Ash knows his friendship with Lillie will always be with him. Also, during a visit to Alola, Ash was happy that Lillie was doing OK on her journey to find her father and hopes to see her again as she hopes the same for him.
Ash ends up reuniting with Lillie in Galar as he rushed to her defenses while under attack from a Shiny Nihilego. Also, Ash helped Lillie in getting her father to remember his family, after finding out that he lost his memory in the accident that separated her family for a very long time. Ash even accompanied Lillie and her family back to Alola.
Ash and Sophocles
Sophocles is one of Ash's closest friends since they were former classmates at the Pokémon School. They encourage and support each other as they provide assistance to each other whenever they need it. Like his relationship with Dawn, Ash will easily make amends with Sophocles whenever they disagree at times. And like how he acted with Clemont, Ash is impressed with Sophocles's know-how and his inventions. One special gift that Ash gave to Sophocles was a Charjabug initially meant to be a farewell gift.
After becoming Champion of Alola, Ash was very happy that Sophocles supported him till the end. Ash and Sophocles parted ways when he decided to return to Kanto in order to resume his journey and the latter left for Hoenn. However, Ash and Sophocles both know that their friendship will always be there no matter where they are, shown when they briefly reunited when he visited Alola a couple of times and he met up with him in Hoenn.
Ash and Mallow
Ash and Mallow are close friends since they were also classmates at the Pokémon School. Like Brock and Cilan, Ash is impressed with Mallow's cooking. During their time in Alola, Ash and Mallow went on adventures together, sometimes they had Lana accompany them. They are often there to support and assist each other whenever they need it. As with his relationships with Dawn, Serena, Bonnie, Lana, Lillie, and all his previous male companions, Ash hardly has any any arguments with Mallow. Also, Ash greatly appreciates Mallow's support in becoming Champion of Alola. They went their separate ways when Ash decided to continue his journey while Mallow stayed in Alola to make her family restaurant a place for both people and Pokémon. However, they remained friends even though they were apart. During a visit from Alola, Ash was pleased that Mallow wanted to celebrate his visit and in meeting his new friend, Goh. Also, Ash got to see Mallow again during another visit to Alola.
Ash and Professor Kukui
While attending the Pokémon School, Ash resided at Professor Kukui's house. The two have an extremely strong, almost familial bond. In fact, their relationship is almost akin to a father and son, since they spent a lot of time together outside of the Pokémon School and enjoy each other's company. At times, Professor Kukui scolds Ash like a parent whenever he does something wrong (especially when he wonders off on his own), but he does soften a couple of times as he understands that his reasons were to help his or wild Pokémon whenever they were in trouble. They even have a student/mentor relationship with each other that works two ways, since Kukui is his teacher in the school and Ash became a mentor to him when he unexpectedly ended up going back in time to when he was five years old. But it changed after a while in a parent/son relationship. In the Poké Problem segment called A Timeless Encounter , Professor Burnet commented on how Ash and Kukui were like brothers when they ate their food.
Ash, as Ash Royal, and Professor Kukui, as the Masked Royal.
Also, Ash admires Kukui's alter ego, the Masked Royal, and gets fired up when watching his matches on TV with his Pokémon and Professor Burnet since they are also huge fans of his. After battling him twice and being defeated both times, Ash was told by the Masked Royal that his Incineroar and Ash's Incineroar, during his time as a Torracat, were officially rivals. When fighting as the Double Royals, their battling coordination and teamwork were so good that James said, "Those two are so in sync, you'll never know it's their first time." After the grudge match against The Revengers, Ash asked the Masked Royal to have a final battle with him someday, which he accepted. Ash was very happy that Professor Kukui watched him become Champion of Alola. After finding out his identity, Ash was shocked that the Masked Royal and Professor Kukui were the same person at first. However, Ash became excited about it since he didn't care about how long Professor Kukui kept his secret. Ash and Kukui eventually had to part ways when he decided to return to Kanto, but their bond remained intact. Also, like with Professor Oak, Ash trusts Professor Kukui to look after his Pokémon alongside his wife and will always consider him the father that he never had.
Ash and Professor Burnet
Ever since Professor Burnet married Kukui and moved in with Ash, she has acted as a mother figure to the boy. Although, unlike Delia sometimes, Ash doesn't get embarrassed by Professor Burnet as she usually doesn't say anything that would freak him out or make him nervous. They are both huge fans of the Masked Royal, although they were both clueless at first that it was actually Professor Kukui along with Ash's classmates. However, Ash, his classmates, and Professor Burnet eventually found out about the Masked Royal's identity, which ended up just making them admire him even more. Ash even appreciates Professor Burnet support in becoming Champion of Alola. Before going back home to resume his journey, Ash thanked Professor Burnet for everything, knowing they'd always be friends no matter the distance. Also, Ash not only knows his Pokémon are in good hands with Professor Burnet alongside her husband but will also consider her another mother.
Ash and Goh
Ash first met Goh when they jumped on Lugia at the same time. During and after their adventure with the Legendary Pokémon, the two boys found out they had a lot in common and instantly formed a very strong friendship with each other. Ash would help Goh whenever he needed it and he would do the same for him. Like he did for May, Dawn, Serena, and Lillie, Ash acts like a mentor to Goh and helps him in various ways as a Pokémon Trainer. Also, similar to what Brock and Cilan did for him, Ash helps Goh see through his mistakes from time to time, even helping him understand that some of his traits need fixing since Goh shares some of the same traits that Ash once had. Despite all this, much like how he was with Misty, May, Iris, and Kiawe, Ash does frequently clash with Goh at times and vice versa, but they always manage to make up in the end. Also, like with both Misty and Kiawe, Ash can also be competitive with Goh at times.
Sometime later, Goh finds out that Ash is the Pokémon Champion of the Alola region, which not only surprises him but also excitingly asked him as to why he didn't tell him about his Champion status earlier and he humbly answered that he forgot to say something about it. Ash supports Goh and wants him to keep on doing his best. However, Ash almost lost his friendship with Goh but meeting Lugia again and a heart to heart talk with him was able to mend it. Ash and Goh went their separate ways in order to continue their journeys but promise to see each other again one day. They also both promise to support each other, even when they are apart.
Ash and Chloe
When Ash first met Chloe, she was very shy as she often is with new acquaintances. She seemed rather suspicious of Ash and quickly shuffled away without talking to him. This suspicion was probably made stronger because of her father's Yamper electrocuting him. For some time onward, despite Ash's nice and friendly nature, Chloe would often freeze up whenever he spoke to her. However, Ash has been able to get Chloe to trust him more as she has got to know him better and they formed a friendship with each other. Like his relationships with Brock, Tracey, Max, Dawn, Cilan, Clemont, Bonnie, Serena, all of the Alola girls (Lana, Lillie and Mallow), and Sophocles respectively, Chloe hardly has any disagreements with Ash. She even helped Ash patch things up between him and Pikachu, who had become lonely and jealous about the time his partner was spending over training Riolu instead of him. Ash parted ways from Chloe when he decided to continue traveling but supported her when she took his place as her father's research assistant.
When Goh had to miss out of Ash's finals in the Masters Eight Tournament against Leon due to his Project Mew mission, Chloe (accompanied by Dawn) came to cheer for Ash on Goh's behalf. She then congratulated him after he won the battle against Leon and became the new Monarch.
Ash and Lei
Although he heard about him through the professors, Ash officially meets Lei during a visit to Alola while reuniting with Professor Burnet and Professor Kukui. Lei was very excited to meet Ash, seeing him as a big brother figure.
Ash and Gary
Ash and Gary have known each other since they were little, as they grew up together. Ash and Gary had a close friendship, but it ended when they became rivals and started their Pokémon journeys. This was mainly due to the fact that Gary was not only catching more Pokémon than Ash but also did better in battles. Despite their rivalry, Ash and Gary still looked out for each other at times, showing that they were still friends.
Ash and Gary when they were younger.
During their time in Johto, Ash and Gary were able to mend their friendship, as they grew close to one another again. Although Gary moved on to become a researcher like his grandfather and Ash continued his Pokémon journey, they remained friends, although they still have a bit of a friendly rivalry with each other. Ash gets annoyed when Gary teases him from time to time, but it's all good fun.
Ash and Kiawe
Ash is close friends with Kiawe. They were classmates and training partners for Pokémon battles at the Pokémon School in Alola. While they're usually on good terms, Ash and Kiawe also share a friendly rivalry with each other. Unlike his previous male companions, but like his interactions with Misty, Ash shares a competitive dynamic with Kiawe, occasionally leading to arguments, but they resolve these differences quickly. Despite their rivalry and competitiveness, the two boys are always ready to lend a hand to each other. Also, Ash liked that Kiawe had faith in him when he became Champion of Alola. Ash and Kiawe eventually went their separate ways as he decided to go back home to resume his journey while the latter stayed in Alola to resume his Island Challenge. Despite being apart, Ash and Kiawe both knew that they would always be friends, shown when they briefly reunited when he came to visit Alola a couple of times.
Ash and Pikachu
Pikachu is Ash's First partner Pokémon, partner, and best friend, even though there are times that they don't agree with each other. Despite having a rough start at first, they became inseparable. Pikachu has always been on Ash's side during his journey, no matter what the odds and whether good or bad things that had happened. In addition, Ash always allows Pikachu to ride on his head or shoulder during his journey, since he knows that his partner doesn't like to stay inside his Poké Ball. They protect each other from trouble and would stand up for each other. A lot of people see that they're perfect partners.
Ash and Pikachu laying together.
Despite their friendship, Ash does butt heads with Pikachu at times but they don't stay that way for long. Whenever Pikachu fell victim to someone's control, Ash would always help him and give him enough encouragement to break free from it, although he was successful a couple of times but there have been times the control would be too strong for him to break free from but he never gives up on getting through to his best friend no matter how tough the hold was on him. Also, when the other way around occurs, Ash was given the strength to break free from someone's control when he would hear Pikachu's voice calling out to him, which shows how strong their friendship for one another is. Ash even trusts Pikachu greatly as he knows he'll keep both his Aura and Bond Phenomenon abilities a secret.
Sometimes, Ash and Pikachu have shown to agree with each other in Pokemon battles in Gyms, Tournaments or Trials. Also, there have been times when Pikachu was ready to battle and thought that Ash will choose him in battle but he told him no and chooses a different Pokemon instead, which disappoints Pikachu but he agrees and understands of Ash's choice.
Ash and Rotom.
Rotom is not only a companion to Ash who gives information about Pokémon and advice during his time in Alola, but is also his good friend. Whenever it was needed, Ash would go to Rotom for help and it would go to him for the same reason. Also, Ash appreciates Rotom support in becoming Champion of Alola. Ash and Rotom went their separate ways when he decided to continue his journey while the latter stayed in Alola to work for the Aether Foundation. Despite being apart, Ash knows his friendship with Rotom will remain no matter how far they are from each other, shown when he came to visit Alola.
Ash notching that some wild Pokémon needed shelter from the rain.
When he was a little boy, Ash went looking for Pokémon in the forest. However, Ash got lost and he was frightened to the point of tears. When it started to rain, Ash was forced to take shelter under a hollow tree. While under the tree, Ash noticed a group of Pokémon who were also seeking shelter from the rain. Ash invited the Pokémon inside the tree where they kept him safe and warm. This made Ash so happy that he wondered how much he wanted to become a Trainer to travel the entire world with his Pokémon friends. [1]
Later on, Ash shows his mother a poster of Professor Oak's Pokémon summer camp that he wanted to go to and she happily signed him up. However, Ash overslept and missed the summer camp. After that, Ash went home, hoping he would go next time. [2]
Ash helping Serena.
Sometime later, Ash successfully enrolled in another one of Professor Oak's Pokémon Summer Camp where he would learn the basics of Pokémon and being a Trainer when he gets older. While looking for a Poliwag , Ash happened upon a young girl and fellow camper named Serena who got lost in the forest while looking for her group. Seeing that she injured her knee when a Poliwag startled her, Ash wrapped a clean blue handkerchief with a Poké Ball on each corner around her wounded knee to brace it. Ash lent her his hand and helped her up when she couldn't get herself up due to the pain. While doing so, Ash even hugged her then he guided her out of the forest and took her back to the campsite. [3]
At some point before starting their journeys, Ash was friends with Gary Oak , Professor Oak's grandson, as they would go to the movies together when they were younger. [4] Then one day, Ash and Gary both fished out a Poké Ball on both of their fishing lines. After arguing about who keeps it, Ash and Gary both broke the Poké Ball into two pieces where they kept one half of it as a reminder of that day. [5]
Pikachu ↔ Gigantamax Pikachu ♂
Frontier Symbols
Ash's Pokémon League Badge, Orange League trophy, Battle Frontier plaque, Alola League and Exhibition match trophies.
Ash's design is based on the player character from Generation I , Red .
His Japanese name, Satoshi , comes from Satoshi Tajiri , the creator of Pokémon.
His English name, Ash , comes from the middle option of default sample names from the in-game player file configuration screens at the start of the journey (which is the option where Satoshi was listed in the original Japanese game) and his last name, Ketchum , comes from the phrase "Gotta catch 'em all".
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Red is the protagonist of the Generation I games and is a highly skilled Pokémon Trainer from Pallet Town , Kanto . He is the first character to be playable in the Pokémon series and his initial appearance is set in the original main games. He has since then made various appearances in Pokémon media, including the Generation III remakes of Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green ; FireRed and LeafGreen . Red became the official Kanto Pokémon League Champion . Red is also a non-playable character in Generation II and their remakes , Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 , Sun and Moon , and Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , where he often continues the role of a Pokémon Champion.
He can be fought at Mt. Silver ( Gold / Silver , Crystal , HeartGold / SoulSilver ) and in the Pokémon Champion Tournament at Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 .
His Rival and close friend is Blue , and Leaf is his female counterpart.
In his original appearance, Red has spiky black hair and black eyes. He wears a red and white cap with a black and gold leaf patch and a thin white line along the brim, a red short sleeve jacket with white accents, white sleeves, and white patch pockets over a black t-shirt along with cuffed mid-blue jeans with a black belt and white and red sneakers. He also carries a brown backpack with black straps. He is sometimes depicted wearing black fingerless gloves with white cuffs.
Red's appearance changes substantially in the remakes. He now has pale brown hair and brown eyes. He wears a red baseball cap with a white brim and a white semicircle on the front, a red short-sleeved jacket with black sleeves (sometimes depicted as dark blue in-game) and a white collar with a white line going down each side of the zipper, a black t-shirt, light blue jeans, black wristbands, and black, red, and white sneakers. He now carries a yellow backpack with a blue Vs. Seeker.
Red's appearance remained unchanged as he wears the same clothes he wore during FireRed and LeafGreen .
Red's appearance is mostly the same as before, the only difference being his hair becoming a bit longer and returning to black.
Concept artwork of Red and his emotions for
Red in Generation VII is much older, with spiky dark brown hair and brown eyes. He appears in Sun and Moon with a new outfit, which consists of a similar cap to his last one with a more stylized symbol, a white t-shirt with a red collar and sleeves, plus a stylized red "96" graphic, light blue jeans, a black wristband on his left arm, and red and white athletic shoes. He also carries a new yellow backpack with only one strap.
Concept artwork of Red and his emotions for Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!
Red's outfit is very similar to the original games, with a few differences. His clothing becomes slimmer-fitting, his jacket is now a vest and the sleeves of his shirt are white. His pants are a lighter blue and the design of his shoes is slightly different.
Red, compared to other protagonists, is a very serious person, especially when he battles. This can be seen easily because he seldomly smiles. He is very quiet, usually only ever using ellipses ". . ." in the games or exclaiming grunts in spin-offs. He is shown to be both loyal to his Pokémon and his cause, and seen by the fact that he always has the three potential first partner Pokémon with him, indicating whichever Pokémon he chose first has remained with him, and when he fought in the World of Light Trailer ( Super Smash Bros. Ultimate ) where he and his Pokémon were among the few to fight back against Galeem.
In Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Red is a curious 11-year old boy from Pallet Town . He was also once friends with Blue , the grandson of Pallet Town's local Pokémon expert, Professor Oak but as revealed via the instruction manuals, Red gained an interest in Pokémon once Blue stopped playing with him, instead choosing to begin bullying him instead. However, this contradicts Professor Oak's claim in the games that the two have in fact been rivals since they were both infants.
One day, as Red prepares to leave his home to begin his Pokémon journey, he is stopped from leaving the town by Oak who tells him he needs a Pokémon for his own protection. Upon being brought to the lab where Blue is, Oak gives the two a choice between the three Kanto starters: Bulbasaur , Charmander and Squirtle .
Depending on the first partner Pokémon Red picks, Blue will soon choose his own first partner Pokémon but one that has a type advantage over Red's starter Pokémon.
After both have chosen their respective Pokémon, they will battle one another with Blue wanting to challenge Red as he believes his starter Pokémon can beat Red's Pokémon.
Once that has ended, Red makes his way to Route 1 (Kanto) , eventually reaching Viridian City where he arrives at the Poke Mart to receive a Parcel that he then brings back to Oak in Pallet Town.
With Blue arriving seconds later, Oak tells the two trainers about a dream of his when he was young which was to use his Pokémon to create a full guide on the Pokémon in the Kanto region but due to his old age, Oak can no longer accomplish his goal, something he wants both Red and Blue to do for him instead.
Upon obtaining a Town Map from Daisy Oak , Professor Oak's granddaughter and Blue's older sister, Red leaves Pallet Town and begins traveling all over the Kanto region, capturing and training various Pokémon. To become strong enough to complete the Pokédex, he also starts gathering the eight Gym Badges by defeating the Gym Leaders and regularly meets Blue who usually challenges him to a battle, Blue being one step ahead of Red and showing up to stall Red's progress.
During his journey, Red learns of a group of Pokémon thieves called Team Rocket . He first meets them when they're searching for and attempting to steal fossils inside Mt. Moon .
Upon arriving in Cerulean City , Red heads north to the Nugget Bridge on Route 24 and defeats the Trainers with the last one being a Team Rocket Grunt who was hoping to recruit new members for the organization. He soon meets another Grunt hiding in the grounds of a house, having stolen the TM, Dig from a man who resides in Cerulean with his wife.
Red soon discovers Team Rocket are plotting something and manages to gain access to their underground base which is hidden beneath Celadon City 's Game Corner or Rocket Corner. His journey through the hideout brings him face-to-face with Giovanni, the boss and leader of Team Rocket whom Red defeats in battle, forcing Team Rocket to abandon their hideout in Celadon.
Using the Silph Scope he'd obtained from Giovanni, Red heads into the Pokémon Tower in Lavender Town and learns Mr. Fuji , the elderly caretaker is being held hostage by some Grunts.
By defeating them, Red frees Mr. Fuji and causes the Rockets to flee from the Tower while also ensuring the ghost of the Marowak who Team Rocket also murdered, leaving her baby Cubone an orphan can finally head to the afterlife, her spirit having been calmed at last.
Red heads into Saffron City and learns that Team Rocket has not only taken control of the city, presumably preventing the citizens from leaving their homes but also the Silph Company or Silph Co. with the group also planning on using the Master Ball, a Poke Ball that can catch any Pokémon without fail. He meets Giovanni in the Silph President's office and defeats him again, causing Giovanni to flee and end Team Rocket's control of Saffron, resulting in Saffron returning to normal.
Having gotten seven Badges, Red heads to the Viridian City Gym to get his final badge where he discovers Giovanni is the Gym Leader he must defeat in order to get to the Elite Four in the Indigo Plateau . Red eventually prevails, earning the Earth Badge while Giovanni disbands Team Rocket, promising to go into solo training to become a better Trainer.
After making it through the Victory Road (Kanto) and the Indigo Plateau, Red then challenges Kanto's Elite Four, the last line of defense for facing a Pokémon Champion . He defeats the Ice trainer Lorelei , the Fighting trainer Bruno , the Ghost Trainer Agatha and the Dragon Trainer Lance before he challenges the Champion who he soon discovers is none other than his rival, Blue who defeated the Elite Four before Red ever set foot in the Indigo Plateau, making Blue the Champion of Kanto. However, Blue's reign as Pokémon Champion is ultimately short-lived, as Red soon defeats him in battle, becoming the new Kanto Champion.
After that, Red opts to continue on with his training rather than stay at the Indigo Plateau. He can also enter the Cerulean Cave to capture the extremely powerful Legendary Pokémon Mewtwo if he chooses.
In Pokémon Yellow , his story is very similar from Red and Blue , except that now Red receives a Pikachu as his starter in reference to Ash Ketchum from the anime , the Pikachu being the same one Professor Oak caught when Red attempted to leave Pallet Town while Blue, his rival gets an Eevee that was originally intended for Red himself.
In Gold and Silver and Crystal , after becoming the Kanto Champion upon defeating his rival, Blue, Red became a wandering Trainer with his journey eventually taking him to Mt. Silver , a mountain located between Kanto and Johto where he spends his days and nights training his Pokémon team alone. He presumably remains there for three years and is also revealed to have become so distant from his mom that he does not talk to her via phone anymore.
When the player character ( Ethan or Kris ) gets the opportunity to go to Kanto after defeating the Elite Four and Champion Lance, they can visit Red's house in Pallet Town with his mom greeting them and then telling them Red has been away for a long time and that he hasn't called so she doesn't know where he is or what he's doing. She also naturally reveals she worries about him, even though people say that no word is proof that he is doing fine. Talking to her again has her commenting that she worries about Red getting hurt or sick, but he's a courageous boy and she also voices her pride at the fact he's doing what he wants to do.
Upon gaining access to Mt. Silver and after collecting all 16 Gym Badges from both the Johto and Kanto regions, the player character can make their way through the mountain and ultimately challenge Red to a final battle, with Red himself disappearing whenever he's defeated.
Red's Pokémon are like the Pokémon that Ash Ketchum had when he was in the Orange Islands league.
Red's Pokémon all leveled up by 7 levels when comparing the original Generation II games to Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version (except Espeon , although Lapras is seven levels higher).
In FireRed and LeafGreen , he reappears as the protagonist (although this is a remake from Red and Blue ).
In this saga, he has a female counterpart named Leaf .
His story progresses the same as in the original games, but after becoming Champion, Red travels to the Sevii Islands where he helps Bill 's friend, Celio connect his Pokémon Network to the Hoenn region. During his time in the islands, Red discovers a small group of Team Rocket Grunts led by Executive Archer who are operating in a warehouse on Five Island . Red sneaks into the warehouse and defeats the Grunts before meeting Archer who accuses him of trying to sown distrust amongst the Grunts. Upon Red defeating him, Archer learns that Red possesses the Earth Badge which is proof Giovanni has officially disbanded Team Rocket.
Even though the group are defeated, presumably fleeing the Sevii Islands, they announce their intention to revive Team Rocket once more and bring Giovanni back from his solo training.
After that, Red continues on his journey and eventually becomes a wandering Trainer, disappearing from the public eye.
He soon makes his way towards Mt. Silver, a mountain bordering Kanto and Johto and presumably spends three years residing there, training his Pokémon day and night while also becoming so distant from his Mom that he doesn't even talk to her via the phone anymore.
His disappearance results in Lance replacing him as the new Pokémon Champion.
Like in Gold and Silver , in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver , once the player has earned all sixteen badges, they can battle Red on the top of Mt. Silver with the same set of Pokémon from the original titles.
Every time he is defeated, he disappears, but comes back once the Elite Four and Champion have been defeated.
In Black 2 and White 2 , Red finally returns to public life when he participates in the Pokémon World Tournament , battling against the player character with three Pokémon.
In Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon , Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moo n , Red who is now visibly older and wearing a new set of clothes travels to Alola along with Blue, the two former Champions having been invited to work as bosses of Alola's Battle Tree.
When the player character first visits the Battle Tree, they will encounter Red and Blue and will battle one of them. After Red or Blue has been properly defeated, Red will reward the player by giving them a full set of Kanto starter Mega stones, allowing the player to Mega Evolve the Kanto starters in their party.
Red can be battled at the top of the Indigo Plateau, near the entrance after defeating at least 6 Master Trainers with the player character also having six Pokémon in their party.
Similarly to HeartGold and SoulSilver , Red will rematch the player when he/she beats the Elite Four.
Unlike the original games, Red, like Blue, completed their journeys and even defeated the Elite Four years before the player character began their journey. He can be challenged to a battle and like all the Master Trainer battles in Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , the player character must defeat Red without using any Items from their bag.
Upon being defeated, Red grants the player the title of Battle Master before leaving. Like the other games, he will reappear for a rematch every time the player character has successfully beaten the Elite Four.
Red makes an appearance in Super Smash Bros. Brawl as the Pokémon Trainer, he is accompanied by Squirtle, Ivysaur, and Charizard and is a newcomer. He only talks when switching Pokémon and when he wins. He does not fight but instead is shown in the background commanding his Pokémon (using special-down will switch them during battle). In story mode he follows the character if he is being used until they get to a point where he is unable to continue, however he will be warped in front of the character at certain times. Each Pokémon he uses is different in weight and evolution. Squirtle is a light weight and is not evolved at all, Ivysaur is an averaged out middle weight and a has evolved once. Charizard is a heavy weight and is fully evolved.
Red is first introduced when Lucas bumps into him and both are surrounded by Primids. Red uses Squirtle (the only Pokémon available at the start of Red's appearance) to defeat them and continues to go search for more Pokémon (in which Lucas goes with him). They then go to the ruins to find Charizard and Ivysaur, but before they continue, they then are attacked by Wario, which they win. During the story, Red finds Ivysaur as a trophy (likely due to a lost battle with Charizard) and captures it with a Poke Ball , and battles Charizard and captures it as well. He and Lucas then reach the end if the ruins and battle Galeom who fell though the top. After winning, Galeom is revealed to be a Subspace Bomb and grabs Lucas and Red (the latter being knocked out). However Lucas frees them and they are saved by Meta Knight. They then go with Marth, Meta Knight and Ike. They then go to a mountain where a battle is taking place, which ends with an army from Subspace coming to attack. They manage to defeat them (with help from Mario, Link, Kirby, Pit, Yoshi and Ice Climbers). They then meet up with the heroes that were in the Halberd and the Bomb Factory. He (along with the others) go to subspace to defeat Master Hand. However he is defeated with the others by Tabuu. If he is found by King Dedede, Luigi and Ness he will go to fight Tabuu.
Although Squirtle and Ivysaur are cut from the game, leaving only his Charizard to be solely playable, Red is demoted to assist trophy instead.
Red and his three main starter Pokémon finally returns to be playable once again, with his female counterpart, Leaf , as a color swap.
All six are used in Triple Battles , but only three random ones are used in Single Battles as well as four in both Double as well as Rotation Battles .
Red battled by the player in Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version
Ash Ketchum, Red's anime series counterpart
Yo! Finally got here, huh? I wasn't in the mood at Cinnabar, but now I'm ready to battle you. … You're telling me you conquered all the Gyms Leaders in Johto? Heh! Johto's Gyms must be pretty pathetic then. Hey, don't worry about it. I'll know if you are good or not by battling you right now. Ready, Johto Champ?
Blue Oak ( オーキド・グリーン , Ōkido Gurīn ? , lit. lit. "Green Ohkido" ) , more commonly known as Blue , is the player's Rival and eventual Pokémon Champion in the Generation I games. He then becomes a Gym Leader for Viridian City since Generation II after losing his League title to Red , replacing Giovanni . Blue himself is unique as a Gym Leader, because he has no set type for his Gym , and instead uses a variety of Pokémon in a similar manner to the other Champions. As with Giovanni, he gives the Earth Badge to Trainers who are able to defeat him. He is known as Green in Japan. Blue is also the grandson of Professor Oak .
Blue is a tall, thin young man with light skin, brown eyes, and big tall, brown spiky hair pointing the other direction.
He wears a long purple shirt, dark gray pants, a yin and yang necklace, and brown boots with black straps encircling them.
Blue's appearance remains the same as it is in Red/Blue .
His appearance changes slightly; the colors of his shirt and pants are switched, so he wears a short-sleeved dark gray polo shirt with the collar flipped up and purple cargo pants and black shoes. He also carries a light blue pack around his waist, and has purple bands around his wrists.
Blue is slightly older, taller and more mature-looking. He wears a black leather jacket over a white shirt, a black belt around his waist, khaki cargo pants, and black shoes.
Blue wears a new outfit, which consists of a black short-sleeved shirt with buttons, green pants and shoes. He also wears a pair of sunglasses and carries a gray backpack.
Concept art of Blue for Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu/Eevee!
Blue wears an outfit resembling his original Red / Blue clothing, he wears a chambray colored shirt, fuscous grey jeans, judge grey boots with 2 black straps and black soles each. His necklace is changed to have a small gray oval on it instead of being a yin and yang necklace. He also has wood colored hair, and sand brown eyes.
In the original Generation I games and Generation III remakes, Blue is a self-absorbed, rude, snarky and overly competitive rival to the player character . He will often insult the player, and is not a good sport when the player defeats him in a battle. With each defeat, he insists that the player was lesser and weaker than he was, denies the fact that he is not as skilled, and bids farewell in a disrespectful manner, often saying " Smell ya later! " as he walks away. In spite of this, he apparently does consider the player his friend, frequently calling them “pal”.
However, in Pokémon HeartGold and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , the Generation IV remakes of Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Blue is a more mature and much kinder person, and is shown to gracefully accept defeat when the player challenges and beats him at the Viridian Gym . He is also shown to be passionate and respectful in Generation V , and likes to battle a challenger, no matter who they are.
In the Japanese Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green , and the international Pokémon Red and Blue , the player first meets him in Professor Oak's Lab , where he gives both a First partner Pokémon .
Despite the player first meeting Blue at the games' beginning, the characters have evidently known each other for a long time, as stated by Professor Oak . As with every game, whichever Pokémon the player chooses, the rival (Blue) will choose the type that is effective against it (except in Generation VII ; e.g. player chooses Bulbasaur ( Grass ), rival will then choose Charmander ( Fire ).
Later, after receiving the Pokédex , Blue will set out to find every Pokémon and be one step ahead of the player. As the player progresses through the game, he/she will encounter their rival in several locations and have to battle them every time.
Toward the end, after receiving all eight Gym Badges and defeating all of the Elite Four , it is revealed that Blue has already defeated the Elite Four and has become the Pokémon Champion . Challenging him, the player will battle Blue for the title, and when defeated, Professor Oak will come in and induct the player into the Hall of Fame after chastising Blue for not having cared for his Pokémon.
Blue's appearance in the original games changes twice from the original appearance, throughout the game. The second appearance is similar to the first, with the addition of a backpack and a Poké Ball . The third (Champion appearance), looks almost completely different, with an all new attire, and different hair.
In Pokémon Yellow , he is identical to that of the initial Red and Blue version. In this game however, his appearance is more similar to Gary 's appearance from Pokémon the Series . Also, instead of choosing the opposite Pokémon based on type advantage, Blue chooses Eevee as his Starter Pokémon, while the player must take Pikachu . Blue shoves the player out of the way and claims Eevee before the player can obtain it. Prof. Oak had intended to give the player this Eevee, but the newly-captured Pikachu becomes fated to be with the protagonist (therefore Blue was technically stealing the Eevee). The first two battles with Blue are the deciding factor for what his Eevee will evolve into. It is decided on whether the player wins or loses the battles in Professor Oak's lab and on Route 22 , or simply skips the latter area. If the player loses the first Battle with Blue, Eevee will evolve into Vaporeon . If the player wins the first battle and then skips the optional one, it will evolve into Flareon . And if the player defeats Blue both times, it will evolve into Jolteon .
In all Generation I games, Blue's appearance also alters twice after a while, though his Champion appearance in the Red and Blue games is a little more dramatic than in Yellow . The battle sprite is simply in new poses each time. He is still the Champion until you defeat him in the final battle.
In Generation II , he is far less involved when compare to the previous, as Silver is that games' Rival instead. After the disappearance of Giovanni , the former Head of Team Rocket and Viridian Gym Leader, Blue takes over the Gym . Unfortunately for Trainers and much like Giovanni himself, he is never usually at the Gym, making it difficult to battle there. Unlike any other known Gym Leaders , Blue uses a variety of types in his Pokémon team.
In Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , his role is exactly the same as in the original Red and Blue versions. The only slight difference however is that his appearance does not change throughout the games.
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , much like in the original namesake Gold and Silver games, he is far less involved compared to FireRed and LeafGreen and Blue becomes the leader of the Viridian Gym. He still uses a variety of Pokémon. In these games, he is supposedly the strongest in Kanto as opposed to Red .
In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 , his role is very minor. He appears in the Pokémon World Tournament as Kanto's Champion and where he is matched up against the player to battle in the Champions Tournament.
Although not making an appearance in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y , he is mentioned by a lady in Lumiose City 's Pokémon Center that he had studied in Kalos before.
In Pokémon Sun and Moon , when the player arrives at the Battle Tree for the first time, they can choose either Blue or Red to be their opponent for a match. He will be impressed by their abilities after he loses the match. They can later challenge him at the Battle Tree. Most people in the Pokémon community oddly believe this to be Red and Blue's honeymoon, but this has never been explicitly stated by Nintendo , Game Freak , or The Pokémon Company .
In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu/Eevee! , Blue is not the player's rival unlike in Pokémon Yellow , as Trace takes his role. He appears various times in the game, but the player's first encounter with him is after defeating Brock . The player encounters Blue again in Silph Co. in which he will be battled. He is in Professor Oak's lab to give you the ability to Mega Evolve . He can be battled on Viridian City Gym after defeating the Champion (Trace) the first time, once per day.
I'm Brock, Pewter City's Gym Leader. You can see just by looking at my Pokémon how rock hard my willpower is. My Pokémon are all hard as rock and have true-grit determination! That's right! My Pokémon are all Rock types! Fwahaha! You're going to challenge me even knowing that you'll lose? That's what a Trainer's honor demands! So be it! Show me your best!
Brock serves as the Gym Leader at the Pewter City Gym . He holds the Boulder Badge for the trainers who defeat him in a Pokémon battle. Brock specializes in and only uses Rock -type Pokémon in the core series .
Brock is a teenager with brown spiky hair and his eyes naturally appear closed. In Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , he is shirtless and wears a pair of blue jeans and black shoes. In Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , Brock wears a green vest with a black T-shirt with white short sleeves, brown jeans, and green sneakers (as shown in the corresponding artwork). In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , he wears a long-sleeved orange shirt with black lining over a black v-neck shirt and green pants.
Brock, in personality, is quite determined, evident from his nickname “The Rock Solid Pokémon Trainer!" He strongly believes in willpower and determination, and boasts about this fact consistently. He is arrogant and prone to underestimating opponents, especially when it comes to the defenses of his Pokémon, but he still seeks and enjoys a good battle. He is much more respectful to his opponents after the confrontation, and he is able to admit to his faults, specifically the underestimation of his opponent.
Brock finds comfort in areas surrounded by rock and visits Diglett's Cave . This preference expands to Pokémon as well. He believes rock type Pokémon can be cute, but he also sees them as the embodiment of determination due to their rock-hard exteriors.
Brock shares his desire to be a Pokémon Breeder with his anime counterpart, and he shares the same love for Pokémon in both mediums. It is also implied that he has his flirtatious side in the games too, when he questions why the girls at the Celadon City Gym all ‘turned him away.’
Brock is serious about being a strong trainer. This is to the point where he delays his dreams of becoming a Pokémon Breeder in order to grow stronger, wishing to be strong enough to defeat the Player .
Overall, Brock is a prideful, and determined Trainer with a love for battle and Pokémon, especially of the Rock type.
The name Brock originates from the word "rock".
His Japanese name, Takeshi, originates from 岳 (take, mountain peak) and 石 (ishi, stone). With the plant-themed naming of most Gym Leaders, it may also include 竹 (take, bamboo).
In Pokémon Red Version , Pokémon Green Version , and Pokémon Blue Version , Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , and their respective remakes, Brock is the first Gym Leader whom the player battles. Brock is fought within his Gym in Pewter City . The player cannot access Route 3 until after they have defeated Brock, and if they attempt to beforehand, a non-playable character directs them to the Pewter City Gym.
After the player defeats both Brock's Geodude and Onix , they receive the Boulder Badge as well as their very first TM from Brock, who explains the functionality of the item. In the original Generation I games only, Brock gives out TM034 , which contains the Normal -type move Bide . In the remakes Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Brock gives out TM039 instead, which contains the Rock -type move Rock Tomb , matching the type that he specializes in. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , he gives out TM001 ( Headbutt ).
Brock's appearance in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition bases him more upon his anime counterpart , with him stating his aspirations to become a Pokémon Breeder .
In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , Brock can be rematched later, like with each of the other Gym Leaders.
In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Pokémon Crystal Version , and the remakes Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Brock is fought again, this time with much stronger Pokémon , since the player does not battle each of the Kantonian Gym Leaders until later in their adventure. Like the other Gym Leaders, Brock does not reward a TM in the original Generation II games, but in Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , he does give TM080 , which contains the move Rock Slide .
In Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 , Brock participates in the Pokémon World Tournament , particularly the Kanto Leaders Tournament and the World Leaders Tournament , like the other Gym Leaders of Kanto. Brock can also be fought in the Rock Type Expert Tournament , as with other Rock -type experts, and he uses the same party here as in the World Leaders Tournament.
Pewter City Pokémon Gym Leader: Brock The Rock-Solid Pokémon Trainer!
My rock-hard willpower is evident in even my Pokémon. My Pokémon are all rock hard and have true-grit determination. That's right - my Pokémon are all the Rock type!
There aren't many serious Pokémon trainers here. They’re all like Bug Catchers, you know, just hobbyists. But Pewter Gym's Brock isn’t like that, not one bit.
Brock is cool. He's not just tough. People like and respect him. I want to become a Gym Leader like him.
Hi. I'm excavating for fossils here under Mt. Moon. Sometimes, Brock of Pewter Gym lends me a hand.
Brock rarely laughs, but is said to be unable to stop if he starts.
In this big world of ours, there must be many tough trainers. Let's both keep training and making ourselves stronger!
(Participating Pokémon picked randomly from the list, with Onix certain to be first.)
Hi! You're a new face! What's your policy on Pokémon? What's your approach? My policy for battle is... an all-out offensive with Water-type Pokémon! Misty, the world-famous beauty, is your host! My sweet Pokémon are ready! Are you?
Misty is a character making her debut in Generation I . Misty is the Gym Leader of the Cerulean City Gym and specializes in Water -type Pokémon , and therefore the second in Kanto . She gives the Cascade Badge to trainers that defeat her. Misty also goes by the title The Tomboyish Mermaid .
Misty is a slender girl with spiky scarlet hair and the muscular build of a professional swimmer. Unlike most other characters, her appearance has a tendency to fluctuate; she appears significantly older in later games than in earlier ones, specifically in Generations II and IV .
Misty has orange hair and light skin. She wears a strapless two-piece blue swimsuit (with the bottoms being shorts) that leaves her arms, legs, midriffs, and belly button bare. A pair of sandals completes the outfit.
Similarly to Brock in-game, Misty's appearance is redesigned to closely appear how she looks in the anime , wearing a shirt, shoes, and having a different battle pose holding a Poké Ball .
Misty appears to be older and taller. Her hair is styled into short differently, slightly resembling a Gardevoir 's. Clothing-wise, she wears a blue and white one-piece swimsuit and a white jacket, leaving only her legs bare. She also wears a pair of white sandals on her feet.
Like in Yellow , Misty resembles her anime counterpart . She has orange hair held in a spiky ponytail and is garbed in a new outfit that is similar to what her anime version wears. She wears a white and blue sleeveless shirt, blue denim shorts, and red, blue, and white sneakers. Underneath her clothes, she wears a red bikini top with a blue gem in the middle and matching red bikini bottoms that resemble boyshorts. Like her Red and Blu e outfit, her midriffs and belly button are shown.
Personality-wise, as her title suggests, Misty is said to be a tomboy. She is competitive and brave, and also says things that are either on her mind or what she first thinks of. However, she is also compassionate and will help others in need.
The name Misty originates from the word "mist".
Her Japanese name, Kasumi, is literally 霞 (kasumi, mist). However, it may also include 海 (umi, ocean), 水 (mizu, water) and 泉 (izumi, fountain).
Misty is the second Gym Leader of the Kanto region and she is encountered at Cerulean City 's Gym . Her Gym Badge is the Cascade Badge , and the TM she gives to the player character when defeated contains Bubble Beam ( TM11 ). However, in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , it is instead Water Pulse , or Scald in Pokémon Let's Go Pikachu/Eevee! . Her team is known to use these moves. Misty's Gym is essentially a large swimming pool where one of her two Gym Trainers is in the water. Her strategy is an all-out attack with Water -type Pokémon , and she is constantly looking for ways to improve her technique. Being a swimmer herself and known for her "Tomboyish Mermaid" title, Misty trains at the Seafoam Islands . It is said that she has high hopes for Cerulean Cape , a romantic date spot. She also expresses a desire to travel one day once she has become stronger. Misty admires Lorelei , one of the Kanto members of the Elite Four .
Three years later, in the Generation II games and their remakes, Misty remains the Gym Leader of the Cerulean Gym, which can be challenged once the Team Rocket Grunt who stole the Machine Part from the Kanto Power Plant is encountered at the Gym. At first, Misty herself is not present in the Gym and is completely empty. Instead, she can be seen at Cerulean Cape on a date with her boyfriend. When the player character arrives, the boyfriend is scared away, prompting her to grow angry with them and refer to the player as a pest. Upon noticing their eight Johto Badges, however, she accepts the player's challenge and returns back to the Gym. While she does not give out a TM in Pokémon Gold, Silver , and Crystal , Misty gives out Water Pulse in HeartGold and SoulSilver .
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , once all 16 Badges have been obtained and Suicune has been captured or defeated, Misty can be found on Route 25 on any day between 4 PM and 6 PM. If spoken to, she will offer her Pokégear number to the player. If she is called on Wednesday mornings, she will be up for a rematch at the Fighting Dojo in Saffron City . After her number has been obtained, she will also appear on Route 25 every day between 2 PM and 4 PM. Upon speaking to her, the player can have a photograph taken with Misty if the first Pokémon in their party is a Water-type. Her team in the remakes is notably stronger than in the original games, reaching as high as level 60.
In Pokémon Black Version 2 andPokémon White Version 2 , Misty appears alongside the other Gym Leaders of Kanto as an opponent in the Kanto Leaders Tournament at the Pokémon World Tournament . She also participates alongside the Gym Leaders of Kanto, Johto, Hoenn , Sinnoh , and Unova in the World Leaders Tournament, and other Water-type experts in the Water Type Expert Tournament.
In Pokémon Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon Let's Go, Eevee! , Misty appears in Vermilion City after the player has defeated Lt. Surge , offering to show them the way to the Diglett's Cave entrance on Route 11 . She also reveals that she sometimes visits Vermilion to swim in the sea.
In the Pokémon Stadium games, Misty appears as one of the Kanto Gym Leaders of Gym Leader Castle .
Misty also appears on Pokémon Channel on a full Japanese Pichu Bros. Disk of " Pichu Bros. in Party Panic! ". It differs from the standard Japanese Disk as her anime counterpart 's (Kasumi) voice actress is the narrator. This, however, was met with confusion among fans of the international releases, as they claim the developers should've used the character's English dub voice actress instead.
Cerulean City Pokémon Gym Leader: Misty The Tomboyish Mermaid!
My policy is an all-out offensive with Water-type Pokémon!
Misty is a Trainer who’s going to keep improving. She won't lose to someone like you!
Strong Trainers and Water Pokémon are common sights in these parts. They say that Misty of the Cerulean Gym trains here.
This cape is a famous date spot. Misty, the Gym Leader, has high hopes about this place.
Misty is said to worship Lorelei of the Elite Four.
I’m going to keep training here at this Gym. When I get better, I’d love to hit the road and travel.
Misty in her special Arc Suit in Pokémon Masters EX
Hey, kid! What do you think you're doing here? You won't live long in combat! That's for sure! I tell you kid, electric Pokémon saved me during the war! They zapped my enemies into paralysis! The same as I'll do to you!
Lt. Surge serves as the Gym Leader at Vermilion City 's Gym . He holds the Thunder Badge for the trainers that can defeat him, and specializes in Electric -type Pokémon .
Lt. Surge resembles an adult with spiked blond hair, blue eyes, and light skin.
In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Lt. Surge wears a sleeveless green shirt and camouflage pants. He keeps his black boots, and also now wears a dog tag.
Lt. Surge's build is that of a large, muscular man, having tall stature and a very muscular body.
Lt. Surge is serious and always flared up. He appreciates challengers who are persistent. Lt. Surge is also paranoid, since he has set up a lot of traps in his gym.
The name Lt. Surge originates from "lieutenant" (shortened to form Lt.) and "surge" (referring to surging electricity). It may also be a play on "sarge", a shortened informal term for the title "sergeant".
His Japanese name, Machisu, may originate from "machine" or "march" (as he was military personnel). It may also involve "Clematis", a genus of flowers, following the plant-based naming of most Gym Leaders.
Lt. Surge is a war veteran originating from a region far away from Kanto (originally the United States of America in earlier versions, but later implied to be an unspecified equivalent). Little is known about Lt. Surge's tenure as a war veteran. In the Generation I games and their remakes, Gentleman Tucker in the Vermilion City Gym says that Lt. Surge was his commanding officer in the army during an unspecified war, where his life was saved by Electric -type Pokémon. There is also a rumor that Lt. Surge was a pilot, while in America, who used Electric -type Pokémon to power his plane. Prior to Generation VII , Lt. Surge was referred to as the "Lightning American," something that was likely changed to avoid raising questions about the world of Pokémon 's relationship to the real world. Someone in the lobby of the Pokémon World Tournament mentions that Lt. Surge might be from Unova .
Lt. Surge first appears in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version and Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition . In these games, Lt. Surge is the third Gym Leader. The player can challenge Lt. Surge in the gym of Vermillion City, but only once one of the player 's Pokémon has learned Cut , allowing them to cut down a tree blocking the path to the gym. In Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Lt. Surge uses a Voltorb , a Pikachu , and a Raichu . In Pokémon Yellow , he uses only a Raichu, consistent with his appearance in the Pokémon anime, and is the only Gym Leader is the game to use only one Pokémon. When the player wins, Lt. Surge gives them not only the Thunder Badge, but also TM024 ( Thunderbolt ). In the Generation III remakes, Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Lt. Surge uses the same set of Pokémon as in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , but the TM that he gives out is different: TM034 ( Shock Wave ).
In the Generation II games, Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version and Pokémon Crystal Version , Lt. Surge is the first Gym Leader of the Kanto region whom the player can challenge. When the player wins against Lt. Surge in a Pokémon battle , they receive the Thunder Badge, as usual, but no longer any TM.
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Lt. Surge's Pokémon are slightly higher leveled than in the original Generation II games. Like in Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Lt. Surge also gives out the TM034 (Shock Wave) when the player wins against him. Like the other Gym Leaders, Lt. Surge can be fought against in another battle; in Lt. Surge's case, this can be done by first going to the Power Plant after Zapdos is captured or defeated, but only between 9:00 AM and 11:00 AM, so that Lt. Surge shows up there. Furthermore, the player also needs to have a Pikachu walking outside with them so that Lt. Surge can give them his PokéGear number, then on Friday morning , the player can call Lt. Surge to rematch him at the Fighting Dojo .
-Vermilion City - sign
"Vermilion City Pokémon Gym
Leader: Lt. Surge
The Lightning American!"
Vermilion Gym - Lt. Surge
"I tell you, kid, electric Pokémon saved me during the war!"
Vermilion Gym - Gentleman Tucker
"When I was in the Army, Lt. Surge was my strict CO.
He was a hard taskmaster."
"Lt. Surge was always famous for his cautious nature in the Army."
Vermilion Gym - Sailor Dwayne
"Lt. Surge installed the traps in the Gym himself.
He set up double locks everywhere."
Vermilion City - Pokémon Journal
"Lt. Surge is rumored to have been a pilot while home in America.
He used the electricity generated by Pokémon to power his plane."
Message from Lt. Surge
From: Lt. Surge
To: [Player]
You electrified me in our battle!
I didn’t know that there were gutsy trainers like you.
It made me change my mind about you!"
Welcome. My name is Erika. I am the Gym Leader of the Celadon City Gym. I am a student of the art of flower arranging. My Pokémon are all of the Grass type. ...Oh, I'm sorry. Did you perhaps wish to challenge me? Very well... but I shall not lose.
Erika is a character that was introduced in Generation I . She serves as the Gym Leader of the Celadon City Gym . Erika specializes in using Grass - type Pokémon , and awards the Rainbow Badge to Trainers that manage to defeat her.
Erika is a slender young woman with pale skin and short black hair with cut bangs. Unlike most Gym Leaders, her eye color changes depending on the game she appears in.
Clothing-wise, Erika wears an extremely modest and conservative outfit; in fact, her outfit is among the most conservative of all the female Gym Leaders, with almost her entire body (save for her ankles, neck, face, and hands) being hidden beneath her clothes. The outfit consists of an elegant kimono with an obi (sash), a hairband, Japanese sandals called zōri, and traditional Japanese socks called tabi. However, like with every character that appears in multiple games, what Erika's outfit exactly looks like changes, though the crux of it is the same.
Additionally, while Erika changes her clothes and has been shown wearing casual outfits in the anime, she can never be seen wearing anything else other than her normal outfit in the games.
Erika, like her style suggests, displays a modest, elegant, and somewhat shy attitude towards the player. Erika is a good sport and graceful loser, she shows no ill-will about being defeated and cares deeply towards her Pokémon. She also has a habit of falling asleep in her Gym, but this is most likely because of being around Grass-type Pokémon.
In Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, however, Erika appears to have a habit of spreading damaging gossip about the other Gym Leaders, especially Clair .
The name Erika originates from "Erica", a genus of flowers, following her usage of Grass -type Pokémon and the common naming theme involving plants among most Gym Leaders.
Erika's Gym is filled with grass, flowers and other plants. Additionally, everyone in the Gym is female. The player must use Cut in order to reach Erika in the Gym's center.
Upon defeating her in the Generation I games, Erika rewards the player with the Rainbow Badge , along with TM21 ( Mega Drain ).
Her role in Yellow is the same as it is in Red, Green and Blue .
Her role in Crystal is the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
Her role in FireRed and LeafGreen is the same as it is in Red, Green, Blue and Yellow .
Her role in HeartGold and SoulSilver is the same as it is in Gold and Silver and Crystal .
Fwahahaha! A mere child like you dares to challenge me? That very idea makes me shiver with mirth! Very well, I shall show you true terror as a ninja master! Opponents can't lay a hand on me, as poison brings their steady doom. Despair as you feel the creeping horror of Poison-type Pokémon!
Koga served as the Gym Leader at the Fuchsia City Gym . Two years later, during the Generation II games, Koga also became a member of the Elite Four and his daughter, Janine took over his gym and used Poison -type Pokémon as well.
He specializes in Poison-type Pokémon, and as a Gym Leader gave out the Soul Badge for Trainers that could defeat him.
Koga is a man with black spiky hair and eyes. He usually wears dark ninja outfits, along with a red scarf.
Koga's appearance is as described previously, additionaly, he also has bands on his arms.
Koga's appearance remains the same as it is in Red, Green and Blue .
Koga's appearance in Gold and Silver, Remains almost the same in those games, however, the colors on the ninja outfit seem to vary less, being mostly black to dark purple.
Koga's appearance remains the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
Koga's appearance in those games remains almost the same, but his hair seems to be dark blue rather than black, and the outlines in his outfit as well as the scarf has now an orange colour.
Koga's outfit has purple outlines. He also wears protective grey bracers on his legs, as well as bands on his wrists.
Koga has black, spikey hair and bushy eyebrows. He is always wearing a red scarf over his mouth and nose. He has a purple ninja-style outfit, with black finger gloves and boots. He has a white belt around his waist.
Koga shows himself as an intimidating foe, using Poison-type Pokémon, whose moves poison or lull the opponent to sleep, despite him trying to seem intimidating and telling his opponent that they rather had no chance on winning, upon defeat Koga shows himself disposed to embrace defeat and glorifyes his foe's victory by telling them that "You have proven your worth" , but also promising to looking forward to have another battle with them soon, where he promises to raise victorious.
The name Koga originates from Kōga-ryū, a school of ninjutsu that focused on, among other techniques, poisoning.
His Japanese name, Kyō, may originate from 凶 (kyō, misfortune), 戮 (kyō, kill), or 杏 (kyō, apricot, as apricot seeds are poisonous).
Koga first appears in the games as the Fuchsia City Gym Leader. His gym was constructed with an array of invisible walls, fashioned into a maze. This forces the player to walk through the maze fighting Gym members, with the destination in the middle where Koga awaits.
His role in Yellow is the same as it is in Red, Green and Blue .
Later, in the Generation II games, Koga has been promoted to Elite Four status. With the absence of a Gym Leader at Fuchsia Gym , Koga leaves the Gym under his daughter's care, Janine , making her the new Gym Leader.
His role in Crystal is the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
In the remakes of the original games, Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , Koga is once again a Gym Leader , as it takes place during the same time period. The only difference is the level of his Weezing , and his updated appearance.
In the remakes of the original games, Pokémon Gold, Silver and Crystal, Koga's role as an Elite Four member remains the same, as it takes place on the same time period, however, it is now possible to have a rematch with him, in which he will had a team with generation 3 and 4 pokémons, and the relation with his daughter Janine becomes more visible, with her bringing her father's lunch at the Pokémon League reception, as well as caring and feeling proud about her father's job at the Elite four.
...So you've come! I had a vision of your arrival. I have had psychic powers since I was a child. It started when I carelessly threw a spoon aside and it bent itself into an unnatural shape... I dislike battling, but if you wish to... Then I will show you my power!
Sabrina , also known by her title The Master of Psychic Pokémon , is a character debuting in Pocket Monsters Red and Pocket Monsters Green . She is the Saffron City Gym Leader and, hence the title she bears, is an adept user of Psychic - type Pokémon . Sabrina is fought in the Saffron City Gym , where she gives the Marsh Badge to Trainers who defeat her in a Pokémon battle . She possesses psychic abilities and specializes in Psychic -type Pokémon.
Sabrina is a slender young woman of medium height. She has long black hair with shorter layers around her face and a fringe and small reddish-purple eyes. She wears a small red and dress black in the middle at the waist with a slit on the sides with yellow cuffs over black tights/leggings, white gloves and red and yellow knee-high boots.
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Sabrina has shorter navy hair, now around shoulder length, wears a tight-fitting spaghetti strap pink crop top that shows off her midriff and shoulders, white slim fit ultra low-rise pants (which reveals her hips and some area above) attached with a black belt with a silver colored hexagonal belt buckle below her hips and pink slip on shoes. She also wears green and black bracelets on her wrists that glow on certain sections.
Sabrina appears in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! with a similar outfit, but her dress has black sleeves and an X is added, she also wears green boots.
Sabrina in the games is a far less complex character than her anime personification . Possessing a very serious and unwelcoming type of personality, Sabrina, much like the Pokémon she commands, is easily identifiable by the cold, calculating expression on her face. Her strong compatibility with Psychic -type Pokémon and her own, robotic appearance could mistake her for being inhuman.
Known as "The Master of Psychic Pokémon", she has had psychic powers ever since she was a child, when she threw a spoon and accidentally bent it. She apparently dislikes battling, but is hard to beat because she can communicate with her Pokémon telepathically.
The name Sabrina may originate from "psychic" and "brain". It may also be a reference to Sabrina, the Teenage Witch , a television series.
Her Japanese name, Natsume, is literally 棗 (natsume, jujube, a type of date), following the plant-based naming of most Gym Leaders. It may also include 目 (me, eye), as eyes are often symbols associated with magic and mystery as well as often being associated with the "mind's eye" associated with the brain.
Sabrina as Bellelba.
In the Generation I , Sabrina is encountered at her usual location, the Saffron City Gym, being the Gym Leader of Saffron City. When defeated, the player receives the Marsh Badge along with a TM . In the Generation I games, the player receives TM046 ( Psywave ) and in the Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version remakes, TM004 ( Calm Mind ).
In the Generation II games, Sabrina can again be fought in Saffron City Gym. As usual, Sabrina gives out the Marsh Badge to the player wins in a Pokémon battle against her, but not with any TM.
In the Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version remakes, Sabrina does give out TM048 ( Skill Swap ). Additionally, after losing to the player, Sabrina can be found at Olivine Port on Fridays , where she gives out her PokéGear number to the player. She is at Olivine Port on Mondays and can be called for a rematch on Sundays at the Fighting Dojo between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m.
In Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 , Sabrina is an actress in the Pokéstar Studios who appears in the "Magical Kingdom's Mysterious Doors" series of scripts, playing the role of Bellelba. Sabrina also appears at the Pokémon World Tournament .
Sabrina can be fought as one of the Gym Leaders in Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2 , in two separate rounds. In the second round of each game, Sabrina uses a wider variety of Pokémon aside from just Psychic types.
In Pokémon Puzzle League , Sabrina is one of fifteen playable characters in multiplayer mode, where her three Pokémon are Abra , Hypno , and Alakazam . In 1P Stadium, Sabrina is one of Ash 's opponents, and she hands out the Marsh Badge when defeated, as usual. Her theme song is an instrumental version of Everything Changes .
Hah! I'm Blaine, the red-hot Leader of Cinnabar Gym! My fiery Pokémon are all ready with intense heat! They incinerate all challengers! Hah! You better have Burn Heal!
Blaine is a character from Pokémon Red and Green Version . Also known by his title The Hotheaded Quiz Master , Blaine serves as the seventh Gym Leader at Cinnabar Island 's Gym . He specializes in using Fire - type Pokémon and gives the Volcano Badge to the trainers able to defeat him.
Blaine is an old man of medium height. He has a bald head, black round glasses and a white moustache, slightly similar to whiskers and slightly resembling Dr. Robotnik's.
Blaine wears a white lab coat over a white collared shirt with a purple tie. He also has a black belt with a golden buckle, dark green trousers, and black shoes..
Blaine wears a white lab coat over a dark green collared shirt with a red tie with 3 orange pokeball logos. He has a black belt with a silver buckle, blue trousers, and black shoes.
Blaine wears a red shirt under his white west, and dons a red tie. He also wears brown trousers and black shoes. He also wears a white fedora with a red stripe and a black belt with silver buckle.. He also has a long brown cane.
He wears a white lab coat over a blue collared shirt, with a red tie that resembles a flame. He also wears a black belt with a silver buckle, dark green trousers, and gray/brown shoes.
Passionate for his age, Blaine has high hopes in his abilities and not the type to be discouraged easily. Proving his skill is what Blaine desires most, even with the dramatic change of his gym that came to pass. Blaine's tenacity lights a fire in his heart, always he bares a smile on his face to highlight his spirit.
The name Blaine may originate from "blaze" and "flame".
His Japanese name, Katsura, is literally 桂 (katsura, referring to the katsura tree). It may also include 火 (ka, fire).
Blaine has preferred fire type Pokémon in his time as a gym leader.
Blaine first appeared in the Generation I games as the Cinnabar Island Gym Leader. Before actually getting inside Blaine's Gym however, the player must find the Secret Key (Sinnoh) to unlock the Gym's door, which is located in the Pokémon Mansion next door. His Gym was filled with quiz machines that unlocked the doors leading up to him. If the player answers incorrectly, they are forced to battle a Gym member.
In the Generation II games, the volcano on Cinnabar Island has erupted forcing Blaine to relocate to the Seafoam Islands .
In the Generation III remakes, Blaine is again the Cinnabar Gym Leader, with an updated appearance.
So! I must say, I am impressed you got here. Team Rocket captures Pokémon from around the world. They're important tools for keeping our criminal enterprise going. I am the leader, Giovanni! For your insolence, you will feel a world of pain!
Giovanni is an antagonist who is the Gym Leader for Viridian City 's Gym , and the Boss of the criminal organization, Team Rocket . As the eighth Gym Leader in Kanto , Giovanni holds the Earth Badge for the trainers that defeat him, and specializes in Ground - type Pokémon .
In the Generation II games, Giovanni has disappeared inexplicably after his third and final loss to Red , leaving Team Rocket disorganized and confused.
Later, an alternate version of Giovanni has successfully taken over the world and reconstructed the entire organization into Team Rainbow Rocket in Alola and gathers all the other leaders from the past five regions.
Giovanni is a tall, medium built, middle aged man. He has very short, flat, dark hair and small dark eyes. He wears a long sleeved black shirt with a large V neck that shows off a white undershirt, black slightly baggy trousers and black shoes.
As the manipulative leader of Team Rocket, Giovanni has a knack for being underhanded. His general attitude is untrustworthy to say the least, giving off a conniving or serious expression at times. It is revealed during his relationship with the notorious Legendary Pokémon Mewtwo that he sees all Pokémon as a source of power for his own will to abuse.
However, he is not unable to see when he has been defeated, even if he is rather salty about it. Despite his dislike for Red, he gives him the Earth Badge if he defeats him in Viridian City, even giving him a TM ( Earthquake ). It is unknown if this was simply because it is mandatory for Gym Leaders to give these items to the victors, or for some other reason (after all, Giovanni doesn’t seem like the type to care all that much about mandatory rules).
He also seems to have at least a bit of humanity in him; after the player defeats him at his Gym in the Generation I games, he will state that “having lost in this fashion, I cannot face my followers.” This hints that he feels rather ashamed that he was bested so many times by Red. He also laments on the fact that he “betrayed them all.” This gives us a clue that he does perhaps care for people, or at the very least, he cares for his followers.
However, his feelings towards his son, Silver (who is the player's Rival in Generation II ), are unclear. He abandoned Silver along with all of Team Rocket after being defeated by Red. It is possible that this was for much the same reason he abandoned Team Rocket (feeling as though he cannot face him, etc.). Nonetheless, this was an incredibly selfish act on Giovanni’s part, as he considered his own feelings before his child.
The name Giovanni may originate from geo- , a prefix meaning "earth", as he is a Ground -type Trainer. His localized name's Italian etymology likely alludes to the Sicilian Mafia , a crime syndicate based out of Italy, which Team Rocket's localized appearances (in Japanese, they're based on a Yakuza faction, a type of Japanese crime syndicate) are based on.
His Japanese name, Sakaki, is literally 榊 (sakaki, a sacred tree that the Earth Badge resembles). It may also include 坂 (saka, slope).
Giovanni first appeared in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version as the leader of Team Rocket . After he and his soldiers, the Team Rocket Grunts , were defeated at both the Rocket Hideout and Silph Co. , Giovanni himself escapes to an unknown hideout. Eventually, it is revealed that he is the Gym Leader of the Viridian Gym , and the final Gym Leader the player character faces. Upon defeating him for good, Giovanni states that he's giving up on Team Rocket, subsequently disbands the organization, and disappears, and is not seen again for the rest of the game.
Later on, in Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Team Rocket has returned, led by Executives, now functioning without Giovanni, and believes that he himself will return. The lost Team Rocket attempts several acts in order to call their former Leader, though he never makes an appearance.
In Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Giovanni retains his first role as the main villain and Viridian Gym Leader as in Red and Blue with the exception of passing the protagonist the TM ( Earthquake ) instead of the TM ( Fissure ). At the Sevii Islands , a group of renegade Team Rocket Grunts and Admins attempt to continue their schemes but are defeated by the protagonist.
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , like in the originals, the return of Team Rocket led by Executive Archer attempt to regaining their evil glory by committing several acts such as at the Slowpoke Well and the Lake of Rage . After being foiled by the protagonist, Team Rocket took over the Goldenrod Radio Tower to contact their missing leader but are once again defeated. Archer then disbands Team Rocket forever, much like his leader three years ago.
It was later revealed during the Celebi Event that Giovanni heard the broadcast from his radio in his hideout in Tohjo Falls . After being defeated, he disappears. During the event, it was also revealed that Silver was Giovanni's son who was abandoned by his father when he met his defeat at the hands of Red. This act reflects on Giovanni's selfishness.
In Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 , he appears at the Pokémon World Tournament mode wearing his Celebi event outfit.
In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon , an alternate version of himself appears in the Alola region, where he has formed Team Rainbow Rocket . This new, powerful villainous team , in addition to Giovanni (who is the leader), consists of Archie from Team Aqua , Maxie from Team Magma , Cyrus from Team Galactic , Ghetsis from Team Plasma , Lysandre from Team Flare , and Faba from Aether Paradise , and numerous Team Rainbow Rocket grunts.
He and other individuals all hail from an alternate universe where they actually achieved their prior villainous goals and were brought to Alola through an Ultra Wormhole .
At some point late in the game, the player character enters the Team Rainbow Rocket hideout to put an end to their (currently unknown) plans, battling all of the villainous team leaders and Giovanni himself in the process.
(Pokémon picked randomly from the list. Rhyperior is certain to be the first.)
Professor Oak is a middle-aged Pokémon Professor with gray hair and sports a light lilac polo shirt underneath his lab coat. He wears a brown belt supporting his beige pants along with matching brown loafers.
Oak is eccentric, as he not only studies Pokémon, but has invented several unique gadgets, used especially within the spinoff games.
The last name Oak could possibly originate from the "oak" tree.
His Japanese surname, Ookido, possibly comes from "orchid".
Professor Oak introducing himself in the intro of Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version
In Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , and later remakes, Professor Oak is the one who introduces himself and has the player enter their name as well as their rival 's, whose name he somehow forgot. After this, the player's journey begins.
Professor Oak lives in Pallet Town . He is absent from his lab until the player attempts to leave town, when he runs up to the player and makes them follow him to his lab. He allows the player to choose a first partner Pokémon . Later on, the player has to enter the Poké Mart in Viridian City , where the store clerk gives them Oak's Parcel , which the player then has to deliver back to Professor Oak. In return, Oak gives the player a Pokédex and five Poké Balls . Throughout the player's journey, Oak sends his assistants out to give items to the player after catching at least a certain number of Pokémon .
Professor Oak encountering a wild Pikachu in Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition
In Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , when the player walks into tall grass outside of Pallet Town for the first time, they will encounter a Pikachu . Oak manages to catch the Pikachu and gives to the player, since their rival took the Eevee that was intended for them. The game gives Oak a unique back sprite shown only during the wild Pikachu encounter.
In Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version , Oak provides a tutorial on Pokémon battles when the player is challenged by their rival for the first time, inside of the lab. He also gives the player the National Pokédex once they have caught at least 60 Pokémon.
Professor Oak in the opening of Pokémon SoulSilver Version
In Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Pokémon Crystal Version , and the remakes Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Professor Oak is first seen introducing the player to the game at the very start, just as he did in the Generation I games, but he now asks for the time , which was added as a mechanic, as well as player's gender in Pokémon Crystal Version and Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version .
Shortly after the player starts their journey, Oak gives them the Pokédex in Route 30 , after they have obtained the Mystery Egg from Mr. Pokémon . At Goldenrod City , Professor Oak co-hosts a radio show with DJ Mary titled Professor Oak's Pokémon Talk , where he talks about Pokémon and their locations. The radio show made Professor Oak famous in the Johto region. He is also friends with Kurt and Professor Elm .
In Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , Oak was given a larger role. He similarly hands out the National Pokédex like in the Sinnoh games, although the criteria is different, since the player has to win against the Elite Four instead. After the player wins against every Johto and Kanto Gym Leader, Oak gives HM08 ( Rock Climb ) to them. Furthermore, after Red is defeated in Mt. Silver , the player can choose one of the three first partner Pokémon from Professor Oak. Lastly, Professor Oak gives the player a Jade Orb if they show him both a Kyogre and a Groudon obtained in Embedded Tower .
In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version and Pokémon Platinum Version , Oak appears in the Pokémon Lab in Sandgem Town after the player has completed the Sinnoh Pokédex , which he upgrades to the National Pokédex , and gives the Poké Radar app for the Pokétch . From dialogue, Oak is revealed to be good friends with Professor Rowan .
The next encounter with Oak is at Pal Park , during the player's first visit there. Oak installs the Trainer Counter app on the player's Pokétch then tells them that he will be staying at Eterna City for some time, also wanting to use the opportunity to research Pokémon native to the Sinnoh region.
Oak can next be found at his house, located in the southernmost part of Eterna City. Here, Oak gives an Upgrade to the player, which had apparently been given to him by one of his aides back in to Kanto. Afterward, Oak begins talking about the Legendary Birds — Articuno , Zapdos , and Moltres —after which they can be found roaming the Sinnoh region.
One of the event items is Oak's Letter . When the player obtains it, Oak awaits them at Route 224 . Oak shows the white rock and its purpose of one noting what they are most thankful for. The player has to add a note for the Seabreak Path to be revealed, where Shaymin can be found.
Oak has appeared in several spin-off games, namely during Generation I and Generation II , and most of the games base Oak on his appearance in Pokémon the Series .
In Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2 , Oak runs the Pokémon Lab , where the player can interact with a Generation I game in the core series (as well as Generation II in Pokémon Stadium 2 ) if their Game Pak is connected to a Transfer Pak , allowing for functions such as transferring Pokémon and items.
In Hey You, Pikachu! , Oak plays a major role, with his newest invention is the PokéHelper , which can translate speech from Pokémon. The player uses it on a Pikachu, who proceeds to befriend them throughout the game.
In Pokémon Snap , Oak enlists Todd Snap to help him complete Oak's Pokémon Report , by taking photographs of the Pokémon he encounters in different areas. After the player finishes the stage, Oak evaluates their results.
In Pokémon Puzzle League and Pokémon Puzzle Challenge , Oak retains a role of being a guide to the player.
In the PokéROM discs, Oak has a role of being the guide throughout. He moderates the player as they do quizzes and other minigames.
In Pokémon Channel , Oak has a major role of running a television network intended for humans and Pokémon alike, and he is the player's guide throughout the game. At the very start, Oak introduces himself to the player, after their TV arrives, and asks the player to be the test audience for several television programs on it. He asks the player to input their name, much like during the introduction of the Generation I and Generation II games. Later on, a Pikachu enters the player's house, and Oak includes it as another member of the test audience. At one point, Pikachu uses Thunderbolt to destroy the TV, so Professor Oak sends some Magnemites to deliver a new one the next day until the original gets repaired.
Oak is directly featured within one of the channels, Prof. Oak Report , where the player can report on recent accomplishments to Oak and save their game progress.
There is an obtainable trophy of Professor Oak in Super Smash Bros. Melee .
Professor Oak battling the player in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , which is not normally possible
Professor Elm is a middle-aged man with short brown hair and gray eyes. He wears a pair of glasses, as well as a white lab coat with two pockets and a collared teal shirt. Professor Elm also wears brown pants with a black belt and brown shoes.
He also wears a light blue collared shirt, with two stripes: the upper one is dark green and the lower one is white.
Professor Elm's appearance remains the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
He wears a teal collared shirt, but with no stripes. Also, Elm wears a dark brown belt around his waist.
The last name Elm could possibly originate from the "elm" tree.
His Japanese surname, Utsugi, comes from ウツギ ( utsugi , the Japanese name for the Deutzia genus of flowering plants).
He is the Professor of the Johto region , and is described as "a little scatter brained and disorganized" by his wife. In Platinum , a hiker in Hearthome City that in Diamond and Pearl previously gave you an egg containing Happiny , mentions him and Elm being great friends.
He is the featured professor in the Generation II games ( Gold , Silver , and Crystal ) and their Generation IV remakes ( HeartGold and Soul Silver ).
Professor Elm's Lab
Professor Birch is a tall, fat man with fair skin, dark eyes, short and slightly wavy brown hair, and a squarish face with a beard. He wears a navy blue T-shirt under a white lab coat, khaki shorts with a black belt, and tan sandals on his feet. He is also sometimes seen with a brown bag, which he keeps his research papers in.
Professor Birch is a very outgoing and friendly person. Although he's fat, he's very active and often researches outside, as he doesn't like being in cramped spaces. Additionally, he is also kind and generous and doesn't hesitate to help others, like every professor in the Pokémon games. However, despite his positive traits, Professor Birch is also a goofy, cowardly man that often gets into severe trouble. He commonly needs rescuing from others due to being jumped and chased by wild Pokémon so often; in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, he even gets chased by his wife.
The last name Birch could possibly originate from the "birch" tree.
His Japanese surname, Odamaki, comes from オダマキ ( odamaki , the Japanese name for the columbine flower).
Professor Birch being attacked by a Poochyena at the start of Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version .
In Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version , Birch is the first character to be seen, welcoming the player to the Pokémon World whenever they start a new save , just as Professor Oak does in earlier core games .
Birch greeting the player in his lab in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version .
Shortly after moving into Littleroot Town at the start of the game, a boy informs the player that someone is asking for help. The player finds Birch being chased by a wild Poochyena , so he asks them to take one of the three Hoenn first partner Pokémon to battle the wild Pokémon: Treecko , Mudkip , or Torchic .
After Poochyena is defeated, the Pokémon Professor thanks the player by taking them to his laboratory , where he gives the player a Pokédex and tells the player to keep the first partner Pokémon they chose earlier. Birch asks the player to find their rival on Route 103 . From here, Birch's role is to evaluate the player's progress of filling their Pokédex.
The fifth room of the Trick House features two questions relating Professor Birch. One of the questions asks which Pokémon was on the right side of his bag (particularly at the start), the answer being Mudkip. The other question asks which Pokémon was chasing Birch, with the answer being Poochyena.
In the ending, after the player enters the Hall of Fame by defeating the Pokémon Champion , Birch appears next to the player's rival.
In Pokémon Emerald Version , Prof. Birch is chased by a Zigzagoon . Additionally, it is a girl informs the player of Birch being chased instead of a boy.
Birch is later found near the Trick House, where he asks the player to register him in the PokéNav .
The fifth room of the Trick House does not retain the question of which Pokémon was on the right of Birch's bag, but the question of which Pokémon chased him was changed to Zigzagoon.
After completing the Hoenn Pokédex , Prof. Birch gives the player either a Chikorita , Cyndaquil , or a Totodile .
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , Birch has the same role at the start as in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version , being chased by a Poochyena, requiring the player to choose either a Treecko, Torchic, or Mudkip and defeat the Poochyena. The game now introduces a running gag where Birch often gets chased by a wild Pokémon , and the player has to rescue him using a first partner Pokémon of a different region .
After getting into the Hall of Fame , he is chased by a Shroomish and one has to choose either a Chikorita , Cyndaquil or a Totodile . Interestingly, though, he says that the Shroomish isn't a threat to him, but lets the player character keep the Pokémon anyway.
After the player completes the Delta Episode , Birch is chased by a Machoke holding some boxes. The player has to choose either a Snivy , Tepig or an Oshawott . (Interestingly though, he mistakes the Machoke as a wild one, but lets them keep the Pokémon anyway.)
After getting into the Hall of Fame twice, he is chased by his wife and the player can choose from a Turtwig , Chimchar or a Piplup . (Interestingly, though, he mistakes his wife for a wild Pokémon, but lets them keep the Pokémon anyway.)
Professor Rowan is a man of 60 with fair skin, blue eyes, and spiky white hair with sideburns and a mustache. He wears a gray jacket over a white shirt paired with a light blue vest, a gray tie, dark teal pants, and gray shoes. Sometimes, he wears a white lab coat with his outfit.
He appears to have a serious demeanor, compared to previous Professors' kind and cheery attitudes.
The last name Rowan could possibly originate from the "rowan" tree.
His Japanese surname, Nanakamado, comes from 七竈 ( nanakamado , also known as the Japanese rowan).
Professor Rowan is responsible for giving beginner Trainers a First partner Pokémon , specifically Turtwig , Chimchar , or Piplup .
As the lead manager of his laboratory, like Professor Oak , Professor Rowan is given the task of introducing the player throughout the beginning of the game as well as helping his assistant, Dawn or Lucas , choose which Pokémon to start with. Professor Rowan can be found in Sandgem Town researching and collecting data on various Pokémon. He also upgrades the player's Pokédex to National Mode when they have seen 150 Sinnoh Pokémon.
Prior to Pokémon X and Y , Professor Rowan taught Professor Sycamore much about Pokémon Evolution when he was young.
Professor Juniper is a tall woman with fair skin, green eyes, and poofy honey-colored hair. She wears a pale greenish-blue lab coat and a white blouse, along with a short green skirt and athletic white shoes with red stripes. She also has red rectangular earrings in both of her ears.
Her Japanese surname, Araragi, comes from アララギ ( araragi , the Japanese name of the spreading yew). It may also come from あらら ( arara ), an extension of あら ( ara ), used in situations like "ah~!" or "oh my~!" (to express concern); she uses this as a catchphrase in her speech, too.
Her English surname, Juniper, could possibly originate from the "juniper" tree.
Right at the start of the game, the player sees her enter and quickly exit a house, then them and their friends standing in front of a green box, which is opened and inside are three first partner Pokémon that, as in all the other games, is chosen first. The male rival Cheren chooses the partner with the type advantage over the player's choice, while Bianca chooses the remaining partner. When the player's first Pokémon is chosen, she demonstrates the method of simple battling and catching a wild Pokémon. She uses a Minccino to battle and she catches a Patrat, which can be seen in her lab.
Concept artwork of Professor Sycamore.
Professor Sycamore is a middle-aged man, with black, curly hair, bluish eyes and some facial hair under his ears. Sycamore wears a blue shirt, black trousers with a yellow belt (which has the buckle shaped like a circle), and also wears orange socks and brown trainers with gray stripes. Sycamore also wears a brown watch on his left arm and often wears with his white lab coat when he is not conducting field research.
Sycamore is a cheerful professor, who likes to help others. However, Sycamore's cheerfulness leads him sometimes to be naive and even oblivious of events and people. When seeing there is trouble abound, Sycamore becomes determined to conduct research to assist others. Sycamore was Lysandre's friend, but was shocked to see Lysandre is Team Flare's leader.
The last name Sycamore comes from the "sycamore" tree.
His Japanese surname, Platane, comes from Platanus , the genus sycamore trees belong to.
Professor Sycamore was a student to Professor Rowan two years before moving to Kalos. He later studied at the Tower of Mastery in the hopes of learning to wield Mega Evolution, but decided that he was not strong enough, and left to become a Pokémon Professor.
He is characterized by his dark, unkempt hair, and the trademark white lab coat of all Pokémon Professors. He is noticeably younger than most Pokémon Professors in the series, and is even described in-game by a Backpacker as an "eccentric ladies' man". He seems to be fluent in both French and English.
Professor Kukui has a tall, athletic build with a confident and approachable presence that reflects his active role in both research and Pokémon battling. His facial features are sharp and expressive—he has a strong jawline, a short goatee, and warm brown eyes framed by green-rimmed rectangular glasses. Thick eyebrows and a bright, enthusiastic smile give him an energetic and friendly appearance.
His clothing is a perfect reflection of his laid-back, island lifestyle and energetic personality. He wears a white lab coat open and unbuttoned, revealing his bare, muscular chest—a bold choice that emphasizes his casual and confident nature. His outfit includes light gray, cropped athletic pants with black compression leggings underneath, blending comfort with practicality. He sports green flip-flop sandals, adding to his relaxed, beach-ready look. Kukui also wears a white cap featuring a colorful rainbow design, turned slightly sideways for extra flair, and stylish green-rimmed rectangular glasses that give him a distinctive and modern edge. His outfit balances the roles of a professional Pokémon Professor and a spirited, hands-on battler, standing out as uniquely Alolan and unmistakably Kukui.
The Masked Royal's clothing is a striking and theatrical wrestling outfit that perfectly embodies his fiery, energetic persona. He wears a red and black luchador-style mask adorned with golden accents and bold angular designs, concealing his identity while exuding power and charisma. His muscular torso is left bare, showcasing his strength, while a dramatic red cape with jagged black trim flows behind him, adding flair to his movements. He sports tight red wrestling tights decorated with black flame motifs, complemented by black gloves and sturdy black boots. The vibrant color palette and dramatic styling capture the spirit of a showman, blending the excitement of professional wrestling with the intensity of Pokémon battles, making the Masked Royal a larger-than-life figure in the Alola region. Later, he wears a Z-Ring on his left arm.
The Professor is upbeat, passionate, and full of warmth. He's known for his enthusiasm for Pokémon battles, often getting fired up when talking about them, which reflects his deep love for both the sport and the bond between Trainers and Pokémon. Despite being a professor, he breaks the mold of the traditional academic—he's hands-on, physically active, and incredibly approachable. Kukui is friendly, supportive, and charismatic, serving as a mentor and father figure to many young Trainers in the Alola region. He values learning through experience and encourages others to grow by facing challenges head-on. His laid-back, island-style demeanor is balanced by a strong sense of responsibility and genuine care for others, making him both a respected researcher and a beloved role model.
The last name Kukui could possibly originate from the "kukui" nut tree, the national tree of Hawaii.
Before arriving in the Alola region, Professor Kukui embarked on a journey across the Kanto region. There, he challenged the region's Gym Leaders, gradually rising through the ranks. It is revealed that Elio/Selene's mother had witnessed Kukui's battles during this time, indicating that he had garnered a reputation as a skilled Trainer even outside his home region. Despite the difficulty of the challenge, Kukui managed to compete in the Indigo Plateau's Pokémon League, making it all the way to face Lance, referred to as “the dragon user in the cape.” Although it is not explicitly stated whether Kukui defeated Lance, the experience had a profound impact on him. Inspired by the structure and prestige of the Kanto Pokémon League, Kukui returned to Alola determined to create a similar institution in his own region.
As part of his vision for Alola, Kukui laid the foundations for the region's first-ever Pokémon League. He invited powerful Trainers from across the islands to help form the Elite Four. Though offered the role of Trial Captain in Alola, Kukui declined, believing his goals lay elsewhere. Guzma suggests he is a failure and a misfit just like him. Once the Pokémon League in the Alola region is opened, Kukui is the final Trainer the player character will face. Though not officially the Champion, Kukui is nevertheless a powerful Trainer.
Kukui's role is very similar to what it is in Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon , but with a few tweaks to the beginning and the end of the player's journey. In these games, Kukui gives the player their first partner Pokémon on Route 1. He still provides the Rotom Pokédex, guides the player through trials and grand trials, and supports the building of the League at Mount Lanakila. At the end, upon completing all trials, Kukui greets the player at the gates of the now‑completed Pokémon League resting atop Mount Lanakila, explains how the Elite Four challenge works, and wishes the player luck.
Professor Sada has a fierce and primal appearance that sets her apart from the typical image of a Pokémon professor. She wears a prehistoric-inspired outfit featuring an orange and black animal-print crop top and matching shorts with jagged edges, adorned with fang-like accessories at the waist. Her look is accessorized with fur-trimmed sandals and leg warmers, as well as a necklace and bracelets that resemble ancient tribal ornaments. Over this wild ensemble, she wears a stark white lab coat, blending her scientific role with her rugged aesthetic. Her long, voluminous brown hair is tied back with orange-striped bands, and she has sharp, confident eyes that reflect her bold and intense personality.
Sada had an immense fascination with history of the past and its Pokémon, so much so that she invented a time machine to make contact with the ancient past. She is a highly skilled inventor, with her time machine and robotic counterpart being prime examples. The robotic counterpart is far more advanced than any AI in the game, having retained her personality, memories and also has the ability to experience feelings and computing data.
Sada also had a strong desire to protect the time machine she created, taking great measures to keep it safe by installing numerous security systems to the point that her AI counterpart believed that it was all she cared about. However, the AI also remarks that she truly loved her son, another evidence of her love for Arven is the photo of Arven as a toddler and Mabosstiff as a Maschiff together that she has in her lab.
At one point, it is presumed Sada married Professor Turo and had a son with him, naming him Arven . As the years progressed, Turo eventually left her, making her more focused on her research and thus having a strained relationship with Arven. She eventually created an artificial intelligence that was identical to her in appearance, and the AI helped her invent a time machine in order to make contact with the past. Discovering living beings couldn't travel through it, Professor Sada instead sent Poké Balls through the time machine that catch Pokémon from the past and bring them to the present, with the first of these Pokémon being Koraidon .
After catching these ancient Pokémon, they were dubbed " Paradox Pokémon " and Sada conducted research on them in hopes that they can one day coexist with modern Pokémon, though after they were proved too dangerous to Paldea, the Pokémon were locked in Area Zero . During this time, she also discovered how to bring the Terastal phenomenon outside the crater in the form of Tera Orbs and invented a Pokémon ID locking system and the Paradise Protection Protocol to further defend her time machine.
Sada then recovered a second Koraidon, who was more aggressive in nature than the first one. Tragically, after it went rampant in her lab and tried to attack the first Koraidon, she threw herself in front of the latter to protect it, injuring her so severely that she passed away. After her sacrifice, AI Sada had took care of her lab in her place until meeting the player character, not revealing the fate of the original Sada to anyone, including Arven.
Afterwards, AI Sada managed to meet the protagonist, who would only meet them in the research stations around Area Zero. During this time, AI Sada learned that the past Pokémon were escaping from Area Zero and that they would cause havoc in Paldea if left unchecked, and thus resolved to shut the machine off for good. When the protagonist arrived, they used the Scarlet Book that Arven had given them, although AI Sada warned them that she would end up fighting them should they attempt it.
Once the book was placed, AI Sada battled the protagonist and was defeated. However, a second failsafe mechanism took place that activated the Paradise Protection Protocol, calling the other Koraidon to eliminate the intruders. The protagonist's Koraidon was able to activate its Battle Form and defeated it after a long battle, returning AI Sada to her original programming. The AI then decided to head into the past, both to ensure the machine would not cause any further harm to the present to also experience an adventure, taking the Scarlet book with her.
Upon the player returning to the Crystal Pool , after obtaining Briar's Book and Terapagos , Sada will appear from the mist, who will offer to trade her book for Briar's, which cannot be denied. After this, she will be sent back to her own timeline. Based on her notes found in the Area Zero Underdepths , this is implied to have created a bootstrap paradox , as Sada calls Koraidon its original name Winged King and remarks about meeting a child (the player) in the eastern lands who gave her a book.
During Part 2:
Professor Turo has a sleek and futuristic appearance that reflects his focus on advanced technology and the mysteries of the future. He wears a high-tech, form-fitting bodysuit in shades of black and deep purple, with glowing circuit-like patterns running across the chest and legs, giving him a distinctly sci-fi aesthetic. Over this, he dons a traditional white lab coat, grounding his look in his role as a Pokémon professor. His short, neatly groomed silver-gray hair and well-trimmed beard give him a composed and intellectual look. With a serious expression and confident posture, Turo exudes a calm, analytical presence.
Turo had an immense fascination with the history of the future and its Pokémon, so much so that he invented a time machine to make contact with the distant future. He is a highly skilled inventor, with his time machine and robotic counterpart being prime examples. The robotic counterpart is far more advanced than any AI in the game, having retained his personality, memories and also has the ability to experience feelings and computing data.
Turo also had a strong desire to protect the time machine he created, taking great measures to keep it safe by installing numerous security systems to the point that his AI counterpart believed that it was all he cared about. However, the AI also remarks that he did truly care for his son.
At one point, Turo married Professor Sada and had a son with her, naming him Arven . As the years progressed, Sada eventually left him. He eventually created a robot that was identical to him in appearance and the AI helped him invent a time machine in order to make contact with the distant future. Discovering living beings couldn't travel through it, Professor Turo instead sent Poke Balls through the time machine and catch Pokemon from the future and brought them to the present, one of these Pokémon being Miraidon .
After catching these future Pokémon, they were dubbed " Paradox Pokémon " and Turo conducted research on them in hopes that they can one day coexist with modern Pokémon, though after they were proved too dangerous to Paldea, the Pokémon were locked in Area Zero. During this time, he also discovered how to bring the Terastal phenomenon outside of the crater in the form of Tera Orbs and invented a Pokémon ID locking system and Paradise Protection Protocol to further defend his time machine from any threats.
Turo then recovered a second Miraidon, which was more aggressive in nature than the first one. It went rampant in the lab and attempted to attack the first Miraidon, he threw himself in front of the latter to protect it, injuring him so severely that he ended up dying.
After his sacrifice, the AI Professor Turo had taken care of his lab in his place until meeting the protagonist, who would only meet them in the research stations around Area Zero . During this time, AI Turo learned that the future Pokémon were escaping from Area Zero and that they would cause havoc in Paldea if left unchecked, and thus resolved to shut the machine off for good. When the protagonist arrived, they used a Violet Book that Arven had given them, although AI Turo warned them that he would end up fighting them should they attempt it.
Once the book was placed, AI Turo battled the protagonist and was defeated. However, a second failsafe mechanism took place that activated the Paradise Protection Protocol, calling the other Miraidon to eliminate the intruders. The protagonist's Miraidon was able to activate its Battle Form and defeated it after a long battle, returning AI Turo to his original programming. The AI then decided to head into the future, both to ensure the machine would not cause any further harm to the present to also experience an adventure, taking the Violet Book with him.
Upon the player returning to the Crystal Pool , after obtaining Briar's Book and Terapagos , Turo will appear from the mist, who will offer to trade his book for Briar's, which cannot be denied. After this, he will be sent back to his own timeline. Based on his notes found in the Area Zero Underdepths , this is implied to have created a bootstrap paradox , as Turo calls Miraidon its original name Iron Serpent and remarks about meeting a child (the player) in the eastern lands who gave him a book.
During Part 2:
If Lyra is chosen as the playable protagonist in the remakes, Ethan will appear as a side character.
Ethan is a young boy with pale skin, short navy blue hair, with shallowtail flag-shaped bangs that stick out from underneath the left side of his cap. His eyes match the color of his hair. His build is slim and athletic.
He wears a backwards-cap with the back being mustard yellow and the front being black with a red Poké ball logo (according to art showing the front of his hat), a red hoodie with white hood, white kangaroo pocket, and a white non-functional zipper detail, a black T-shirt underneath, and yellow shorts with black sides. On the righthand side of his hoodie, Ethan sports a Poké Ball holster. His footwear consists of sneakers—colored red, white, black, and yellow—paired with short red socks. To carry his items, he hefts around a bulky backpack, which is typically shown as white with a red Poké Ball design on the front pocket.
Ethan sports a backward cap with a yellow streak in the center from front to back. His upper attire consists of three layers: a black t-shirt, a thin white hoodie, and a red jacket with a collar vaguely resembling a sailor's collar. Additionally, the jacket has black cuffs at the end of the sleeves. The right cuff has his Pokégear— blue in color— attached to it. Ethan also carries a gray crossbody backpack to store his items, hung over his left shoulder. It has a darker gray Poké Ball design in the corner. As for Ethan's lower body, he wears black capri pants with a small white square on each cuff, and for footwear, he has on a pair of sneakers— red, white, and gray in color.
As is usual for player characters in the Pokémon series, the playable version of Ethan expresses very little personality or emotion, being a self-insert of the player.
Ethan is a young Trainer from the Johto region who sets out to prove himself three years after Red became the Pokémon League Champion . Ethan's journey as a Trainer begins when Professor Elm asks him to run an errand for Mr. Pokémon, who lives north of Cherrygrove City on Route 30. Because he could encounter dangerous wild Pokémon along the way, Elm gives him a choice between three Pokémon to protect him: Cyndaquil, Totodile or Chikorita.
Ethan spots another boy his age watching Elm's Lab from outside. When Ethan tries to talk to him, the boy abruptly shoves him away. This boy, Silver, will become Ethan's rival.
Ethan continues onward and finally meets Mr. Pokémon and completes his errand. While there he meets Professor Oak who, upon realizing Ethan's bond with his new Pokémon, gives him a Pokédex. On his way back home, Ethan again meets Silver, who has stolen one of Elm's remaining Pokémon. After defeating the boy in battle, the boy tells Ethan his name, and Ethan relays it to the police in New Bark Town. Professor Elm allows Ethan to keep the Pokémon he chose earlier, and also encourages him to compete in the Johto League.
Ethan begins on a Pokémon journey in the Johto region, facing off against its eight Gym Leaders, Falkner, Bugsy, Whitney, Morty, Chuck, Jasmine, Pryce and Claire, defeating and disbanding the revived Team Rocket, and becoming Pokémon League Champion by defeating the Elite Four and its previous Champion, Lance at Indigo Plateau. Along the way he also teaches Silver to respect Pokémon as living creatures and not just as tools for battle.
After being declared the Pokémon League Champion, Ethan then journeys by ship from Olivine City to Vermilion City in Kanto. Traveling around that region, he battles against another set of eight Gym Leaders, Brock, Misty, Lt. Surge, Erika, Janine, Sabrina, Blaine and Blue. Upon getting permission from Professor Oak in Pallet Town, Ethan heads for Mt. Silver via Route 28. His journey comes to an end when, deep in Mt. Silver's cave, he faces the Champion from Pallet Town, Red, who had been training there shortly after he became Pokémon League Champion three years prior.
His role in Crystal is the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
His role in HeartGold and SoulSilver is same as it in the original, but if Lyra is chosen as the player character, he will be a side character.
Lyra is a short, skinny young girl with fair skin, light auburn hair tied into low bunched pigtails, and light brown eyes. Her attire consists of a poofy white hat with a big red ribbon, a red quarter-sleeved hoodie with a white collar (under which she wears a black undershirt), and dark blue overalls with a buttoned front and legs ending at the upper thigh. On her feet, she wears long white socks with black borders at the tops, leaving a section of leg exposed between them and her overalls. Her shoes are simple, rounded and have no visible fastening mechanism, and are red with white soles. She carries a large, single-strapped pale yellow handbag over her left shoulder, which stores her items.
After Lyra enters the Pokéathlon Dome and receives a sporting outfit from Whitney , she wears it when participating in events. Her outfit consists of a pink and white jersey, small pink and white shorts, and pink and white shoes. Despite Lyra's skinny, small-framed build and short stature, her jersey size is apparently a "medium" instead of a "small" (though it may just be embellishment on account of Whitney's ditzy nature).
While the playable version of Lyra displays no personality and little emotion (aside from turning around in apparent fear just before her Team Rocket disguise is blown in the Radio Tower), being a complete self-insert of the player, the NPC version of Lyra is cheerful, sweet, and a little ditzy. She greatly respects the player character and is implied to have a crush on them, getting very flustered when her grandmother teases her about having a boy as her friend.
When selected to be played in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, Lyra is a young girl that lives in New Bark Town with her mother. She starts her journey three years after Red became the Pokémon League Champion .
At the start of the game, Lyra's mother tells her that their neighbor, Professor Elm , has been looking for her. Lyra's mother then gives her daughter her Pokégear back (as it recently came back from the repair shop) and tells her to go see the professor. When Lyra enters Elm's lab, the professor asks her to do something for Mr. Pokémon , a famous researcher that likes to rave about his discoveries. Elm then talks to Lyra some more about his errand, revealing that Mr. Pokémon lives to the north, past the city of Cherrygrove. Since attempting to travel to Mr. Pokémon's house without protection would be a fool's errand (as it would result in Lyra being ravaged by the many Wild Pokémon that live on the nearby routes), Professor Elm allows her to pick one of three special Pokémon ( Cyndaquil , Totodile , or Chikorita ) to keep herself safe. On Elm's suggestion, whichever Pokémon Lyra picks is kept out of its Poké Ball and walks next to her during her errand.
Now having a layer of protection from any Wild Pokémon that may choose to hurt her, Lyra eventually manages to meet Mr. Pokémon and complete the task that Professor Elm had gave her. While at Mr. Pokémon's house, she also meets Professor Oak , Mr. Pokémon's friend, and talks to him a bit. When their conversation nears an end, Lyra receives a Pokédex from him, a tool that she'll make use of many times later in her life. Turning to leave, Lyra then receives a frantic Pokégear call from Professor Elm. He begs Lyra to return home and help him figure out what to do, as someone broke into his lab and stole one of the special Pokémon from earlier.
When Lyra reaches the outskirts of Cherrygrove City, she gets accosted by a rude boy with striking red hair. When the boy sees Lyra's Pokémon, he calls her a wimp and says that her Pokémon is too good for her. Saying that he has a Pokémon of his own, the boy challenges Lyra to a battle, where it is revealed that he is the thief that broke into Elm's lab. After being victorious or defeated, Lyra learns the boy's name when he drops his Trainer Card. Running back home, Lyra then reenters Elm's lab, where a chaotic scene is unfolding. A policeman questions her, but her friend Ethan stands up for her and declares her to be innocent of any wrongdoing. To corroborate his statement, Lyra gives the red-haired boy's name to the policeman. Allowing her to keep her new Pokémon as thanks, Professor Elm also tells Lyra to try to conquer the Johto region's Pokémon League, as he believes in her.
Taking Professor Elm's advice to heart, Lyra decides to travel Johto on a long quest. She defeats the region's eight Gym Leaders , puts the newly reborn Team Rocket back into the dirt, and eventually becomes the Champion by taking Lance's title away from him again. She also beats back the red-haired boy from before numerous times and teaches him to change for the better.
After taking Lance's place, Lyra rides on a luxurious ferry called the S.S. Aqua and arrives in Kanto. Now starting a second journey (this time across the region of Red's birth), Lyra teaches the eight Gym Leaders of Kanto the humiliation of defeat once more after Red had done so three years prior. Recognizing her power, Professor Oak then allows Lyra to travel to Mt. Silver . There, she finds Red (who had been missing for a very long time) standing in the middle of a freezing blizzard. Shivering in her little shoes and thin socks, Lyra challenges the boy of few words to a battle and eventually ends his winning streak.
Lyra's journey doesn't end there, however. She still has the Pokéathlon, Sinjoh Ruins , and numerous other challenges to face, including a rematch with Red. She can also later receive a Starter Pokémon from Steven Stone , being given a choice between Torchic , Mudkip , and Treecko .
As an NPC, Lyra lives in New Bark Town with her Marill . She greatly respects the player and assists them with things, including teaching them how to capture Pokémon. She also stands up for them during the chaotic scene in Elm's lab, declaring the player character to be innocent of any wrongdoing. Later, when the player character meets the Day-Care Couple (Lyra's grandparents), she shows up and talks for a bit. When Lyra's grandmother teases her about having a boy as a friend, Lyra gets very embarrassed, saying that the player character just lives nearby. She then turns to leave, but she remembers to give the player character her Pokégear number at the last minute. She then glares at her grandmother and tells her not to say anything (since Trainers are supposed to exchange numbers) before speeding off.
Later, in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver's Special Celebi Event, NPC Lyra accompanies the player character. When Celebi uses its time-traveling abilities, Lyra is caught in the middle and gets dragged along with them. Now stuck with the player character, Lyra witnesses Giovanni having an argument with the red-haired boy from earlier. (She is also present when the player character battles Giovanni himself.) Eventually, Lyra starts to feel sick and complains about it, begging for Celebi to stop messing with time. When Celebi eventually stops, Lyra finds her Marill (which she had been sorely missing) and is overjoyed to discover that she has returned to her time. She then compliments the player, saying that they "never cease to inspire great adventures," and heads home.
The Generation III games deviated from the tradition of naming characters as their respective games, such as Red from Generation I and Generation II games. As such, May's counterparts includes May from the anime, May from Pokémon Masters and Sapphire from the Adventures manga.
May is a slender young girl with fair skin and long, thick mousy brown hair with thick side tails, and with a side fringe falling across her forehead. Her eyes are blue (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald) or gray-blue (Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire) depending on the games she appears in. Her outfit is the same way, as it also varies from game to game.
May wears a red shirt with a blue semi-circle on it, blue lycra shorts with a white mini-skirt over them, black ankle socks, red and yellow sneakers, blue and white gloves, and a red bandanna with a white logo. She also wears a yellow fanny pack for storage.
May wears a variation of her Ruby and Sapphire outfit. Her outfit consists of a sleeveless orange tunic with a white stripe (along with two white pockets and a black collar), black lycra shorts, black ankle socks, white, black, and orange slip-on shoes, black and white gloves with green and black wristbands, and a green bandanna with a white logo. She also has her fanny pack from Ruby and Sapphire, although it is now green.
May wears a red and white headband with a bow that resembles rabbit ears, a scarlet tank top with a black undershirt, white short shorts with black lycra mini-leggings underneath, yellow and black sneakers with orange soles, and ankle-length red and white socks (although they are usually hidden and no official art shows them, May's socks can be seen when she removes her sneakers in traditional Japanese buildings in Hoenn, including Norman 's Gym). She also wears a yellow and green fanny pack and keeps a Mega Bracelet on her left wrist. Her hair is also slightly longer and has a short ponytail in the bottom back, in addition to being almost golden-brown instead of light brown.
When she partakes in Contests, May wears a unique outfit that exudes femininity and cuteness (in fact, her outfit is almost the exact same as the "cute" variant of Cosplay Pikachu). Her outfit consists of a white button-up halter neck top with frilly-ended white elbow length sleeves and a pink bow on the front, a pink, purple, and sparkly white ballerina-style tutu, pink and cream frilly shorts, a yellow wrist bracelet with a heart-shaped charm on it that holds her Key Stone, and a small pink hair bow with a shiny pink gemstone. On her feet, she wears cerise pink kitten heels with pink ribbons winding up her legs to her knees.
Concept artwork of May's emotions for Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire .
As a rival, May is a sweet, cheerful, kind-hearted, friendly, and humble person. She is kind and respectful to the player, and is more passive than most rivals. She is a good trainer to her Pokémon.
As the player character, like any player character, May is filled in with the personality and characteristics of the player playing as her, down to having the same name and favorite activities.
May was born in Johto. She moved to Littleroot Town in the region of Hoenn . Her father is Norman , The Petalburg Gym Leader. May's mom's name is unknown but she is just called Mom in the games. May's rival and friend, Brendan , is the son of Professor Birch . Although if you are a boy and choose Brendan as your character all the above information will apply to Brendan, and his rival will be May.
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , May returns as the female protagonist.
If the player chose:
Brendan is a tall, thin boy with black (or very dark brown) hair which is covered by a white beanie and pale skin. In the remakes, he gains a slight tan. His eyes are brown R S E / grey-blue OR AS
In the Generation III games, he wears a black headband with a red Poké Ball pattern. He sports a long-sleeved red and black sweater and black shorts over baggy black trousers with yellow cuffs at the bottom. His sneakers are also red and black, matching his outfit. Around his neck he sports a gold band with a round white circle in the center, and on his hands he wears yellow and blue fingerless gloves.
In Emerald, his clothes have some green patches. He now wears a black and orange collared short sleeved shirt with a green backpack, orange fingerless gloves with black and green wristbands, a green headband, dark gray slim-fit long pants underneath with black and gray shorts, orange and green slip on running shoes with black soles and white stripes.
Concept artwork of Brendan for Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire .
His appearance changes slightly in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but has a somewhat similar color scheme to R/S. The style of his beanie is slightly different than it looked in the previous games, and he has grown his sideburns out, making them more prominent. He wears a skin-tight red and black T-shirt (with an odd zipper on the collar) and black and dark gray slim fit knee length shorts. He wears a green backpack, along with green and white slip-on sneakers. When inside traditional Japanese buildings in Hoenn, he wears black and white ankle socks. He has a Mega Bracelet on his left wrist. He now wears a black headband with a thin scarlet semi-circle.
Brendan wears a special outfit for his contests. It resembles the "Cool" outfit that Cosplay Pikachu wears. He does not wear his hat, exposing all of his hair with a few strands on his left side dyed red and yellow. He wears a red jacket with a silver trim on the right shoulder. Underneath his jacket, he has a green, black, and yellow shirt that shows some midruff. He has black pants with a red belt, and chain with a pendant hangs off the left side. He wears red boots with black straps.
As a rival, Brendan is a kind-hearted, friendly, and humble person. He is kind and respectful to the player, despite the fact that he is a rival. He is a good Trainer to his Pokémon.
In Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald , Brendan was born in Johto. At age 12, he moved to Littleroot Town in the region of Hoenn . His father is Norman , The Petalburg Gym Leader. Brendan's mom's name is unknown but she is just called Mom in the games. Brendan's rival and friend, May , is the daughter of Professor Birch . Although if you are a girl and choose May as your character all the above information will apply to May, and her rival will be Brendan.
In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, Brendan returns as the male protagonist.
If the player chose:
Dawn is a short young girl with a slender build, navy blue hair, fair skin, and blue-gray eyes. She is usually seen wearing a white beanie cap with a pink Poké Ball design on it. She has a pink Pokétch on her left arm.
Dawn wears a V-neck black mini sweater dress with a very short pink skirt at the bottom, a white blouse underneath, a red scarf, gold hair clips, black knee high socks, pink boots, and a yellow bag.
Concept artwork of Dawn for Platinum .
Dawn wears an outfit slightly more suitable for the colder weather in Sinnoh: she wears a red overcoat with multiple pink buttons on it, a white scarf, and a white bag. She also wears white knee length socks instead of black ones, pink hair clips instead of gold ones, and lighter colored pink boots with white buttons.
Dawn's appearance remains the same as in Diamond and Pearl . However, her appearance can also be customized.
While the player character's version of Dawn shows no personality, the NPC version of Dawn is kind and sweet, and greatly respects Professor Rowan. However, she can also have a bit of a temper, though it's mostly towards Team Galactic.
Dawn's Japanese and English names (Hikari and Dawn) both refer to types of light. Hikari is the general term for light and reflections, while dawn refers to the light during sunrise.
As the player character, Dawn's adventure starts off differently depending on which game is being played. In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version , Dawn starts the game in Twinleaf Town . When her rival drags her along to Lake Verity , she is attacked by a wild Starly , forcing her to choose a first partner Pokémon in Professor Rowan 's briefcase to defend herself. In Pokémon Platinum Version , Dawn recklessly tries to visit Professor Rowan himself by going through tall grass without a Pokémon of her own. After being scolded by the professor , Dawn's rival eventually steps up and says to give a Pokémon to her only, impressing the professor enough to give them both a Pokémon. The rest of Dawn's adventure more or less proceeds the same in each game. After picking a Starter Pokémon and being given a Pokédex, Dawn travels throughout the Sinnoh region. She defeats the Gym Leaders and earns their Gym Badges , and stops Team Galactic 's efforts to destroy the universe.
As an NPC, Dawn lives in Sandgem Town with her father, grandfather, and her younger sister. She works as Professor Rowan's assistant and acts as the capture tutor of the game. Her first partner Pokémon is always the one of the more vulnerable type to the player's. Later on, Dawn gets accosted by Team Galactic, and the player must help her. Unlike the player character's rival, Dawn does not battle Lucas.
In Pokémon Platinum Version only, if Dawn is the non-playable character, she might travel to the Resort Area and pay a visit the player character's Villa . There, she talks about furniture and her being envious of the player, since she still has to share a bedroom with her sister). She also dreams about being with a "special someone," and asks the player to let her rest in the Villa due to running into so many Pokémon in the Battle Zone .
Dawn does not appear in Pokémon Legends: Arceus , but it introduces her probable ancestor, Akari , who resembles her strongly.
If you choose:
Serena is a fair-skinned, average height teenage girl with blue eyes, long legs and a narrow, slender frame. Serena has long honey blonde hair with her front streaks of hair being waist-length while the hair at her back is longer in a loosely tied ponytail, if it wasn’t tied in a ponytail it would most likely be hip length. She wears a dark pink hat with a black band and a pair of white sunglasses on top. Her dress is a black sleeveless high waisted outfit. The skirt is red pleated with 7 sections on the front and back with large pockets. Serena wears charcoal black thigh length socks and black high top shoes with pink pokéball-shaped logos on the outer sides. She also keeps a Mega Ring on her left wrist, and carries a pink handbag with black decals on it over her right shoulder.
If chosen as the player character, Serena's appearance can be customized during the game. If not chosen, the NPC version of Serena wears her hair in a ponytail and does not wear a hat.
While Serena doesn't express any verbal dialogue as the player character, she does display varied emotions (a feature that the first four games of the next generation would almost completely lack). For example, she can be seen expressing shock, joy, and determination, though most of it can only be seen after battles.
As the rival, however, Serena has a much more visible personality, being mostly friendly and nice. However, while she's friendly and readily helps people in need, she's also competitive and prone to getting disappointed when being defeated in battles.
Serena discovering Yveltal
Serena asking to battle with everyone.
Serena's biography changes depending on if she is the player character or not. If she is the player character, Serena moves into Vaniville Town at the start of the games, where she quickly makes a load of new friends.
If she is the rival, Serena already lives in the town. She greets the player character along with Shauna and teaches them how to catch Pokémon properly.
Serena joins the player character on Route 7 to have a Multi Battle against Tierno and Trevor .
Serena joins the player character in Glittering Cave to fight Team Flare in a Multi Battle. She uses the following team:
Serena joins the player character in a Multi Battle against Bryony and Celosia .
Here, the player character can battle Serena all the times they want, but only once per day.
Concept art of Cynthia's design
Cynthia is a tall and slender young woman with gray eyes and wavy knee-length creamy blonde fringe hair that covers her left eye with bangs. She wears black straight leg trousers, a long black coat with a V-shaped neck and black fur rimming its cuffs and hem, and a teardrop shaped pearl on the center of the coat. Under the coat, she dons a black top. Cynthia's outfit is finished with black kitten heel pumps possessing each a yellow stripe. For accessories, she wears a black fur ruff around her neck with two pairs of hair clips on each side of her hair, both teardrop shaped and possessing a yellow stripe.
Cynthia is a passionate and humble Trainer who takes Pokémon battles very seriously. She is also seen to be a kind person who so deeply cares for both Pokémon and her friends that she helps out Trainers who look up to her and gives them tips on their journeys.
She tends to enjoy relaxation and travel, visiting the villas owned by Unova Elite Four member Caitlin and the player character found in that region, and in Sinnoh's Battle Zone respectively. In Pokémon Platinum Version , she expresses that part of the reason for this is that she is usually a messy person, and has research papers thrown around the house. Cynthia, as suggested by her theme song, also enjoys the piano, claiming that she enjoys the sound, listening to it with both her body and spirit.
Cynthia is fond of ice cream and is almost always seen eating it in Pokémon the Series . Outside of battle, she can be very airheaded and indecisive; Cynthia has even shown to have trouble deciding what type of ice cream to order.
Cynthia is one of the epithets for the Greek goddess Artemis and her Roman counterpart Diana, meaning "from Mount Cynthus" which is where Artemis was born, and is also an epithet for the moon. This association with the moon contrasts with Cyrus ' sun theme. Shirona, her Japanese name, comes from the Japanese name for white-fruited nandina. [1]
In Diamond and Pearl , Cynthia appears occasionally to help the player character with various obstacles. She is also seen investigating various sites related to Legendary Pokémon out of curiosity. Her final appearance in the game is as the Champion.
Cynthia in the Sinnoh Pokemon League 's Champion room from Pokémon Platinum Version
In Pokémon Platinum , Cynthia encounters the player character several times throughout the story like in its predecessors, and is interested in aiding the player character in filling the Pokédex. Most notably, she appears in Mt. Coronet in Cyrus ' end of the world and assists the player character through the Distortion World until the battle with Giratina . Her final appearance in the main story is as the Champion.
In Pokémon HeartGold a nd SoulSilver , Cynthia can be seen standing inside a log cabin in the Sinjoh Ruins , an event‐exclusive area that can be unlocked only by placing Arceus in front of the party and entering the Ruins Research Center in the Ruins of Alph.
In Pokémon Black and White , Cynthia is battled, and can be re-fought, in Undella Town in the summer. In its sequel Pokémon Black 2 and Pokémon White 2 , she can also be battled at the same area in the spring. After losing to the player, she will reveal that she was reminded of the Trainer who captured Giratina ( Lucas / Dawn ).
Cynthia's battles in these installments are entirely optional and are not required to complete the game. However, due to her team's very high levels being the Champion of Sinnoh, especially in Challenge Mode for the latter (over 75), it's not recommended to face her until after completing the main storyline.
In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 , she also makes an appearance in the Pokémon World Tournament in the Champion League. She is the only female who participates, with Iris excluded.
In Pokémon Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon , Cynthia appears in Alola's Battle Tree as an opponent that the player can battle and subsequently recruit.
Cynthia taking a selfie with Iris and Diantha in Pokémon Journeys: The Series
Congratulations to you! And thank you... I had wanted to learn how you feel about this world, what kinds of ideals you have developed with your Pokémon... I feel I was able to find the answer in our battle. The feelings you have for your Pokémon... And the way that your Pokémon gave their all in battle in response to those feelings... Those two together created a great power. That is how you seized victory today.
Steven Stone is a character in the Pokémon franchise . He is the Pokémon Champion of the Pokémon League in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version who specializes in Steel - type Pokémon. He was not the champion in Pokémon Emerald Version , but still a strong Pokémon Trainer whom the player could face after beating the game. He seeks the secret of Mega Evolution and returned as the Champion again in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire .
Steven is a tall, thin young man with ice-blue hair and eyes.
Steven wears a white undershirt with a black overcoat that has purple zig-zag streaks going down along with a red tie. On the ends of his sleeves he has silver cuffs. He also wears black pants with dark-purple dress shoes.
Concept art of Steven Stone in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire.
Steven wears a charcoal jacket with two black zig-zag stripes, a white undershirt and a red tie. Steven wears skinny black pants and black shoes with low heels, as well as metallic jewellery on both of his sleeves and his index and ring fingers. He has a pin on his jacket, called the Mega Stickpin, which holds his Key Stone for Mega Evolving his Metagross.
Steven Stone is a young man who enjoys collecting various rocks and stones around the world. His favorite Pokémon is Beldum . He is extraordinarily skilled at Pokémon battles. Steven maintains a humble attitude; he does not like to brag and is generally a quiet and solitary person. Steven is also wise, knowledgeable, and very kind and generous. Steven gives various helpful tips and items to the player.
His Japanese name, Daigo Tsuwabuki, has a first name which is literally the given name Daigo (with the choice to use it for his name possibly involving デイゴ ( deigo , Indian coral tree )) and his surname likely comes from 石蕗 (tsuwabuki, leopard plant , which contains the kanji for rock), and possibly also 武器 (buki, weapon).
His English name, Steven Stone, contains a first name, "Steven", derived from the name "Stephen", which originated from the name Greek name "Stephanos", meaning "crown". It's very similar to the word "stone" that is his literal surname. His first names first syllable also resembles "steel".
The player first meeting Steven in the Granite Cave in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version
Steven is the son of Mr. Stone , the creator of the PokéNav and the President of the Devon Corporation . Steven is found throughout the game, giving items and tips to the player, which Cynthia would similarly do in the Generation IV games.
The player first encounters Steven in the Granite Cave , where he can be given a letter from his father. Upon receiving the letter, Steven gifts the player with a Steel Wing .
The player has a minor encounter with Steven at Route 118 , where he asks the player if they specialize in raising Pokémon of a certain type . Steven apologizes for asking, believing it is not his position to do so, and leaves.
At Route 120 , Steven gives the player the Devon Scope so that they can see invisible Kecleons on the overworld and either fight or bypass them.
The player can go to Steven's house, located in his hometown of Mossdeep City , to receive another item from him: HM08 ( Dive ).
Shortly after Groudon (in Ruby ) or Kyogre (in Sapphire ) is awoken in Seafloor Cavern and the player leaves, one of Steven's Pokémon flies him to the player. He states the urgency of the extreme weather caused by Groudon/Kyogre and the threat it poses to Hoenn and the world at large. Steven then hints to the player to drop by Sootopolis City before being flown off again.
When the player goes to Sootopolis City and walks their way up a cliff, they find Steven and his friend Wallace together. The player is taken by Wallace to the entrance of the Cave of Origin , while Steven follows behind closely. The two of them give the player their permission to Cave of Origin, a location that is otherwise off-limits.
It is not until the Pokémon League where Steven reveals himself to be the Champion. As such, the player battles Steven after defeating the Elite Four , and when Steven is defeated, he inducts the player into the Hall of Fame .
Following their introduction into the Hall of Fame, the player can find a level 5 Beldum in Steven's house. It is contained inside of a Poké Ball on a desk with a note, where Steven addresses the player, stating that he is out training and will not return home for a while, and asks them for a favor by entrusting them with the Beldum.
Steven partnering with the player in a Multi Battle against Maxie and Tabitha in Pokémon Emerald Version
Steven Stone's role is different. He is no longer the champion of the Pokémon League , a role now taken by Wallace . Steven is otherwise encountered in the same ways as before, this time with two additional encounters.
At the Mossdeep Space Center , Steven joins the player in a Multi Battle against Team Magma leaders Maxie and Tabitha .
After the player becomes the newest champion of the Pokémon League, an area opens in Meteor Falls where the player can engage in a Pokémon battle against Steven. His Pokémon are all about twenty levels stronger than in the previous games. After being defeated, Steven cannot be fought again.
Steven is alluded to when the player is told that the villa he receives in the Resort Area was previously owned by a character who collects rare stones.
The player's first meeting with Steven in Silph Co. in Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version
Steven is first seen in Vermilion City after the player obtains the Lost Item in the Pokémon Fan Club . He introduces himself as the Champion of the Hoenn region (consistent with Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version ) and tells them that Latias (in HeartGold ) or Latios (in SoulSilver ) has been roaming the Kanto region despite appearing in Hoenn otherwise. Steven believes that the Soul Dew is the reason behind it. Steven then says that he has to go, hoping that they cross paths again.
The player can meet Steven a second time in the Silph Co. building after they defeat Red . He notices that the player has a Pokédex and therefore their search for Pokémon. Steven asks the player if they want either the Red Stone, Blue Stone, or Green Stone; with their selection, the player also receives one of the Hoenn starter Pokémon : Treecko if they picked the Green Stone; Torchic for the Red Stone; and Mudkip for the Blue Stone. Later, after encountering Steven in the Pewter Museum (where Steven only comments that the shining stars of the night sky are the only stones he cannot know about), the player can return to Silph Co. to trade a Forretress to Steven in exchange for a Beldum .
If the player has the Enigma Stone , they can find Steven in the Pewter Museum again.
Steven can be battled at the Pokémon World Tournament in the Champions Tournament , along with the other Pokémon Champions throughout the core series .
Steven's appearance in the Granite Cave in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire
Steven is looking for the secret of Mega Evolution with his Mega Metagross . Likewise, Steven performs all the actions he did in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version , including the instructions that he provides to the player. A major additional event was added where Steven a appears after the Trainer defeats Mauville City Gym Leader Wattson to activate the Latios/Latias event, where they visit Southern Island together.
At Route 120, Steven gives the player not only the Devon Scope but also the Mega Stone .
Steven teams up with the player in various battles in the game, including the battle in the Mossdeep Space Center in the Delta Episode . He can also be teamed up with to play through the Double Battle section of the Battle Resort . Steven always uses the same two Pokémon when teamed up with.
In one of his quotes at Devon Corporation , Steven reveals that he is 25 years old.
Unlike the original games, the player can only obtain a Beldum from Steven's house after completing the Delta Episode.
…It's over. But it's an odd feeling. I'm not angry that I lost. In fact, I feel happy. Happy that I witnessed the rise of a great new Champion!
Lance is a recurring character in Pokémon . He is a user of Dragon types , and stands as the final Elite Four member in Red, Blue and their remakes .
In Pokémon Gold, Silver, Crystal and their remakes , he stands as the Champion of the Pokémon League.
Lance is a tall, thin man with bright scarlet red spiked hair, pale skin, and dark eyes.
Lance's appearance remains the same as it is in Red, Green and Blue .
He wears a medieval-looking navy blue tunic with red-orange trim, a brown belt around his waist, and large black boots with orange two rings around the top of each boot. The cuffs of his long sleeves are black with orange zigzagging trim separating the cuff from the navy blue part of the sleeve. He sports a long, flowing cape around his neck which is black on the outside and crimson red on the inside.
Lance's appearance remains the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
Lance has blue eyes and wears a blue suit with orange color around his sleeves and on the chest area. He also wears a dark belt around his waist, some brown boots with orange heels, and a brown cloak, which is red on the inside.
Lance's appearance remains the same as it is in HeartGold and SoulSilver .
Lance's attire is noticeably more casual than his previous outfits. He now wears a black shirt with a blue logo in the shape of a dragon on the front, with an open red jacket over it, and sports dark gray colored pants and brown boots. His cape lacks a high collar, is blue with gold trim at both the top and outside and gray on the inside.
Lance is a very noble and respectful person. He is serious about his training and will not hold back his strength when it comes to battling any challengers. He is an expert at training Dragon-Pokémon, and is extremely skilled at battling. He believes that his inner-strength lies in his ability to professionally train Dragons, and he believes deeply in his Pokémon, that they are strong and superior. Despite this, he is a good sport, and will not become angry if he loses to the player character, but will instead gracefully accept defeat, and will happily congratulate them on defeating the Elite Four and becoming the new Champion.
The name "Lance" is literally "lance", a weapon often used by knights, who are, in turn, often associated with fantasy and thus dragons.
His Japanese name, Wataru, comes from 渡る (wataru, an uncommon way of saying "to end" in Japanese, as he's the final Elite Four member in Generations I, III, and VII and the Champion in Generations II and IV). It may also come from Watatsumi , a dragon-like god in Shintoism. Following the plant-based naming of most characters, it could also come from 綿 (wata, the Japanese name for cotton).
Lance is a member of the Elite Four in the Kanto region and is fought just before the player character fights their rival who is the new Pokemon League Champion.
His role in Yellow is the same as it is in Red, Green and Blue .
It is revealed that Lance has a cousin named Clair , who is the Blackthorn City Gym Leader , and who also specializes in using Dragon-type Pokémon.
In the two years between Red, Green and Blue and Gold and Silver , he became the Champion of the Johto region , presumably replacing Red who had stepped down.
At the Lake of Rage in Johto, the player character meets Lance after the battle against the Red Gyarados with Lance introducing himself to them and enlisting the player character's help in investigating a strange signal coming from a shop in Mahogany Town. After the player's arrived at the shop, they will find Lance ordering one of his Dragonite to use Hyper Beam on an associate before recalling Dragonite with Lance then heading over and revealing a trap that brings the two of them down to Team Rocket's HQ.
During the incident to stop Team Rocket in Mahogany Town, Lance meets Silver who challenges him to a battle but Lance proceeds to easily defeat Silver before berating him for his way of treating Pokemon, Lance even voicing his belief that Silver doesn't believe or trust in his Pokemon, something that has Silver outraged and coming to regard Lance as "a bleeding heart".
Once the Team Rocket Grunts and Admins have all been beaten and ultimately fled their HQ with the Electrode who were powering the machine being used to sent the signal all being knocked out in the process, Lance congratulates the player character and gives them HM06 which contains the Water-type attack, Whirlpool and reveals it can't be used without the badge from the Mahogany Town Pokemon Gym.
His role in Crystal is the same as it is in Gold and Silver .
Lance is the 4th member of the Indigo Pokémon League , and can perform attacks with his Dragon type Pokémon.
In HeartGold and SoulSilver , he and Clair will fight a double battle against the player character and their rival which takes place at the Dragon's Den in Blackthorn City.
In Black 2 and White 2 , Lance makes an appearance in the Champion Tournament in the Pokémon World Tournament , having a full team of his signature type, Dragon.
Lance is still the fourth member of the Elite Four of Kanto.
Nemona has a lively and athletic appearance that perfectly complements her energetic and competitive nature. She has tan skin and expressive golden-brown eyes that sparkle with enthusiasm, framed by bold eyebrows and often lit up with a confident smile. Her long, straight black hair is tied into a high ponytail with a green headband, giving her a sporty, ready-for-action look. She has a lean, toned build and stands with a strong, upright posture, radiating confidence and determination. Her facial features are youthful and dynamic, reflecting her spirited personality and unyielding drive to improve as a Trainer and take on new challenges headfirst.
Nemona's clothing reflects her role as a student and skilled Trainer, blending athletic practicality with a school-themed design. She wears a light blue short-sleeved button-up shirt with a school emblem on the sleeve, paired with an orange necktie that adds a pop of color and signals her affiliation with the academy. Her shorts are bright orange and slightly baggy, offering comfort and ease of movement—ideal for someone as active as she is. Underneath, she wears black compression leggings that enhance her sporty look and suggest readiness for physical activity.
She accessorizes with pink-and-white sneakers for mobility, fingerless pink gloves that hint at her battle enthusiasm, and a blue belt with a Poké Ball pouch, signaling her preparedness at all times. A digital wrist device and a green headband complete the outfit, adding to her tech-savvy, on-the-go vibe. Altogether, Nemona's outfit is functional, energetic, and true to her identity as both a dedicated student and passionate Pokémon Trainer.
Nemona's personality is energetic, passionate, and fiercely competitive, making her one of the most enthusiastic of rivals. She absolutely loves battling and is always eager to challenge others, often with a cheerful intensity that borders on overwhelming for more laid-back Trainers. Despite already being an experienced and high-ranking Champion-level Trainer, she's incredibly supportive and encouraging—especially toward the player—often offering advice, motivation, and genuine excitement over their growth.
Her upbeat, can-do attitude is matched by a tireless work ethic and a deep love for Pokémon battles, which she sees as a way to connect and grow stronger with others. While her enthusiasm can come off as intense, Nemona is kind-hearted, loyal, and never looks down on less experienced Trainers. Instead, she thrives on seeing others improve and welcomes every fight as a chance for mutual progress. Overall, Nemona is a spirited and friendly rival whose boundless energy and competitive drive make her a standout character.
Nemona is one of the top ranked trainers in Paldea, having become a Champion during a previous Treasure Hunt, making her the youngest trainer to ever pass the Champion Assessment. She comes from a rich family; her father is the CEO for the Rotom Phone company, and she has an older sister whom will one day inherit the company.
Nemona first encounters the player at her house as their neighbor. She then decides to receive her own First partner Pokémon , due to skipping on picking one back when she was enrolled into the academy. She then challenges the player to a battle. After the test battle, Nemona takes the player to Mesagoza , while also explaining to them about Pokémon Centers .
Later, Nemona battles the player again to test if they have gotten stronger. She then grants the player a Tera Orb when they are accosted by Team Star Grunts . After introducing the player around the campus, the player can find her in the teachers' office to unlock the Victory Road challenge. She will then pops up to challenge the player now and then just to compel them on acknowledging her status as their rival. She will eventually fight against the player with an all-out battle after Victory Road challenge is completed.
Nemona will later join the player, Arven , Penny , and Koraidon / Miraidon to the Great Crater of Paldea , where she will assist the player on exploring Area Zero. She will also support the player and Koraidon/Miraidon's battle against Koraidon'/Miraidon's stronger counterpart.
Nemona is also the one who suggests holding the Academy Ace Tournament , even inviting Geeta to join the said tournament. However, she is unable to join the first round due to her role as the Student Council President, though she will participate in following tournaments. Post-tournament, the player can also start visiting her dorm room after conversing with her at the stationery store and canteen.
After the events of The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero , Nemona joins the player, Arven, and Penny to Kitakami , after the player receives a letter from Kieran when their three friends are visiting their house. She then defeats Kieran effortlessly during a battle she initiates for him. She then witnesses Carmine performing strange dances, but then disappears after giving her friends the drinks she bought from the grocery store. It is later revealed that she ate a mochi that was a trap set by Pecharunt , who then starts puppeteering her for its amusement. The player and Kieran then find out that Nemona, who has been possessed by Pecharunt, is at the Loyalty Plaza , where the player battles her while Kieran is buying the player time from the swarms of other victims. She is restored to normal after the player defeats and captures Pecharunt.
It is later revealed that before the player and their friends leave Kitakami, Nemona dragged Carmine and Kieran into battling her for almost ten times.
Nemona can be invited as a special tutor through 200 Battle Points at the Blueberry Academy after the player has completed the DLC content.
This occurs before obtaining the third Gym Badge.
This occurs before obtaining the fifth Gym Badge.
This occurs before obtaining the seventh Gym Badge.
This occurs after defeating Geeta. This is also the last battle of the Victory Road storyline.
Lillie is a character first appearing in Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon . She is Professor Kukui 's mysterious assistant.
Lillie is a young girl with green eyes and platinum blond hair, with two braids at each side of her face. She wears a large white hat, with a blue ribbon around it. Lillie wears a white dress with transparent outlines, a pair of long socks and white shoes resembling ballet flats. She also carries a round bag with a Poké Ball design on both sides. As later revealed, Lusamine made the choice of Lillie's dress for her, likely with the intent of resembling a Nihilego given her obsession with that species of Ultra Beast .
After realizing her mother is too far gone to listen to reason, she temporarily changes her outfit to a white sailor-like shirt with a blue ribbon and a very short white miniskirt with a light blue line. She stops wearing her hat, instead restyling her hair as a ponytail tied together with a braid. She also wears a pink backpack with a white ribbon and white penny loafers with white ankle socks.
Lillie is a mysterious girl who assists the professor for personal reasons. She's not fond of making Pokémon fight in battles, but she loves reading and has devoured many books. Lillie was revealed to have taken a Cosmog from her mother, and along with Kukui and Burnet are studying the Cosmog and its secrets.
Lillie loves to shop and read books. When she is traveling with the player character, she is usually exclaiming to do some shopping of her own, and in cities would tell the player character that she got lost and ended up buying outfits in a shop. Lillie is always getting lost, and the player character has to help her. This happens usually because Lillie is trying to avoid Team Skull grunts, as she is not a trainer, and ended up going in the wrong directions trying to get away from them.
Lillie originally had a close relationship with her mother, as she mentioned sleeping in Lusamine's bed as a child. However, over time, Lusamine started becoming insane and grew even madder when Gladion escaped Aether Foundation two years before the story begins. She became unbearable to Lillie, so she left as well. When the player character and Lillie meet Lusamine in Ultra Space, she gets the courage to yell at Lusamine for being terrible for trying to control her and stating that "children are not just things that belong to their parents". After Lusamine gets separated from Nihilego, she regains some of her sanity back and touches Lillie's cheek. Lillie eventually decides to travel to Kanto to find Bill so that he may give her the cure for Nihilego's poison. Lillie also decides to go to Kanto to become a true Pokémon Trainer so that she may earn badges and meet and catch lots of wonderful Pokémon.
The name Lillie originates from "lily" as her white dress resembles the white petals of a lily flower as well as the name following the plant-based naming of characters.
Lillie can be found near the Ten Carat Hill entrance on Saturday evenings staring at the night sky with something in her bag.
Lillie at the bridge
Lillie is first seen in the intro of the game three months before the story takes place, fleeing from Aether Paradise. She is cornered by three employees, but Cosmog teleported them out of the paradise. She is found by Professor Burnet at the beach and she tells her husband. Professor Kukui took her in and gave her a place to stay.
Three months later, Lillie is encountered going to the Ruins of Conflict. Cosmog escaped her bag and she gets worried. The Cosmog, nicknamed Nebby, is suddenly attacked by three Spearow and then the player character arrives. She gives the player character the task of saving Cosmog. While protecting Nebby, the bridge broke and Tapu Koko saved the player character. She thanked the player character and asked if they can lead her down because she is not a trainer. She then introduced herself as the assistant of Professor Kukui. When they both get back to town, Lillie told Hala and Kukui what had happened and the player character gets to choose their starter Pokémon.
Once the player character defeats the Elite Four, and at the Festival, Lillie asks the player character to sneak to the Ruins of Conflict with them to thank Tapu Koko for saving the player character. After the player character battled Tapu Koko, they both head back to the Festival. The next scene showed Hau running into the player character's house and telling him/her that something is a disaster. The player character and Hau arrive at the dock to learn that Lillie is leaving for the Kanto region to help her mother and to become a real Pokémon trainer and meet lots of different Pokémon of the Kanto region. The player character and Professor Kukui wave goodbye as Lillie sailed off. However, Hau is still upset Lillie left. During the credits, it is revealed that the main characters of the story have sent Lillie a package with photos of daily life in Alola and a letter, along with an Island Trial charm. Lillie is grateful for the package and says how everyone's smiles led her to Kanto. Another cut scene showed the opened package with a picture of the player character, Lillie, and Hau together when Rotom took their picture on their way to Hau'oli City.
Lillie's role in USUM is very similar to her role in the original games. However, after Nebby evolves, it fuses with Necrozma and escapes through the Ultra Wormhole after being defeated by the player character. Lillie becomes a trainer, but she cannot be challenged in any point of the game, she's just an ally in Multi Battles.
After the player character becomes the Champion and resolves the Team Rainbow Rocket invasion at the Festival Plaza, Lillie appears at the player character's house and asks them to go to Aether Paradise with her to find out what happened after an Ultra Wormhole suddenly appeared. During the interview with Lusamine, after Wicke says that Team Rainbow Rocket dominated Aether Paradise, the player character and Lillie battle Faba and an Employee in a Multi Battle.
After the Team Rainbow Rocket episode, in Kukui's house, Lillie asks the player character that she wants to be their partner at Battle Tree.
Jessica , [1] better known as Jessie ( Japanese:ムサシ , Musashi ? ) , is a very well known member of Team Rocket . Jessie functions as the Team Rocket trio 's confident leader, who allows them the freedom to have side jobs and hobbies, and doesn't flinch when lying to their boss' face.
As revealed in Training Daze , James is Jessie's partner. The two have a long-standing rivalry with their rivals, Butch and Cassidy , though Jessie is more passionate about hating her counterpart than James.
Concept artwork of Jessie.
Jessie has very long magenta hair that she wears curled in a comet-tail behind her head. She typically wears a pair of large green pearl earrings that have become a staple signature part of her look and is never seen without them, even in disguise.
From the opening in Johto Journeys and onwards, Jessie's hair is changed from red to magenta.
Jessie usually wears a customized Team Rocket uniform of her own design. consisting of a short black crop top that exposes her midriff and belly button under a short-sleeve white high collared crop top emblazoned with a large red R that team rocket is known for, a short white miniskirt, grey high-heeled thigh-high boots, and shoulder-length grey gloves.
When a wild Scyther and its swarm attacked them, it manages to slash Jessie's long hair which is now styled into a shoulder-length hairdo like James in Tracey Gets Bugged . But in A Tail with a Twist when a wild Seviper manages to bite her hair, it was ripped off and her hair becomes medium length. All these hairstyles made Jessie furious with each of the Pokémon that accidentally cut her long hair.
As Jessilina, one of her more common disguises, she wears an orange sleeveless dress that resembles an apron with yellow frills in each side along with two pockets in the sides of her puffy dress and brown cowboy boots. Underneath, she wears a white long sleeve button shirt with a dark blue laced ribbon on the collar. Her long hair is tied in low pigtails. she also wears yellow thick glasses. This disguise is usually worn when she's competing in contests with her Dustox. Later on in the series, her dress was changed to pink and she also wears a half white apron.
In the events of , after she was promoted to Advanced Agent, Jessie's Team Rocket uniform is now charcoal gray before it changes back to the original white after Battling with the Love of Bug-Types! . In an attempt to hide the fact that she was from Team Rocket, she wears a dark purple trenchcoat, matching sunglasses and a fedora hat to conceal herself. However, the trenchcoat is too long, so she usually ends up wearing it with James being the one walking and her being the one on top, sitting on James's shoulders.
In the XY series, her disguises have her wearing a long and pale blue sleeved v-neck jacket with a purple belt tucked on her jacket, a white long-sleeved button shirt underneath, a white ribbon on the collar, white pants, and matching purple heels. she wears a white hat to make her hair seem shorter and sunglasses. Her sunglasses are also used as her headband while wearing her hat.
As Jessilie, one of her first disguises, she wears long-sleeved gowns in different shades of purple with dark purple linings. The saggy skirt is long enough to reach her feet. She also wears a large, light pink ribbon at the back of her dress with its sash hanging loose on each side and a white and fluffy extended collar on her dress. She also wears purple high heels, a necklace with a pink diamond pendant on her neck, and an emerald shaped earrings with gold outlines. Her hair is tied in a large bun with a sapphire shaped jewel with gold outlines at the center of her head.
Later when she registers for the Pokémon Showcase, she wears a very short-sleeved and dark magenta short dress, a red belt on her waist, and brown flats. Her hair is then tied in a normal bun and her half bangs are showing at the right side to cover her right eye while retaining her emerald shaped earrings with a pink round pendant necklace on her neck from her first outfit.
When she briefly works with Dr. White before she rejoins with James and Meowth as Jessilia, she wore an off-white long sleeve and loose button shirt with a pink shoal to cover her shoulders, blue denim shorts, and brown sandals. Her hair is tied in tangles while she is not seen wearing her lipstick and her green pearl-like earrings.
In Pokemon The Series: Sun and Moon , Jessie retained her appearance from the previous seasons while her magenta hair becomes more apparent than before. Sometimes, Jessie would wear her and James Z-Power Ring in order to perform a Z-move.
Her disguise where she, James, Meowth, and Wobbuffet arrived at the Alola region, retained her white pants, sandals, and hat from her initial disguise in the XY series while she replaced her jacket for a purple sleeveless midriff with pink flower designs as her light violet jacket was tied to make a scarf around her neck. Her brown belt on her white pants is fully exposed while it was concealed under her previous jacket.
In Mimikyu Unmasked! , while shopping, Jessie wears a light purple elaborate modern sleeveless gown with frill designs and purple heels. She also wears a summer hat on this occasion.
During the Alola league, Jessie tied her magenta hair into high pigtails and wears a black and pink cap on her head. She wears a white loose midriff with a black frilled loose tube top underneath, blue denim shorts with a white design in each thigh and a tattered design at the edge, and black flats. Jessie also wears black and pink sunglasses to conceal her eyes.
In the movie Pokémon the Movie: The Power of Us which is set in a completely different universe than the other films, both Jessie and James’ uniforms undergo minor cosmetic changes. In Jessie's case, her top becomes sleeveless and is cut slightly higher. Her black undershirt is also slightly shorter. Her skirt exposes slightly more of her belly button and she wears a purple belt with a silver belt buckle.
In , Jessie's appearance remains unchanged and her magenta hair appears in a glossy style.
As Jessie from the Alternate World in " The Gates of Warp! " to " Showdown at the Gates of Warp! ", she wears her charcoal gray Team Rocket uniform in Pokémon the Series: Black & White but equipped in a bluish gray Team Rocket armor, a silver robotic gauntlets and a matching greaves, resembling large gun holsters. Her black thigh-high boots are replaced with a bluish gray thigh-high armor boots to match up her armor to complete the entire outfit. Overall, the uniform she wears when she works within the Alternate World Team Rocket.
Jessie is the short-tempered member of the Team Rocket trio, having a tough streak as well as being vain and very prone to anger. When she steals someone else's belongings or Pokémon, she often says: "Your things are mine, my things are still mine." Proud and haughty, she is excessively self-confident and can’t help seeing herself as the most beautiful, the most talented, and the best in many areas. Due to her pride, she usually underestimates her opponents' strength, which is a cause for her own failure.
She also values her beauty and long hair; she will become furious if her face or her hair is damaged. A prime example is in Tracey Gets Bugged when a younger Scyther manages to slash her hair down to a shoulder-length, devastating her and sending her into a rage. Jessie also shows her violent outrage when someone insults her beauty by calling her old. Her anger also scares James and Meowth, especially when their missions end up in a failure.
Jessie has an affinity for snake-like Pokémon such as her Ekans who later evolved into Arbok and her Seviper. She also makes has a love of Poison-type Pokémon as seen in The Ninja Poke-Showdown! . In addition, she adored her Dustox, which she released in Crossing Paths! . Dratini and Smoochum are her favorite Pokémon too, so she'll try to steal any one of them if she sees one. Despite this, Jessie is shown to care about her Pokémon, proving that her method of training is merely an act of tough love.
She can sometimes be a hopeless romantic, although she is also aware of her own bad temper. So whenever she falls in love, she pretends to be a calm and delicate young woman to charm the person she likes, while she truly hates showing any sign of vulnerability. If she is moved or touched by an act of kindness, she usually pretends out of pride that it doesn't affect her at all.
Jessie also has a long-standing rivalry with Cassidy, another member of Team Rocket. Their rivalry is most pronounced in some episodes involving Cassidy and Butch, much like Ash's rivalry with Gary Oak. The episode Grating Spaces! , reveals that Jessie and James aren't allowed the same privileges as other Team Rocket members, thanks to their previous blunders. This means that they aren't given vacation days or extra Pokémon to assist them on missions. Later, in 'Sun and Moon,' Jessie despises the boss’s secretary: Matori, whom she nicknames 'Four-Eyes,' because she cannot stand her elite and superior status within the organization.
During the events in Pokémon: Black & White , Jessie's tough personality subsides due to her promotion to an Advanced Agent. She became more calm and collected, much more relaxed, and more like a true villain but maintains her mean streak when facing Ash and his friends. But after Operation Tempest is thwarted by Ash and the group she returns to her old personality.
In the XY series, Jessie is shown to be capable of showing love. As seen in one episode when she and her Wobbuffet were saved by Dr. White and his female Wobbuffet from drowning into a river, she falls in love with him, going so far as to work as his assistant in her Jessilia disguise. However, she dislikes rejection and shortly returned to James and Meowth after finding out that Dr. White liked someone else. She later throws away the bouquet of white flowers that she was planning on giving to Dr. White. This trait is also shown when she saw Steven Stone's photo in Sawyer's notebook and became love-struck upon seeing Steven himself.
Throughout the series, Jessie had several love interests besides Steven Stone and Doctor White. These included Doctor Proctor (episode 047), Cullen Calix (Mewtwo Returns), Freddy (movie 08), Astin (DP 074) and Olu Olu (SM028). We can also see other men or boys in her romantic flashbacks.
Jessie also loves popularity when she aspires to become a Kalos Queen and became popular with many people.
In Good Friends, Great Training! , Jessie has the same personality of Serena's Fennekin , when ever happens to her hair since she gets wet by Tierno's Wartortle , or the Rain Dance of Ash's Goodra , Jessie gets really mad.
In Mimikyu Unmasked! , Jessie can be a shopaholic and spent all of her team's money at a shopping mall. She also has a talent for sewing and used her skill to fix Mimikyu's costume.
Although she is shown to be very mean to her own Pokémon such as punching or shouting rudely at them, she does care for them. For example, she along with James and Meowth helped Arbok to escape with Weezing, and a group of Koffing and the Ekans, by taking hits from Rico 's Pokémon. She also let Dustox follow her true love by smashing Dustox's Poké Ball.
Jessie becomes less selfish and less harsh towards her teammates: James & Meowth as the series progresses. In 'Pokémon Journeys,' it is demonstrated several times that Jessie is a coach of 'self-confidence' for her teammates.
Jessie has various life skills, which often come in handy whenever she and her Team Rocket teammates need to earn money to build machines for their Pokémon-stealing missions.
Jessie has a leader’s temperament. She encourages and motivates her teammates. She is very confident and never gives up, no matter how difficult things become. Jessie is very agile and physically strong. When she gets angry, nothing can stand in her way.
Additionally, when Jessie does not cheat, she is very talented at performing in Pokémon Contests and Showcases.
Jessie seem to have been on good terms with her mother and was her source of inspiration to become a Team Rocket member.
Jessie and James.
James is one of Jessie's best friends as they get along pretty well and work great together as a team, although they do clash in their team work sometimes. James usually serves as Jessie's lackey, while Jessie serves as the leader of the duo. Jessie does sometimes butt heads with James, but they don't stay mad at each for long.
Jessie greatly hates Cassidy and can't stand her as they been rivals since their training days. Whenever they see each other, Jessie and Cassidy will always argue as they would show each other up no matter how much they accomplish for Team Rocket. Cassidy always calls Jessie a loser. However, their rivalry ended when Cassidy left Team Rocket.
Jessie has a dislike for Matori as she calls her nicknames and has to report to her sometimes. Although, unlike her rivalry with Cassidy, Jessie might have some respect for Matori.
Jessie and Meowth.
Meowth is one of Jessie's best friends as they're both teammates for Team Rocket. Despite their friendship, Jessie and Meowth do butt heads, but don't stay mad at each other for long.
Jessie and Arbok.
Jessie is very close with Arbok as she has known it since it was an Ekans. Also, Jessie would do anything to protect Arbok and it would do the same for her. However, Jessie released Arbok to be with its own kind. Despite being apart, Jessie knows her relationship with Arbok will always be with her.
Jessie and Lickitung.
Jessie first meet Lickitung during the princess festival as she quickly caught it when it was eating her stuff. Although, after a while, Jessie has come to like Lickitung and grown to care for it. However, Jessie accidentally traded Lickitung away. Despite the accidental trade, Jessie hopes for the best for Lickitung.
Jessie and Wobbuffet.
At first, Jessie didn't like Wobbuffet as she got annoyed with him whenever he would pop out of his PokéBall on his own. However, over time, Jessie has come to care for Wobbuffet as she developed a close bond with him. After bringing him back from Team Rocket HQ, Jessie has Wobbuffet hang out with her more outside his PokéBall.
Jessie and Seviper.
Despite their somewhat shaky start, Jessie easily got along with Seviper and used a lot in battle, similar to what she did with Arbok. Also, Jessie is very good friends with Seviper as they are both evenly tempered, she even helped get even with a Zangoose and battled with it till the end, even when James and Meowth told her to retreat. In addition, Jessie used Seviper in her contests as it single handily got her fourth ribbon in Sinnoh. However, after Sinnoh, Jessie left Seviper at Team Rocket HQ. Fortunately, Jessie reunited with Seviper as her boss gave it back to her.
Jessie and Dustox.
Seeing May trying to catch a Wurmple in order to raise it into a Beautifly, Jessie decided to catch one herself. After her attempts to steal May's newly caught one failed, Jessie got one of her very own when she sees her on the branch she alongside her teammates were on then caught her. Jessie raised her with love and care but she evolved into Cascoon instead of a Silcoon but she believed the opposite. However, Jessie realized her mistake when she evolved into Dustox. Despite the mistakes, Jessie was happy to have Dustox instead as she found her cute and quickly used her in contests. In Sinnoh, Jessie won her first ribbon when she used Dustox single handily. However, after seeing Dustox was in love, Jessie had her released to follow her heart. Even though they were apart, Jessie will always have a special place for Dustox no matter where she goes.
Jessie and Yanmega.
Jessie caught her as a Yanma, after someone else weakened her for her. Although she and her teammates send her to Team Rocket HQ, Jessie got her back but quickly evolved into Yanmega. Similar to her relationship with Dustox, Jessie has come to love Yanmega and she even got her second Sinnoh contest ribbon single handily. However, Jessie left Yanmega at Team Rocket HQ. Fortunately, Jessie got Yanmega back in her party by her boss as she was happy to see her again.
Jessie and Woobat.
Jessie quickly caught Woobat so she can have a Pokémon to battle with whenever she needed to. However, Jessie might have some care for Woobat, as she uses him a lot in Unova. Although, Jessie was forced to give Woobat to her boss to hide not doing anything else good in Unova. However, Jessie got Woobat back from her boss as he return it to her party.
Jessie and Frillish.
Jessie doesn't have much of a relationship with Frillish, Jessie had just caught it after returning to Unova, along with James's Amoonguss but does use her in battles whenever she needed her. However, Jessie was forced to leave Frillish with her boss to assure him that she and her teammates accomplish something in Unova. Fortunately, Jessie got Frillish back as her boss gave her back to her.
Jessie and Gourgeist.
Jessie has known Gourgeist since she was a Pumpkaboo and quickly caught her. Also, Jessie used her a lot in battle. She traded her so she can be happy with another Pumpkaboo, but he lost interest in her when she evolved. Jessie realizes her mistake and got her back, which show how much she cared for her. After she evolved, Jessie used Gourgeist in her freestyle performances in showcases. However, Jessie left Gourgeist at Team Rocket HQ. Despite being apart, Jessie will always have a special spot for Gourgeist, as seen when she saw that Diantha has one of her own . Also, Jessie got to reunite with Gourgeist when her boss gave her back to her.
Jessie and Mimikyu.
At first, Jessie didn't have the best relationship with Mimikyu as it preferred to do its own thing and wouldn't battle unless it was Pikachu. However, over time, Jessie improved her relationship with Mimikyu as she comes to care for it. Although, Jessie still got annoyed when Mimikyu would still do its own thing. However, after being ordered to return to Kanto, Jessie left Mimikyu with Bewear and Stufful as she knew it wouldn't be happy at Team Rocket HQ. Despite being apart, Jessie hopes to see Mimikyu again one day, which she was able to do during a visit to Alola.
Jessie with Bewear and Stufful.
Jessie didn't take Bewear and Stufful at first but did appreciate taking her in alongside her teammates during their time in Alola. However, Jessie came to care for Bewear and Stufful as they alongside her teammates left their plan to steal Pokémon to help them, after seeing them in trouble. After being ordered back to Kanto, Jessie and her teammates bid them farewell as they thanked them for everything. During a vist in Alola, Jessie and her teammates agreed to vist them. However, after failed attempted to steal Pokémon, Jessie and her teammates briefly reunited with them.
In the games, Jessie and James are supposed to be the same age as Ash. However, according to a special CD available only in Japan, Jessie and James are in their 20's in the second episode of Anime.
In the episode "The Ultimate Test," while filling out an application she says aloud, "Age: 17, Profession: Diva." She was in disguise and therefore is probably lying about her age, but it's likely that she's at least 17 years old.
Jessie began to compete as a Pokémon Coordinator in the Hoenn region. Although she was not successful, she continued to participate in each Pokémon Contest she could.
At each contest, she disguised herself due to the notoriety of Team Rocket as a whole.
Initially, she cheated, using technological assistance and intervention of James and Meowth, but then began to compete fairly. She often borrowed Pokémon from James for the contests, and has repeatedly used Meowth as one of her Pokémon.
Despite losing in all the contests she participated in Kanto and Hoenn, in the Sinnoh region, she won three ribbons herself, using her Dustox , Yanmega , and Seviper . She obtained another ribbon after James won a contest in her place (due to being unwell the day of the contest), and received another from Princess Salvia after Jessie won a match with her.
Jessie then became eligible to participate in the Sinnoh Grand Festival , and she made it into the semi-finals, but lost to Dawn . She also participated in the Pokémon Summer Camp and got a diploma/credit for having studied (she was disguised as Jessilina). After the Sinnoh Grand Festival, Jessie abandoned the Jessilina alias.
There is also an episode where she went by the name of Jessibella in a different outfit.
Jessie repeated the disguise method during the Kalos Showcases, using the alias Jessilee. Using Meowth, Gourgeist, and Wobbuffet, she won at least three Princess Keys (at least one was obtained through legitimate means), allowing her to participate in the Kalos Master Class. Much like the Grand Festival, Jessie made it to the semi-finals, but lost to Serena. She later performed again with Serena and Shauna at a performance exhibition during the rebuilding of Lumiose City.
Jessie was a poor girl with a cold past whose mother, Miyamoto , disappeared in an avalanche on an expedition with Team Rocket to capture the legendary Pokémon Mew . As a child, her foster mother (her real mother in the dub) made sushi out of snow, giving her a fondness for eating it. She would even go out of her way to get some snow and make some of her mother's old "recipes".
As a child, she also had a doll that she adored, but was taken away by a Jynx to be repaired by Santa. She thought that Santa was actually a Jynx and that Santa (Jynx) stole her doll. At the end of the episode, the trio decided to capture Santa for Jessie's gifts, but instead, a Jynx came to their window and used Sweet Kiss, causing them to fall into a deep sleep.
Jessie as a child
Not much is known about Jessie's past, outside of what's shown in brief flashbacks. In the ninth episode of the first season, Jessie talks about her bad memories of studying in the Pokémon Technical Institute . At the time, she already knew James and they studied together for a big test, but after getting the lowest grades in the school's history, they joined a bike gang in Sunny Town episodes later. Jessie went to Team Rocket after failing in her attempt to become a Pokémon nurse, partly due to the fact that the Pokémon nursing school she attended was only for Pokémon who wanted to be nurses (in this case, the Chansey ), not for people. But she did not know that until their graduation day.
She also studied at a dance with two friends, letting go of one of her first youthful loves in order to pursue her dream of being a star. However, she failed to impress judges like her friends did and regretted not having accepted an invitation to accompany a boy to compete in Pokémon Contests . This was shown in DP073: Crossing Paths! , when she also released her Dustox to be in love with a shiny male Dustox, owned by a guy who looked identical to her lost lover. Not much is known of her former love life, but she said that has never been very lucky in love as her sweethearts have either treated her unfairly and/or abandoned her. She is later paired up with James, a rebellious rich-boy who did not want to follow his family wishes, and Meowth, a fast-talking Pokémon who has dreams of being on the top. She is close friends with the two of them, even though she often behaves irritably towards them. She is shown to be very fond of James, as seen in Holy Matrimony! , when she was reluctant to leave him behind with his fiancée. She was overjoyed when James returned and revealed his intentions to continue working with her and Meowth, despite the fact that he had to relinquish his family inheritance to do so.
As of her, James's, and Meowth's promotion and transfer to Unova , Jessie became a terrific stealth artist and an excellent athlete, and was often successful in many missions with her teammates, to the point of the trio becoming a serious enemy for Ash and co. The trio was key in Team Rocket's Meteonite plan, taking orders directly from Giovanni himself as well as his secretary. Jessie and her team-mates worked together with Pierce and met Doctor Zager .
Once the plan culminated, Jessie and her team-mates were asked to do as they please in Unova, so they continued working hard to do Team Rocket good and partnered with Zager. Ash had thus become less important to them but they would still antagonize him if he interfered in their plans.
In Scare at the Litwick Mansion! , she, James and Meowth had their life energy drained by four Litwick . The trio is forced to team up with Ash and his friends after Ash saved her from being engulfed into the Ghost World.
Later, Jessie manages to capture Iris's Axew, Emmy's Druddigon and Ash's Pikachu in the episode, The Dragon Master's Path! after using James's Yamask and her Woobat to ambush them while riding in the air rocket. Their rocket soon crashes thanks to Axew's nearly mastered Dragon Rage which allows it and Druddigon to escape briefly in the mountains, but they are soon attacked by both Yamask and Woobat. Team Rocket's stealing attempts are soon futile when they are attacked by Druddigon's newly learned Draco Meteor and Axew's mastered Dragon Rage, forcing them to flee in jetpacks as James coldly remarks that Ash and his group are always getting in their way.
The trio later participates in their boss Giovanni's Operation Tempest in both Meloetta and the Undersea Temple! and Unova's Survival Crisis!. Jessie and James fought both Cilan and Iris using his Yamask and her Woobat against Pansage and Axew. They are amused to see their boss, Giovanni, defeat Ash and his Pikachu using Persian as his battling Pokémon as well as to capture Meloetta in their aircraft.
Giovanni becomes overwhelmed with power and expresses his desire to destroy Unova. Jessie and Meowth tackle their boss to save his life and Giovanni regains control of himself. Team Rocket soon retreats from Unova.
After the failure of Operation Tempest and N's introduction; James, Jessie, and Meowth return to their old ways of capturing Pikachu and their wackier antics. They did still retain their competent demeanor, and still had access to Team Rocket's technology.
They also run into Team Plasma grunts who are searching for N. In Meowth, Colress and Team Rivalry! , she and James manage to lure the Team Plasma grunts into their trap while Meowth ambushes Doctor Colress. Despite their efforts, they realized that Meowth was in Team Plasma's control forcing both to release Amoonguss and Frillish to fight it. When a brainwashed Meowth is finally paralyzed, she and James manages to snap Meowth out from Team Plasma's control. Jessie had Frillish use Mist to escape before being attacked by their Liepard.
The trio are requested by Looker to stop Team Plasma and they steal Team Plasma's Pokémon using Yamask and Woobat. After Team Plasma is defeated they return to their mission of capturing Pikachu, but always fail.
After their failed attempt of capturing Pikachu in The Dream Continues! , they are back in Team Rocket Headquarters as their boss Giovanni wants to know how they defeated Team Plasma. Hiding their connection to Looker, both James and Jessie give their Unova Pokémon such as Yamask, Woobat, Amoonguss and Frillish to Giovanni which he agrees for its safekeeping.
Jessie becomes disappointed that their Unova Pokémon are in Giovanni's hands and even she scolds James and Meowth for wanting to try to capture Pikachu immediately. As the trio leaves to their next mission, her Wobbuffet appears behind them and Jessie brings him back into their team. After Ash decides to travel to the Kalos region, they decide to follow him.
In the XY series, when Ash finally made it in the Kalos region and arriving at Lumiose City, they manage to disrupt the battle between Ash and Clemont. She actually releases Wobbuffet to battle and he demonstrates both his Counter and Mirror Coat. They were soon blasted off by Froakie's Water Pulse.
Jessie and Meowth are also disappointed when James successfully catches Inkay by luring it in with food. Therefore, when she tripped into a wild Pumpkaboo, she decided to capture it.
Throughout these episodes, they are seen trying to steal others' Pokémon, including Pikachu and Pokémon that are able to Mega evolve. However, they are blasted off by Ash and his group or other Trainer's Pokémon . They also fight against the evil Malamar group on several occasions.
Like Serena, Jessie also enters the Pokémon Showcase as a disguised Jessiliee but both are eliminated in their debut. Jessie and James are also thoroughly outmatched during their encounters with Kalos' Team Flare.
During the Lumiose Conference, he along with Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet serve as cameramen for one of the members of Elite Four and news reporter, Malva , and are unaware of Malva's alignment with Team Flare. But as Lysandre causes chaos through Lumiose City with Z-2 as Zygarde in its 50% form, James, Jessie, and Meowth had no choice but to help Professor Sycamore, Mairin, and Serena. With the assistance of the Hoenn Champion, Steven Stone, the trio finally remove their disguises and tells them to move on to get Chespie while facing off against Team Flare grunts including Celosia and Mable.
After the incident James, Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet manage to edit their video to make it look like they defeated Team Flare singlehandedly. Giovanni was impressed and orders them back to their headquarters in Kanto. Before returning to Kanto, they attempt to capture Pikachu one last time in Professor Sycamore's laboratory but failed due to Ash's Greninja using Cut to release Pikachu from their captivity, allowing him and Alain's Charizard to blasts them off for the last time with a Thunderbolt and Flamethrower combination.
In the final episode, Till we Compete Again! in the XY series, they were informed again by Giovanni about their success in defeating Team Flare led by Lysandre and just like the previous episode, he tells them to return to Team Rocket HQ in Kanto to give them some reward which they agreed. James, Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet are last seen in the airport hurrying to catch their flight to the Kanto region.
In the Sun and Moon series, Jessie along with James and Meowth continued their mission of stealing Pokémon and of course robbing Ash's Pikachu, though mostly ending in failure. She also caught a Mimikyu with James's Luxury Ball.
In Mimikyu Unmasked , Jessie and Mimikyu were separated with James, Meowth, and Wobbuffet, and then she attempted to choose a costume for Mimikyu until Mimikyu was fed up. She later encouraged Mimikyu to fix its disguise and in return, Mimikyu helped her to defeat a flock of Murkrow . Although Team Rocket still lost to Ash due to Mimikyu's disobedience, Jessie and Mimikyu's bond had still gotten stronger.
During their exploration on Ula'ula Island , Jessie, James and Meowth earned a Z-Ring that allowed them to perform Z-moves with Mimikyu and Mareanie.
At the end of the Sun and Moon, Jessie decided to release Mimikyu as she assumed that it would be saddened to be stuck in Kanto.
After the Masters Eight tournament, Jessie went with James and Meowth to Paldea to try and capture some Pokémon. During their trip, they ran into Koraidon , Sprigatito , Quaxly and Fuecoco but failed to catch any of them.
After that, Jessie and the Team made a few more attemps to catch Pikachu, but to no avail. During one of their hunger walks, the Delibird from Team Rocket HQ brings them food and all the Pokemon that they have caught over the years (except for the ones they have released), with Giovanni ordering them to put the pokemon to good use. They follow this order by making a full on, last ditch attempt to catch Pikachu, but inevitably fail due to the unown Latias appearing. They get sent blasting off, and when crash landing, realize that the Team won't work after all. In the end, Jessie splits up with James and Meowth, and goes to Giovanni to request his permission for her to be working independently. Instead, she works at the HQ cafeteria, serving food to the various Team Rocket Grunts. The new job is horrible, with even the breaks being short, but no matter what, she still holds anger to James and Meowth. Off camera, she gives up on her waitress job, and gets back with James and Meowth, respectively. They finally corner Ash and Pikachu, reciting their motto for the last time, and almost catch the electric mouse Pokemon, if not for Pidgeot cutting out Pikachu at the 11th hour, and in the end get sent blasting off for the last time in the Anime. Before they do though, all three swear to be together forever, and to never give up on catching Pikachu. This is confirmed, when they are seen spying on the duo in their Hot Air Balloon.
Wobbuffet ♂
Yanma → Yanmega ♀
Pumpkaboo → Gourgeist ♀
Meowth ↔ Gigantamax Meowth ♂
Rotom Phone
This description is blank. You can improve the Pokémon Wiki by editing this template. Weavile
Stonjourner
Ekans → Arbok
Wurmple → Cascoon → Dustox ♀
Lickitung ♀
Carnivine ♂
Chansey → Blissey ♀
Galarian Meowth
Hitmonlee ♂
Dragonite ♀
Taillow (multiple)
Geodude (multiple)
Graveler (multiple)
Golem (multiple)
King Onix ♂
Hippowdon ♂
Garchomp ↔ Mega Garchomp ♀
Heracross ↔ Mega Heracross
Additional Information
Jessie placed in the following Grand Festival competitions:
In Kalos , Jessie started to compete as a Pokémon Performer , and like in Sinnoh contests she was successful enough to become a semi finalist. Her main goal was to be Kalos Queen like Aria and take over the Kalos region. This time, she uses fair methods to participate in showcases.
She won at least two other showcases off screen, though the towns and methods are left undisclosed.
Jessie's Mimikium Z.
James (Japanese: コジロウ Kojirō ) is a member of Team Rocket , an evil team that tries to capture rare Pokémon. His trio's main goal is to steal Ash's Pikachu .
His Japanese first-person pronoun is 「俺」 (ore), but around relatives or people he has known since childhood, he switches to「僕」 (boku).
Concept artwork of James.
James has shoulder-length periwinkle hair with a single fringe sprouting from the center and green eyes. He is usually seen in a Team Rocket uniform, which consists of a white long sleeve shirt with a large red R on it, a black short sleeve undershirt, white pants with a purple belt, black boots, and matching gloves.
In the episode, Holy Matrimony! , James is dressed in a dark blue formal suit jacket with a white long sleeve button shirt with a black tie at the center, dark blue formal pants and black shoes. He later wears a cowboy hat along with a brown long poncho cloak to conceal his outfit while trying to say goodbye to his beloved Growlithe .
As a child, he wears a blue suit like his adult self, black shorts instead of pants, has a light green tie with a red jewel in the center, white socks, and black shoes.
At the start of Johto Journeys opening until the XY series the color of his hair changed from periwinkle to lavender.
When he competes in a PokéRinger in That's Just Swellow , James wears a pale yellow air military jumpsuit with a brown sailor fuku and the black round shape with an "R" symbol on each side of his shoulders, underneath is an off-white long sleeve button shirt, brown gloves, and black military shoes.
When they briefly had a day off, James wears two swimsuits within the episodes.
In A Way Off Day Off and Lapras of Luxury , James is seen in blue swim shorts. But in two episodes in Sinnoh, James wears a dark blue swimming trunks with and a red "R" sign at the center of his trunks.
In their mission in Unova with Jessie and Meowth in Pokémon: Black & White , James's Team Rocket uniform is now charcoal gray signifying his promotion to an Advanced Agent until it reverted to their original white in Battling For The Love of Bug-Types! and onwards. Not to reveal themselves as Team Rocket, James wears a navy blue trenchcoat, a matching black glasses and a gray fedora hat with black linings to conceal himself.
In the XY series, James's initial disguise where he spies on Ash and the group consists of an olive green formal vest with a pale yellow long sleeve button shirt with the sleeves are folded into his cuffs and a red tie on the collar, beige pants, and brown shoes. He also wears a green fedora hat with red linings and his hair is tied in a small low ponytail and wears cosmetic blue sunglasses.
He also wears this in Mending on a Broken Spirit! where he briefly helps Serena takes her to Woodward under the alias Jeeves before he becomes reluctant to join with Jessie and Meowth.
In Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon , the color of James's hair reverts into periwinkle and his shoulder-length hair gains a wavey quality. Sometimes, James would use his and Jessie's Z-Power Ring in order to perform a Z-Move.
When he first arrives in Alola, James wears a light teal short-sleeved button shirt with light blue hearts on each side, khaki shorts, and blue flats. He wears a cap similar to both Ash and Ritchie's but is blue and white and retains his cosmetic blue sunglasses in the XY series.
During the Alola league, James wears a yellow and pink short-sleeved loose v-neck shirt with a sea-green trim and a sea-green printed Chimecho design at the center which resembles his own Chimecho , pale blue denim capris with white designs at the knees, ripped design at the edge and his back pocket is black, and green loafers with white designs and black soles. James also wears a pale yellow abacus hat with white linings on his head and a blue cosmetic sports sunglasses to cover his eyes. While wearing the outfit, James's hair is tied in a low ponytail like his initial disguise in the XY series.
In the movie MS021: Pokémon the Movie: The Power of Us which is set in a completely different universe than the other films, both Jessie and James's uniforms undergo minor cosmetic changes. In James’ case, his hair changes to a slightly shorter length hairdo. His uniform also undergoes slight cosmetic changes as well, with his top having shorter sleeves. His undershirt also has long sleeves.
In Pokémon the Series: Sword & Shield , he looks much like he does in the Sun & Moon series as his shoulder-length hair is now cut into a short bob and the two long fringes are also cut short to match up the length of his hair.
As James from the Alternate World in " The Gates of Warp! " to " Showdown at the Gates of Warp! ", he wears his charcoal gray Team Rocket uniform in Pokémon: Black & White but equipped with bluish gray Team Rocket armor, a silver robotic gauntlets, and a matching greaves, resembling large gun holsters. His black boots are replaced by a bluish gray thigh-high armor boots to match up the rest of his armor to complete the entire outfit. Overall, this uniform he wears when he works within the Alternate World Team Rocket.
Behind his Team Rocket duties, James remains a deeply sensitive, warm-hearted, and immature individual, driven as much by emotion as by loyalty. He constantly plays a double role, putting on a fake facade of confidence and exaggerating his reactions like a stage actor to hide his true nature and his lack of self-confidence.
In James's debut anime appearance and onwards, he is initially seen as a calm and serious person who tends to recite the Team Rocket motto with more elegance and flair than his cohorts. As the series continued, however, much of the trio's original seriousness melted away.
In the early episodes, James is also just as narcissistic as Jessie. But as his character develops, their personalities begin to diverge, and the young man becomes less concerned with his appearance, and by the later seasons, he even adopts a more old-fashioned, slightly “nerdy” style when dressed in civilian clothes. In the very first episodes he can even be rough with Pokémon, sometimes kicking them to try to make them evolve but this behavior quickly becomes out of character for him, and he soon grows into a gentle and caring trainer. Unlike Jessie, he no longer seeks out rivalries with other characters, becoming humble and conciliatory, while she remains consistently jealous of women in higher positions than her.
James is shown to be the most emotional of the Team Rocket trio and apparently has the greatest moral conscience among the three. Despite this, he is not all pure but he is therefore not prone to backstabbing anyone who is kind to him.
He is very sensitive and anxious. When he is convinced that he can succeed at something, he becomes extremely motivated, sometimes even excessively so, putting all his heart and soul into achieving his goal and in those moments, he sometimes briefly boasts in an attempt to make up for his big lack of self-confidence. However, this motivation is very unstable. In reality, the young man lacks some of the constant optimism and motivation his teammates have and is shown to become very depressed when he fails at something. Despite these brief depressive periods, he is actually arguably the least serious of the trio.
Part of James's eccentricity is shown through his affinity for collecting rare bottle caps, a hobby which he traces far back into his childhood. However, his childlike mindset often gets him into trouble, too, such as being repeatedly scammed by the same Magikarp salesman in various different episodes, much to the disapproval of Jessie and Meowth.
James is actually fairly intelligent , he is a gifted hacker and a great engineer, capable of creating sophisticated robots but he is naive, very childish and he is too emotional. He has more of a follower’s personality than a leader’s, and because of his lack of backbone, he is easily swayed and led by others
James developed a strange and often contradictory personality due to the traumas of his childhood.
In Holy Matrimony! , he shows his very sensitive side and intense fear when it comes to his wealthy family, particularly due to his heavily enforced, sheltered upbringing and the constant harassment he had endured from his dominatrix fiancée: Jessebelle who was imposed on him for a forced marriage combined with a Victorian discipline. His parents were negative influences, as shown when he finally grows up and displays a clear disdain and fear concerning their wishes to marry him off to this cruel girl.
His parents have been unworthy and abusive to him; in the episode "Mending a Broken Spirit", James's mother threw away his precious collection of bottle caps, which meant everything to him, and placed the empty cookie tin that held them back exactly where her son had hidden it. In « Holly matrimony » Both of them calmly closed their eyes and sipped their tea in the torture room, where Jessiebelle chased James with a whip to "educate" him. His mother is called him a "worthless do-nothing."
James sensitively questions whether he has a "duty to be manipulated", and he calls out his parents as being "lousy" due to their failure to realize the detrimental effects that Jessebelle's attitude had on his upbringing. He openly despises upper-class society, lamenting about how it seems to him that they have strict rules for just about everything; feelings which were most likely triggered by Jessebelle's constant criticism. In Holly matrimony, however, it is shown that before his rebellious attitude arose in him, he cared deeply for his parents. He also clearly cares for his grandparents, ("His nannies in the original version") , Nanny and Pop-Pop as seen in Sweet Baby James! .
Despite his reputation as a villain, James sets temporary truces with Ash and his friends and side with them on various occasions, and occasionally calls on their help as well. The pokemon thief usually honors temporary truces towards Ash and his friends as a method of shielding his criminal history from people such as his grandparents. This is shown on one occasion in Sweet Baby James! In this episode, the young man shows an obvious adoration towards his Nanny and Pop-Pop, even scolding Jessie and Meowth for carrying out their usual antics while in their care. At the end of the episode, James tells his grandparents the truth about his loyalties, and they remark that he still has the same sweet personality he had as a child.
James has a big heart when it comes to his Pokémon. This is demonstrated when he recounts his love for his first Pokémon, Growlithe , who is extremely loyal to him. He considers Growlie to be a friend rather than a Pokémon, and other Pokémon such as Chimecho , Mime Jr. , and Inkay are shown to have similar loving and loyal relationships with their beloved trainer. whenever James is forced to release a Pokémon, he shows great emotion and sentiment for his parting friends, such as his tearful goodbye to his beloved Chimecho, who is currently in the care of his grandparents. He seems to be partial to dangerous Grass Pokémon such as Victreebel, Cacnea, and Carnivine, who are so affectionate toward him that they often bite, sting, or smother him the moment they come out of their Poké Ball.
In Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon , James also cares for his Water Pokémon, Mareanie, despite how dangerous she is when she poisons him in affection.
Although he is usually fearful, when his Pokémon are in danger, bursts of adrenaline can drive him to act with unexpected bravery, surprising strength, and genuine courage to protect them. He is physically agile and athletic, even if he’s slim and not especially muscular, but his natural anxiety and hesitation generally take over. Aside from the moments when he performs the Team Rocket motto, he often slips into awkward stances — legs arched, back curved — which completely undermines any credibility he might have as a supposedly intimidating “villain.”
In some episodes throughout the series, James has a tendency to cross-dress, which was shown frequently in the original anime. He only cross-dresses in 1 episode per series since DP, and does not do it at all in BW.
James is also a make-up expert as seen in some episodes where he made a simple make-up and accessories for Wobbuffet and Jessie as Jessilina for the contest but Jessie ruined it for her own desire to win much of his horrible shock and dismay leaving them both to lose the competition until they were blasted off by both Dawn's Buneary and Paris' Lopunny's Bounce after Jessie takes revenge by personally stole the accessories of the contest using their robot machine which James didn't participate in their antics due to his efforts in making a simple make-up and accessories for both Jessie and Wobbuffet are ruined by Jessie herself. In , he put Wobbuffet some make-up and fashionable attires to show it to Ash and the group.
Although James appears confident on the surface, deep down, he suffers from a significant low self-esteem. In the episode "A hole lotta trouble » Ash and Brock try to make him realize the importance of asserting himself without his teammates. On stage, he is an outstanding and highly skilled speaker; when he encourages someone else, he is passionate and loud. However, in a face-to-face confrontation or when he has to participate in a league himself, he becomes very timid. James is not the same person in the spotlight, for his job and in private. It is explained in the episode 'A Faux Oak Finish' that James loses his stage fright and shyness when he focuses on the idea that he is doing something evil for Team Rocket.
In the events of Pokémon: Black & White , during their mission in Unova, James maintains his calm and serious personality we saw in his debut appearance, but due to his promotion as an Advanced Agent, he no longer cares for his beloved family or anyone else only his assignments but did show kindness to his Yamask when they met. He simply shows his antagonistic side, remaining stoic and sociopathic whenever he was engaged in a serious mission, especially those involving trying to capture Ash's Pikachu. However, after the failure of Operation Tempest, James's antagonistic behavior finally subsides and he returns to his usual personality from before.
An interesting note is that during James motto; with Jessie and Meowth, James is usually seen handling a red rose to show his calm and elegant demeanor. However, in their missions in Unova whenever they capture any Pokémon, especially Ash's Pikachu, James is usually seen handling a black or a blue rose due to Jessie handling a red rose during their motto, he was even shown in one version holding a glass of wine. This implies his personality change which becomes apparent when they improve their old motto.
In the series Pokémon the Series: XY(Z) during the episode "Heroes, Friends and Faux Alike!", James, along with Jessie and Meowth, are able to disguise themselves as Ash, Serena and Bonnie in order to place blame on the real ones for their actions of stealing Pokémon.
James also retains in making truces to Ash and the group, this was shown such as when they were at his grandparents house and he didn't want them to know he is in Team Rocket, in exchange for their silence, James promised not to steal their Pokémon while they were there. This agreement was held up as he helped defend his house when Jessie and Mouth tried to steal the Pokémon. In Kalos, when facing off against powerful enemies such as the evil Malamar who initially brainwashed him and kidnapping his friends within their Psychic grasp to do their plot on destroying the world and the Pokémon Hunter and his Rhyperior who managed to capture both Inkay and Meowth.
Throughout the series; despite James, Jessie and Meowth's evil acts towards Ash and the group to capture Pikachu or other Pokémon, they are also dealing against criminal organizations from different regions such as Team Aqua and Team Magma in Hoenn, Team Galactic in Sinnoh, Team Plasma in Unova, Team Flare in Kalos and Team Skull in Alola.
Like Jessie and Meowth, James badly remarks about the criminal grunts' appearance and outfits in every different region and is particularly critical of Team Flare's uniforms.
As other grunts from other regions; such as Saturn , Charon , and Mars from Team Galactic and later both Celosia , Mable , and Bryony from Team Flare remarking the three of them as a nuisance for interfering in their plans.
Due to growing up in a wealthy household, James developed various skills that he sometimes puts to use for his Team Rocket duties. The strict Victorian-style discipline of his childhood strengthened his endurance and resistance to pain, while the repeated poisonings from Jessebelle’s Vileplume built up his immunity to toxins. He was also forced to take extensive gymnastics and dance lessons, which later proved useful for his agility and his skill in disguises. His father, a passionate mechanic, taught him the art of mechanics, giving James a talent for creating gadgets and complex robots and he is a gifted hacker. James is skilled in disguise, easily fooling Ash, his friends, and others, and he can perform a variety of jobs whenever he and his teammates need money to fund their Pokémon schemes.
Although he cares for his parents, James doesn't have the best relationship with them as they wanted him to marry Jessebelle and be a proper gentlemen. However, before leaving his parents again, James asked his trusted partner to look after them, which shows the care and love he has for them.
James is more close to his grandparents then he is with his parents as they let him be who he is whenever he was with them. Due to the love he has for them, James couldn't bring himself to tell his grandparents of his involvement with Team Rocket but does tell them as they come to accept that and know he is still himself no matter what he does.
James and Jessie.
Jessie is one of James's best friends as they're both teammates for Team Rocket. James would try his best to make Jessie happy as he even hides his true feelings about her opinion, although he also does that just to avoid her wrath. Despite many obstacles their relationship takes, James always has Jessie's back and knows she has his.
Unlike Jessie's violent rivary with Cassidy, James doesn't have anything personal against Butch, being a rival by association with Cassidy. For Butch's part, his relationshp with James is no different from his interactions with other characters as he often forgets Butch's name like everyone else, much to his annoyance. Butch always calls James a loser while James can't stand the fact that Butch constantly looks down on him.
James and Growlie.
James has a strong bond with Growlie as he's known him since his youth and consider his only friend at his home. Also, James has great faith in Growlie just as much he does for him.
James and Carnivine.
James has known Carnivine since he was little as he first meet in the Marsh Land in Sinnoh when he saw it in trouble and rescued it. At times, James would get bitten by Carnivine as it was its way of showing affection. Despite the many times it would do that, James cares a lot for Carnivine and it cares for him in return. After returning to Sinnoh, James left Carnivine at Team Rocket HQ. However, James was reunited with Carnivine when his boss brought it back to be in his party once again.
James and Meowth.
Meowth is more than part of the Team Rocket team to James as he is one of his best friends and would do anything to make him happy. Despite their friendship, James and Meowth do clash but don't stay that way for long.
James and Weezing.
James had Weezing since it was a Koffing and consider it a sibling because they been together for so long. Also, James not only uses Weezing in battles but also for getaway whenever they were escaping or stealing Pokémon. However, James released Weezing to be with its pre-evolved form. Despite being apart, James will never forget Weezing.
James and Victreebel.
James has a fondness for Victreebel and has known it since it was a Weepinbell. Like Carnivine, Victreebel would give James affection by latching on to his head. However, James traded Victreebel for another Weepinbell but that one evolved as well. Although, little did James know, his two Victreebel's crossed path and fell in love with each other, after both of them were released. Despite being apart, James hopes for the best for Victreebel.
James and Cacnea.
The day he said goodbye to Weezing, James ended up getting a new Pokémon in Cacnea as he quickly became close with it. However, James gets hurt by Cacnea needles whenever it would show him affection. However, after a Grass -Type Gym Leader saw its potential, James has Cacnea stay with her and train. Despite being apart, James knows his relationship with Cacnea will remain.
James and Chimecho.
James has always wanted a Chimecho since he was little and tried to get one during that time as well. During his time in Hoenn, James got his wish to have a Chimecho as he asked it if it wanted to go with him and happily accepted. However, James doesn't use Chimecho in battle as he babies it but does let it stay outside its PokéBall from time to time. After it fell ill, James brought Chimecho to Nanny and Pop-Pop to heal it. However, James was forced to leave Chimecho with them but knows his relationship with it will always be there till the end.
James and Mime Jr.
James and Mime Jr. quickly bonded after meeting each other as she decided to go with him when he was forced to leave Chimecho in his grandparents' care. Like he was with Chimecho, James babied Mime Jr. as he didn't use her for battle but lets her stay outside her PokéBall. However, James left Mime Jr. in Team Rocket HQ. Fortunately, James reunited with Mine Jr. and was happy to have her back in his party.
James and Yamask.
James quickly hit it off with Yamask and used it for battles and operations in Unova. However, James was forced to give Yamask to the boss in order to cover up not achieving anything else in Unova. Although, James was able to Yamask back from his boss as he return it to him.
James and Amoonguss.
James doesn't have much of a relationship with Amoonguss, mainly on the account that he just caught it after returning to Unova (just like Jessie's Frillish ) but does use in battle whenever he needed it. However, James was forced to leave Amoonguss with his boss to make up for not accomplishing a lot of things in Unova. Fortunately, James was given Amoonguss back from his boss.
James and Inkay.
James and Inkay seem to have a strong bond with each other as he counts a lot on him. When his evolved form took control of him, James was able to reach out to Inkay and got him to break free from its control. After Kalos, James left Inkay at Team Rocket HQ. However, James reunited with Inkay and was delighted to have him back in his party once again.
James with Bewear and Stufful.
James and his teammates kept getting taken away by Bewear during their time in Alola. However, James and his teammates like how Bewear treats them as she took them in and gave them a place to live in Alola. When her Stufful child came to the picture, James and his teammates were warmed by it of its parent was coming. Also, James and his teammates abandoned their plan to steal Pokémon to help them as they come to care for them, after they were attacked by an Ultra Beast. Before leaving for Kanto, James and his teammates thanked Bewear as they said their goodbyes but she helped get back their faster. During a vist to Alola, James and everyone decided to vist Bewear and Stufful alongside the Pokémon they left under their care. However, after falling to steal Pokémon again, James and everyone got their wish to see Bewear and Stufful again.
James and Mareanie.
Similar to his other Pokémon before her, James is a victim of being shown affection by Mareanie but care a lot about her nevertheless. Also, James enjoys Mareanie's company and tries his best to make her happy. Like Ash's Bayleef , Mareanie had a schoolgirl crush on James as she even imagined her and James getting married. However, after being ordered back to Kanto, James left Mareanie with Bewear and Stufful as he felt she wouldn't be happy at Team Rocket HQ. Before leaving, James entrusted their Alola home/headquarters to Mareanie and promised to come back to the Region one day. James kept his word to Mareanie as he was happy to see her again during a vist to Alola.
James and Morpeko.
James and his teammates first meet Morpeko during their second trip in Galar as it followed them back to Kanto. They all got annoyed when Morpeko ate their food but they made good use of it in an eating contest. After a while, they decided to have Morpeko leave by letting Goh take it. However, James had grown fond of Morpeko then was impressed when he saw its strength in a battle against Ash and Goh. After reuniting with it, James decided to have Morpeko be part of his team and it happily accepted him as its Trainer, which officially forged their bond and friendship.
Jessie and James in the Unova region.
In the anime, James is a common member of Team Rocket . During his adventures in trying to capture Pikachu , James is part of a unit made up of himself, Jessie , and Meowth . He is close friends with the two of them, and is known to make personal sacrifices in order to keep them safe, as seen when he sacrificed his bottle cap collection to help Meowth in the episode Meowth Rules! . Born into a rich family with overbearing and at worst, negligent parents, he runs away from home to avoid his forced fiancé, Jessebelle . With a very caring and thoughtful personality, James can sometimes have a hard time dealing with the "rotten things" he and his teammates have to do as members of Team Rocket. He also gives out information on Pokémon whenever Meowth cannot do it himself via Index cards.
Out of the Team Rocket Trio, James is the most emotional and most caring towards others and his Pokémon. In A Hole Lotta Trouble, he told Ash that he just wanted to have a fair battle with him rather than resort to their dirty tricks suggested by Jessie and Meowth. In Training Daze, he takes it upon himself to help Meowth whenever he gets stuck in the Obstacle Courses. In episodes like Sweet Baby James and Once There Were Greenfields , James clearly shows his affinity for his Pokémon. This is also seen in Off The Unbeaten Path and Holy Matrimony! , with his Growlithe and Mime Jr. He is especially careful and cautious with his Chimecho , treating it with additional care and not letting it suffer in battles, just like how Misty treats her Togepi. Due to his great care of his Pokémon, most of his Pokémon like to have physical contacts with him when they came out of their Poké Ball. He also tends to be good to people who treat him well, like his grandparents, as seen in the episode Sweet Baby James. He was also seen comforting May when her Munchlax got sick along with his Chimecho in the same episode.
In Sweet Baby James! , James takes his sick Chimecho to his grandparents, Nanny and Pop-Pop on one of his summer cottages who also tend to May's sick Munchlax. Confronting Ash's group, James asks them to keep his criminal work with Team Rocket a secret from his grandparents. James also reprimands Jessie and Meowth for trying to steal Pokémon while his grandparents are around. James and May are also guarding the sick Munchlax and Chimecho as he comforts May about their caring for their Pokémon. When everyone is asleep, Jessie and Meowth manage to steal his grandparents Pokémon including Mime Jr. as well as both his Chimecho and Munchlax. Angered with his teammates, James then releases Cacnea to stop both Jessie and Meowth from attacking Ash's group. Cacnea manages to knock-out Seviper with a single Needle Arm and eventually blasted both Jessie and Meowth by Ash's Phanpy's Hidden Power and James's Cacnea's Pin Missile combination.
As his Chimecho is not recovering, James is forced to leave it with his grandparents. Seeing him struggle with the departure, his grandparents' Mime Jr. decides to travel with James. After that, James leaves with Jessie and Meowth after he tells his grandparents privately that he was indeed working for Team Rocket and he waves goodbye in tears to them while flying in the Meowth Balloon.
In The Treasure is All Mine! , we learn that James buried a treasure box with a letter of engagement between him and Jesebelle on his family's estate in Sinnoh. After being blasted off by Pikachu, James recalls the treasure box as he wants to reclaims it from Ash and the group. Despite their failed attempts, the group is blasted off for the second time and the treasure box is given to Sebastian which is James's butler from one of his summer estates. With their disguises blown off by his pet Growlithe, James uses Mime Jr. to keep others at bay while searching for the box.
James finally tells them about his first meeting with Jessebelle in his childhood during his parents' ballroom party and that Jessebelle was his first true love. He, in fact, wrote the letter of engagement and hid it in the treasure box that his father gave him. Upon meeting Jesebelle, though, he learns that his parents arranged their marriage, and that she wants him to relinquish his pet Growlthie and otherwise control his life. After telling them about the situation, James notices flying blimps are heading towards the estate and realizes that Sebastian had called Jessebelle in response to his presence. With this, James escapes with Ash, Dawn, Brock, Jessie, and Meowth through a secret passage. When Ash and Brock hold up the door, James eventually fights off the robotic treasure chest which he is unable to open. He manages to stop it as the treasure box turns into a rocket, which he uses to escape. He was later confronted by Jessebelle one last time as James convinces Ash to send him and his teammates flying with Pikachu's Thunderbolt attacks. Pikachu does thi, but accidentally sends Jessebelle flying away instead of Jessie. The episode ends with Jessie surrounded by Jessebelle's bodyguards, and Jessebelle yelling at James and Meowth on a beach.
As of his, Jessie's and Meowth's promotion and transfer to Unova, James has become a highly skilled stealth artist, an excellent hacker, and is often successful in missions with his teammates; to the point of the trio becoming a serious enemy for Ash and his companions. The trio was key in Team Rocket's Meteonite plan, taking orders directly from Giovanni himself as well as his secretary. James and his teammates worked together with Pierce and met Doctor Zager . Once the plan culminated, James and his teammates were allowed to do as they please in Unova, so they continued to contribute to the Team Rocket organization and now work closely with Zager. Ash has also become less important to them but they will still antagonize him if he interferes in their plans.
In The Scare of Litwick Mansion , he, Jessie, and Meowth had their life energy drained at the hands of four Litwick after they are informed by Doctor Zager of their origins. The trio is forced to aid Ash and his friends to battle against the four Litwick including its leader Lampent as they called a brief truce after being rescued by them. Lampent tries to hit them with Inferno only for the attack to be deflected by Ash's Oshawott's Water Gun allowing Jessie's Woobat to knock it away with Air Slash and finally the group of Pokémon is blasted away in the Ghost World by Pikachu's Electro Ball.
After the incident and, with their life energy finally restored, James informs Ash and the group that they will get Pikachu the next time they meet after Jessie tells them they will meet them as enemies before the trio flies away with their jetpacks.
Their word in the last episode proves to true when they manage to capture Iris's Axew , Emmy's Druddigon , and Ash's Pikachu in the episode, The Dragon Master's Path! after using his Yamask and Jessie's Woobat to ambush them. However, Druddigon manages to free Pikachu with its Dragon Claw before being caught by them. Their rocket soon crashes thanks to Axew's nearly mastered Dragon Rage which allows it and Druddigon to escape briefly in the mountains but they are soon attacked by both Yamask and Woobat. When Ash and the group arrive to retrieve both, James lets Yamask unleash its Shadow Ball but it fails when Pikachu hits it and Woobat with his Thunderbolt. Team Rocket's stealing attempts are soon futile when they are attacked by Druddigon's newly learned Draco Meteor and Axew's Dragon Rage, forcing Team Rocket to flee.
In the episode, Gotta Catch a Roggenrola! , Team Rocket uses a machine created by Doctor Zager to capture Roggenrola and uses them to fire off a deadly Flash Cannon attack. One of the Roggenrola manages to warn Ash and the group about the incident in the cave. Ash's Roggenrola risks its life to save its friends. Soon, James is forced to fight Ash and the group releasing his Yamask while teaming up with Jessie's Woobat. Despite their efforts, both of their Pokémon are defeated by Ash's Tepig. They are soon forced to flee using jetpacks. Ash's Pikachu along with all of the Roggenrola destroy the machine with an Electro Ball and Flash Cannon combination. James is disappointed with their failure while Jessie states that they will take over Unova for their boss, Giovanni, as they continue to fly away with their jetpacks.
In Meowth's Scrafty Tactics! , James and Jessie coldly abandoned Meowth because his mission backfired. However, this is actually a ruse so that Meowth can join Ash's group on their journey until in the episode Crisis from an Underground Up! where Meowth reveals his actions to Ash and his friends by tricking them and stealing an incredible number of Poké Balls. Team Rocket's nefarious act continues in Battle for the Underground where they are aided by Doctor Zager in their attempts to steal a subway train. After all of Ash and his friends' Pokémon broke free, James, Jessie, and Meowth rely on Doctor Zager's efforts until Ash's Snivy and Pikachu's Leaf Storm and Electro Ball combination destroys the capture device. After failing to capture all of their Pokémon, James presses the detonator to escape in Doctor Zager's helicopter.
The trio later participates in their boss Giovanni's Operation: Tempest in both Meloetta and the Undersea Temple! and Unova's Survival Crisis! James and Jessie fought both Cilan and Iris using Yamask and Woobat against Pansage and Axew. However, they are amused to see their boss, Giovanni, defeat Ash and his Pikachu using Persian, as well as to capture Meloetta in the aircraft.
Despite their success and their efforts for Giovanni paying off, he becomes consumed with his own ambitions and is possessed by the Reveal Glass to summon the three legendary Pokémon in the sky and turns them into their Therian forms so that Giovanni can control them. The trio guards Giovanni while confronting Ash, Pikachu, and his Unfezant while Giovanni orders the Kami trio to intensify their strength.
When Pikachu destroys the platform Giovanni was standing with his amplified Electro Ball, he is consumed by his own evil ambitions and wants to destroy the Unova region rather than conquer it. James, Jessie, and Meowth eventually tackle their boss to save his life and help him regain his senses. After Giovanni agreed to retreat immediately, James and Jessie help him to safety. Both James and Jessie admitted that Pikachu is special to them while they are escaping in the helicopter until Giovanni's orders a total retreat back in Kanto.
After the failure of Operation Tempest and N's introduction, James, Jessie, and Meowth return to their old ways of capturing Pikachu and other Pokémonand instead of being a serious enemy to Ash. However, they still retain their competent demeanor, and had access to Team Rocket's technology. They manage to capture Nanette's Tepig rather than Ash's Pikachu , but are soon thwarted by Pikachu.
As they continue to observe Ash and the group to capture Pikachu and please Giovanni, they also ran into Team Plasma and Colress in Team Plasma's Pokémon Manipulation!. The trio tried their best to hack their machines but failed when Team Plasma's forces overwhelmed them.
When N and his foster siblings escape from the fog, the trio eventually found three Team Plasma grunts searching for N. Inside the tower, James and Jessie manage to ambush Colress and other Team Plasma grunts in the episode, Meowth, Colress and Team Rivalry! . Both of them serve as a decoy so that Meowth can attack Colress. While Meowth makes a deal with Colress to act as a test subject for the machine, James and Jessie manage to trap all four of the Team Plasma grunts in an energy field. Returning to find Meowth, James and Jessie were impressed to see Colress controlling the machine, until it collapses. Colress soon reveals that he's controlling Meowth, much to Jessie and James's shock. They are forced to use both Frillish and Amoonguss to fight Meowth,but successfully detain Meowth. Both James and Jessie do their best to wake Meowth from his brainwashing, and eventually, succeed. Jessie has her Frillish use Mist to escape with James and Meowth.
When Reshiram is finally released by Ghetsis, the leader of Team Plasma, they are soon requested by Looker to help stop Team Plasma, They succeed as Ash's Pikachu manages to destroy the machine that controls Pokémon with Pikachu's Electro Ball.
After Team Plasma is defeated and disbanded, James, Jessie, and Meowth inform Giovanni about Team Plasma's defeat which he is very pleased with and he tells them to keep up the good work before hanging up. The trio continues their plot to capture Pikachu but fail in every attempt.
In The Dream Continues! , after they are blasted off by all of Ash's Pokémon whine in Pallet Town, they return to Team Rocket HQ to meet up with their boss, Giovanni. He was impressed to see the trio defeat Team Plasma and wants to know of the results. Since Giovanni is unaware of their brief alignment with the international detective Looker to stop Team Plasma, tell their boss about the unique Pokémon in the Unova region. With that, both James and Jessie give their Unova Pokémon, Yamask, Amoonguss, Woobat, and Frillish, to Giovanni for its safekeeping.
Jessie was saddened to lose their Unova Pokémon in Giovanni's hands as James continues to be ready to capture Pikachu but Jessie tells him that they are always creamed by Ash's Pokémon much to his dismay. Meowth tells them about their next plan to capture Ash's Pikachu, until Jessie's Wobbuffet comes out from behind them and decides to travel with them again. That night, after Ash reveals he's going to travel to the Kalos region, the trio decides to get to the same place before Ash does at dawn.
In the XY series, they return for their old antics as Jessie's Wobbuffet rejoins the team and finally demonstrates his defense abilities by countering Pikachu's Electro Ball with Mirror Coat. Their success is short-lived, however, when Froakie blasts them off with Water Pulse before fainting.
Throughout the series, they are always blasted off by Ash and his group. They try and fail to steal various Pokémon, including a Gardevoir that belongs to the Kalos champion and actress, Diantha. The trio also fight against the evil Malamar who brainwash them temporarily and leave them with a lasting fear of James's Inkay.
In Heroes, Friends, and Faux Alike! , after being blasted off by Ash and his group, the trio poses as Ash and his group to attack other trainers' Pokémon, with James and his Inkay pretending to be Ash and Pikachu. They also commit petty crimes while disguised, like dining and dashing. However the next day, they are confronted by Ash and the group while posing as them and they reveal themselves to be responsible. James reveals that they posed as them to separate Ash, Serena, and Bonnie while trying to trick Clemont into making the Helioptile robot. They are blasted off soon by the robot, which exploded.
In some episodes, they continue their plans of capturing Pikachu, procuring valuable items, and stealing Trainer-owned Pokémon who can Mega Evolve, but their plans always backfire.
In A Stealthy Challenge! , they manage to interrupt the battle between Ash's Froakie and Pikachu, Sanpei's Greninja and Saizo's Barbaracle . However, because of their interference, the masked Saizo and his Barbaracle attack both Meowth and Wobbuffet with his Barbaracle's Razor Shell, allowing both Ash's Froakie and Sanpei's Greninja to blast them off with a Water Pulse and Water Shuriken combination.
In Facing The Grand Design! , James notices his Inkay loves croissants much like his Mime Jr. who loves chocolates and they are seen observing Ash and the group where they attempt to steal Pikachu. Inkay angrily senses a truck is driven by an evil Malamar who speeds straight ahead and angrily follows it causing James to chase it while Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet follow. They discover that three trucks are parked at the foot of Grace Tower and the drivers of the truck are none other than three evil Malamar, much to their horror.
After hearing from Officer Jenny about the weapons seen in the radio observatory and three evil Malamar's grand plan, an explosion can be heard due to a ball of light. They are confronted by two evil Malamar as Inkay becomes enraged by their actions. Ash, Pikachu, Serena, Bonnie, Jessie, Officer Jenny, and Wobbuffet are soon captured by the two evil Malamar's Psychic as Jame's Inkay manages to blind one of them with its ink while attempting to free James, Clemont, and Meowth. This allows Clemont to release Bunnelby to use Dig making their escape as James carries an enraged Inkay away from the Malamar.
After James's Inkay convinces good Inkay and Malamar to help them, they return to the tower and attack the evil Malamar. James became mortified when his Inkay was caught by one of the evil Malamar and brainwashed. James does its best to convince Inkay to return to normal and manages to break the brainwashing. With Inkay free, Ash has Pikachu use Thunder to destroy the evil Malamar's schemes.
After the evil three Malamar escape, James allows his Inkay to live with the wild Inkay and Malamar in the forest near Grace Tower. But Inkay decides to come with him despite his doubts. James emotionally cries of joy and finally hugs Inkay and became sorry for doubting him. James promises Inkay that they will capture Pikachu the next time they encounter Ash and his group, and that he was excited to have Inkay as a partner.
In A Fork in the Road! A Parting of the Ways! , James and Meowth are searching for Jessie and Wobbuffet who are later saved from drowning by Dr. White. They later overhear Jessie, who's posing as Jessilia, that she decided to quit Team Rocket for the love of Dr. White making them run away as James emotionally cries stating that he will let Jessie go for the sake of her happiness. However, she ends up returning to the trio and helps them defeat a Pokémon hunter.
In some episodes involving a Pokémon Showcase, James and Meowth are cheering for Jessie while she's disguised as Jessilie.
In Mending a Broken Spirit! , James briefly assists Serena to find Woodward after her Braixen breaks her twig when Pancham accidentally hit her with a Dark Pulse attack from behind during battle practice. He uses the alias Jeeves and helps her find a replacement stick. When his disguise fails, Team Rocket is blasted off by Braixen's newly learned Fire Blast while connecting her broken branch.
During the Lumiose Conference, he along with Jessie, Meowth and Wobbuffet serve as cameramen for one of the members of Elite Four and news reporter, Malva . But they are unaware of Malva's position in Team Flare. But as Lysandre causes chaos through Lumiose City to create giant vines to control Z-2 as Zygarde in its 50% form, James, Jessie, and Meowth had no choice but to help Professor Sycamore , Mairin , and Serena to get Chespie via helicopter. With the assistance of the Hoenn Champion, Steven Stone , the trio finally remove their disguises and tells them to move on to get Chespie while facing off against Team Flare grunts including Celosia and Mabel.
They soon evacuated the labs when Chespie was absorbed by the Giant Rock ; forming a resemblance to a Megalith Zygarde in its 50% form. The trio records Diantha, Steven Stone, The Kalos Gym Leaders, Alain, and Ash acting as the last line of defense for the city. The Megalith Zygarde is soon destroyed including Lysandre by both Squishy and Z-2 as Zygarde's complete form using Core Enforcer, killing him in the process and ending Team Flare's villainous plot, and freeing Chespie.
After the incident James, Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet manage to edit their video to make it seem like they defeated Team Flare. Giovanni was impressed by the doctored video and orders them back to their headquarters in Kanto. Before returning to Kanto, they attempt to capture Pikachu one last time in Professor Sycamore's laboratory but failed due to Ash's Greninja uses Cut to release Pikachu from their captivity allowing him and Alain's Charizard to blasts them off for the last time with a Thunderbolt and Flamethrower combination.
In the final episode, Till we Compete Again! in the XY series, they were informed again by Giovanni about their success in defeating Team Flare led by Lysandre and just like the previous episode, he tells them to return to Team Rocket HQ in Kanto to give them a reward. James, Jessie, Meowth, and Wobbuffet are last seen in the airport running in a hurry for their flight leads to the Kanto region.
James and the Team made a few more attemps to catch Pikachu, but to no avail. During one of their hunger walks, the Delibird from Team Rocket HQ brings them food and all the Pokemon that they have caught over the years (except for the ones they have released), with Giovanni ordering them to put the pokemon to good use. They follow this order by making a full on, last ditch attempt to catch Pikachu, but inevitably fail due to the unown Latias appearing. They get sent blasting off, and when crash landing, realize that the Team won't work after all. In the end, James splits up with Jessie and Meowth, and goes to Giovanni to request his permission for him to be working independently. Instead, he works at the HQ cafeteria, cooking food to the various Team Rocket Grunts. The new job is horrible, with even the breaks being short, but no matter what, he still holds anger to Jessie and Meowth. Off camera, he gives up on his chef job, and gets back with Jessie and Meowth, respectively. They finally corner Ash and Pikachu, reciting their motto for the last time, and almost catch the electric mouse Pokemon, if not for Pidgeot cutting out Pikachu at the 11th hour, and in the end get sent blasting off for the last time in the Anime. Before they do though, all three swear to be together forever, and to never give up on catching Pikachu. This is confirmed, when they are seen spying on the duo in their Hot Air Balloon.
Meowth ↔ Gigantamax Meowth ♂
Rotom Phone
This description is blank. You can improve the Pokémon Wiki by editing this template. Glalie
Weepinbell → Victreebel
Magikarp → Gyarados
Koffing → Weezing
Galarian Meowth
Dragonite ♀
Taillow (multiple)
Geodude (multiple)
Graveler (multiple)
Golem (multiple)
King Onix ♂
Malamar (3x)
Inkay (multiple)
Pumpkaboo ♀
Garchomp ↔ Mega Garchomp ♀
Pinsir ↔ Mega Pinsir
James's Darkinium Z.
Kanto is the original region introduced in the Pokémon franchise. It was then followed by Johto , Hoenn , Sinnoh , Unova , Kalos , Alola , Galar , and Paldea . It is modeled and named after the Kantō region of Japan , which includes, amongst other cities, the capital Tōkyō, where Game Freak is headquartered. Kanto is the only one that shares its name with a real-world location. The resemblance between the bay formations seen on the in-game map and the actual Sagami Bay, Suruga Bay, and Tokyo Bay formations is particularly striking. Kanto also has some elements of Chūbu.
Kanto lies to the east of Johto; they presumably make up a small continent; to the south of Kanto are the Sevii and Orange Islands . Hoenn, introduced in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version and Pokémon Emerald Version , is supposedly further to the southwest. Routes located wholly within Kanto are numbered 1 to 25; routes 26, 27, and 28 connect Kanto with Johto. Supposedly to the north of this continent is the Sinnoh region. Unova is in a considerable distance away and it's unknown where both it and Kalos are in relation to Kanto.
In the first generation of games for the Game Boy , Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version and Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , Kanto was the only region to explore, featuring a variety of environments, such as urban locales and mountainous, wooded and oceanic routes. In Gold, Silver and Crystal , which introduced Johto as a neighboring region to its west, the player character was able to travel to Kanto (by either steamboat, surfing or the magnet train) travelling between Goldenrod City in Johto and Saffron City in Kanto after completing their journeys through the latter. Since the Generation II games occupied an in-universe timeline a few years after their predecessors, some changes were introduced. In late 2004, Pocket Monsters Red Version and Pocket Monsters Green Version were remade as new titles for the Game Boy Advance called Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , which incorporated new elements. In late 2018, Pokémon Yellow was remade as two new games for the Nintendo Switch , Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! .
One area of the Kanto region, Saffron City appears in the form of a cityscape battlefield stage in the Super Smash Bros. series , first appearing in Super Smash Bros. , and it is a cityscape battlefield.
In Pokémon the Series , the protagonist Ash Ketchum is a resident of Pallet Town , and began his journey by touring Pokémon gyms in Kanto with Misty from Cerulean City and Brock from Pewter City . Season 1 and Season 9 of the anime are set in Kanto. Location names in the anime sometimes differ from those in the games. Season 23 and 24 of the anime is also the set in Kanto as Ash and his new friend Goh from Vermilion City work as research assistants.
Kanto region in the anime .
Most of the cities in Kanto, like Generation I games themselves, are named after colors, such as Pewter City , Viridian City , Saffron City , and so on. Pallet Town is the kickoff to the series of colors, as Pallet (Palette) is a collection of colors.
Pallet Town ( マサラタウン , Masara Taun ? ) is the hometown of the protagonist Ash Ketchum , of the Pokémon anime , and the Red of the Pokémon Adventures . It is also the home of Professor Oak , who gets them started with their first Pokémon , as well as Professor Oak's grandson (the player 's character-named rival in the games, Gary Oak in the anime, and Blue in Pokémon Adventures ). It is also a hometown to Delia Ketchum , the main protagonist, Ash Ketchum's mother. It is based on Satoshi Tajiri 's hometown, Shimoda.
Based on: Hakone
Viridian City ( トキワシティ , Tokiwa Shiti ? ) is the first major city where the player character visits in the games. It has the first Pokémon Centers and Poké Marts found in the game. At the Poké Mart, the player character will receive a package to deliver to Professor Oak in exchange for the Pokédex and 5 Poké Balls . When the player character first arrives, the gym is locked. Once the other seven Gym Leaders are defeated, the Viridian Gym Leader , who is revealed to be Giovanni , the villainous team leader of Team Rocket , will re-open his Ground -type gym. In later games, Blue replaces him.
In the Red, Green, and Blue chapter of Pokémon Adventures , Viridian City appeared in " Bulbasaur, Come Home! " when Red and Professor Oak were forced to chase some of the Pokémon, which Red had accidentally set free from the laboratory.
Viridian City make a brief appearance in " Make Way for Magmar! ", where local citizens were asking questions about the missing Gym Leader.
Red revisited Viridian City in " Drat That Dratini! ", after helping the young girl in the Viridian Forest. Upon hearing the rumors about the missing "invincible" Gym Leader, Red decided to check out the Gym again.
Based on: Maebashi
Pewter City ( ニビシティ , Nibi Shiti ? ) is located in the northwest of the region, between Viridian Forest and Mt. Moon . Pewter City is the first available city with a Gym Leader. Brock is the Pewter City Gym Leader and specializes in Rock -type Pokémon. The city has two exits, to the east is Route 3 leading to Route 4 and Mt. Moon and in the south is Route 2 leading to Viridian City.
Cerulean City ( ハナダシティ , Hanada Shiti ? ) is a seaside city located in the northern Kanto is the third city visited in the region by the protagonist, and the location of the second Gym Leader, Misty . She is a Water -type Trainer, who is in charge of a swimming pool-style arena. It has some remarkable places such as a bike shop and the gym. It is situated near the sea inlet to the north with Saffron City to the south and Mt. Moon to the west.
Cerulean City is also visited in the Red, Blue, Green and Yellow chapters of Adventures manga as well as in Zensho manga.
Based on: Yokohama
Vermilion City ( クチバシティ , Kuchiba Shiti ? ) is a large port city that is home to the Electric -type gym leader Lt. Surge . Vermilion City is the only Kanto city to have a port, which houses a luxurious ship known as the S.S Anne . The S. S Anne sails around the world and returns to Vermilion city once in a year. It sails from Olivine town in Johto to Vermilion harbor. In The Pokémon anime the S. S Anne was stink by team rocket. There, the player character will encounter the rival again and battle him. After the player character exits with the HM Cut , the ship will sail away. In FireRed and LeafGreen , after the player character earns the seventh gym badge, the port will be reopened again; it is used to connect the Kanto region with the Sevii Islands .
Asides from the harbor, the other exits to the city are Route 11 and Diglett's cave to the east. To the north is Route 6.
Based on: Narita
Lavender Town ( シオンタウン , Shion Taun ? ) is one of the smallest towns in the region. The town is believed to be haunted by Ghost -type Pokémon. Residents of the town include the kind Mr. Fuji , and the Name Rater, who allows the player character to change the nicknames of his or her Pokémon.
Based on: Shinjuku , Tokyo
Celadon City ( タマムシシティ , Tamamushi Shiti ? ) is the second largest city in the Kanto Region. It is home to a department store (the largest Poké Mart in Kanto), a hotel, a Game Corner and a mansion. The mansion is notable for having the Game Freak developers inside and being the only legitimate location to obtain an Eevee (only one per-game). The fourth Gym is found in Celadon City and houses Erika and her Trainers, who use mainly Grass -type Pokémon. In the anime , it is mentioned that this city is famous for its perfumes and scents. Erika here is also the manager of a perfume company.
Based on: Tateyama
Fuchsia City ( セキチクシティ , Sekichiku Shiti ? ) is the southernmost city on the Kanto mainland. It houses the Safari Zone and a Pokémon zoo. Koga is the Fuchsia City Gym Leader , and he uses Poison-type Pokémon. His gym contains invisible walls that force the player character to go around while battling Trainers. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , he is replaced by his daughter, Janine , since Koga was accepted into the Elite Four .
Saffron City ( ヤマブキシティ , Yamabuki Shiti ? ) is the largest city of Kanto, possibly based on Tokyo. It is most notable for housing Silph Co. , a massive office complex that spans 11 floors. It is also notable for having two separate gyms, though one is unofficial.
Based on: Izu Ōshima
Cinnabar Island ( グレンじま or グレンタウン , Guren-jima or Guren Taun ? ) is home to a laboratory and an old, abandoned mansion . The player can go to the laboratory to trade some Pokémon and identify the fossils found in Pewter City and Mt. Moon . The Gym is initially locked; after retrieving the key from the Pokémon Mansion, the player character can challenge the Gym Leader Blaine , a Fire-type Pokémon Trainer.
Viridian Forest ( トキワのもり , Tokiwa no Mori ? ) is a forest that lies between Viridian City and Pewter City . The woods are filled with a large quantity of Bug Pokémon and Bug-using Trainers. Inside, the Pokémon franchise's mascot, Pikachu , can be found. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the forest has been apparantly cut down and the tall grass removed, so wild Pokémon cannot be caught there, anymore. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , Viridian Forest made a return.
Mt. Moon ( オツキミやま , Otsukimi-yama ? ) is a mountain based on Mount Akagi that lies between Pewter City and Cerulean City . As it cannot be climbed, player characters must hike through the cave area. It is a three-floor dungeon with multiple paths. At the end of the path, a Super Nerd holds two fossils. After the player character defeats him, he concedes and lets the player character take one fossil, which can become either Omanyte or Kabuto . In the anime, it is shown as a worship place for Clefairy .
Near the city is the Cerulean Cave ( ハナダのどうくつ , Hanada no Dōkutsu ? ) , popularly known as the "Unknown Dungeon" ( ななしのどうくつ , Nanashi no Dōkutsu ? ) . It is an optional post-game dungeon filled with high-leveled Pokémon and is the home to the strongest legendary Pokémon in Kanto - if not the overall franchise, Mewtwo . The dungeon is so fearsome that a guard blocks the entrance, and will not let the player character through until he or she has beaten the Elite Four. In FireRed and LeafGreen , it cannot be accessed until the player character has repaired the machine on One Island .
In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the entrance has been flooded, and the player character cannot access the location. However, there is an item located in the water where the cave used to be. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , it returned, but only to those who got all 16 Badges .
Rock Tunnel ( イワヤマトンネル , Iwa Yama Tonneru ? ) lit. "rock mountain tunnel" is a pitch-black cave that connects Cerulean City and Lavender Town . Unlike later games, the cave is not completely dark. Therefore, the walls of the cave can still be seen which allows the player character to go through without the use of the HM Flash (though it is extremely difficult otherwise if played on an original Game Boy due to the low-contrast dark green screen).
Diglett's Cave is a long tunnel that was dug by wild Diglett and Dugtrio . Its entrances are south of Pewter City and east of Vermilion City. After the Trainer enters Cerulean City, the only foot-path back to Pewter City, Viridian City, and Pallet Town is through this cave. Wild Diglett and Dugtrio can be found in here.
Forest of Pikachu was a small forest clearing that had clans of Pikachu . It was only in the anime, specifically " Pikachu's Goodbye ". The main protagonist Ash Ketchum and the group came here as they find many other Pikachu in their adventure. Ash also decides to leave his Pikachu in this forest thinking it was good for it to stay here but changes his mind later.
The Safari Zone ( サファリゾーン , Safari Zōn ? ) is a wide-open area in Fuchsia City where the player character can play a Pokémon-catching game. For a small fee, the player characters are given thirty Safari Balls (a special type of Poké Ball that is green) and may capture Pokémon in the Safari Zone until they have walked 500 steps. player characters may not use Pokémon of their own to battle the wild Pokémon in the Safari Zone, and therefore have to face them, themselves (a first for the franchise). Several rare species of Pokémon such as Chansey are found nowhere else. In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the Safari Zone is not available because Baoba is on vacation. It reappears in FireRed and LeafGreen , but the option to save while there is removed; this could have been because of the Glitch City bug.
In HeartGold and SoulSilver , the Safari Zone was replaced with Pal Park and Baoba's granddaughter took over his office.
The Seafoam Islands ( ふたごじま , Futago-jima ? ) are a set of caves between Fuchsia City and Cinnabar Island . The legendary Pokémon Articuno resides in this area. During the second generation , as Cinnabar Island was destroyed by a volcano, Blaine moved his gym to the Seafoam Islands. Articuno has fled. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , the islands return and so as Articuno.
The Power Plant ( むじんはつでんしょ , Mujin Hatsudensho ? ) lit. "unmanned power plant" is an abandoned building found at the end of a waterway just before the entrance to Rock Tunnel . At the end of the building is the legendary Pokémon Zapdos . In Gold , Silver , and Crystal , the Power Plant has been reactivated and is used to run the Magnet Train. Zapdos, however, is no longer there.
The Victory Road ( チャンピオンロード , Chanpion Rōdo ? ) is a cave that holds the only way to the Indigo Plateau, accessed to the west and north of Viridian City . The protagonist must have all eight badges to enter. Victory Road contains many relatively high-level Pokémon, including the legendary Pokémon Moltres in the original Red and Blue versions of Pokémon . However, in the FireRed and LeafGreen remakes, Moltres has been moved to the Mt. Ember on the Sevii Islands.
The Indigo Plateau ( セキエイこうげん , Sekiei Kōgen ? ) is the headquarters of the Pokémon League , located in northwest Kanto. In order to reach Indigo Plateau, Trainers must collect all eight Gym Badges of Kanto or Johto and pass through Victory Road, a cave located at the foot of the Plateau.
Trainers face off with the Elite Four and the current Pokémon Champion to become the new Champion. The Elite Four are considered to be the strongest Trainers in the land, and each Trainer specializes in a different type of Pokémon. The player character must defeat all four Trainers and the Champion consecutively to defeat the game and be crowned as the new Champion. In the original games and FireRed and LeafGreen , the Champion is the player's rival, Blue , while Generation II and their remakes have Lance - originally one of the Elite Four, in this position. In Pokémon Let's Go, Pikachu and Eevee! , however, the standing Champion is Trace rather than Blue.
In the anime, an annual Pokémon League tournament is held in Indigo Stadium; the last Trainer standing is crowned Champion. It is unknown whether or not the Champion faces off against the Elite Four afterwards. The Pokémon Village, a resort which caters to the Pokémon Trainers and other people who have come to watch the competition, is located at the center of the Plateau. If Pokémon Contests are held in Kanto, the annual Grand Festival will be held here as well.
( / / ) ( Yellow )
The mythology surrounding the Johto region features Ho-Oh , the Rainbow Pokémon guardian of the skies, and Lugia , the Diving Pokémon guardian of the seas, who previously perched on the Bell and Brass Towers respectively in Ecruteak City . When the Brass Tower burned down in a storm, Lugia flew away, and three Pokémon died in the process. Ho-Oh revived these Pokémon, creating Raikou , Entei , and Suicune . Lugia's home, the Whirl Islands , were also created when the Pokémon dispelled a war over a singular island, splitting it into four islands and making them its home, producing powerful whirlpools to protect itself. Celebi , the Time Travel Pokémon, also calls Johto its home, residing in the Ilex Forest where it brings Pokémon and Trainers forward and back in time.
100 previously unknown Pokémon reside in Johto. In the Generation II games, the player character's hometown is New Bark Town , where they can choose either Chikorita , a grass type, Cyndaquil , a fire type, or Totodile , a water type as his/her first Pokémon.
In anime, Johto is the home region of Jimmy and his friends .
The terrain of Johto is similar to that of Kanto , since the two regions are connected, with a jagged mountain range in the northeast, descending to a boundless ocean in the southwest.
Johto's routes start where Kanto left off: routes in Johto are numbered 29–48, where Kanto's are 1-28.
The Johto League is the greatest aspiration of all Trainers. Because they are neighboring regions, Johto and Kanto share the same Elite Four , located at Indigo Plateau . The player character must have the required eight Gym Badges to enter.
Hoenn is based on the island of Kyūshū region in Japan and lies to the southwest of Kanto and Johto in the Pokémon world. It is the first of the two Sea Regions, the other being Alola . According to Pokémon legend, the Hoenn region was formed by the Legendary Continent Pokémon, Groudon raising the land and the Legendary Sea Basin Pokémon, Kyogre , expanding the sea. The Hoenn region contains its own Pokémon League called the Hoenn League, and its own Elite Four , unlike Johto and Kanto which share their Elite Four in the video games. Routes in Hoenn are numbered from 101 to 134 and do not follow sequentially from routes in Kanto-Johto, which were numbered 1 to 48.
Cities in Hoenn appear to be named after colors, similarly to Kanto's cities.
The Advanced Generation series in the anime occur here, as protagonist Ash Ketchum and company explore this new region featuring more than 100 new Pokémon. There is also an island called "Mirage Island" and it is located between Routes 111 and 112. LaRousse City , which was the setting for the animated film Pokémon: Destiny Deoxys , is in the eastern part of Hoenn. It is the first Pokémon region to feature a desert-like environment. After Ash's journey in the Kalos region, Serena decided to travel through Hoenn, currently competing in Pokémon Contests .
Littleroot Town ( ミシロタウン , Mishiro Taun ? ) is a small town with only three buildings and is the hometown of the protagonist's rival, who is Professor Birch 's child and is where Professor Birch's Lab is located. At the beginning of the story of the games, the protagonist moves into this town. It is based on Sasebo, Nagasaki, in Japan. Among the three buildings is Professor Birch's laboratory. Unlike in the previous Pokémon games, the player character does not receive his or her first Pokémon in the lab, but in the tall grass to the north, where the player character has to save Professor Birch by battling the wild Poochyena or Zigzagoon that was attacking him. One of the other two houses is the home of the protagonist, depending on your character gender.
Oldale Town ( コトキタウン , Kotoki Taun ? ) is the second town that the player character visits. It is the first town that the player character visits that has a Pokémart and Pokémon Center .
Oldale Town is a very small community in southern Hoenn. It is located between Route 101 in the south, Route 102 in the west, and Route 103 in the north. When you enter the town, the clerk from the Poké Mart will give you a quick tour.
The main character's rival in Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire (Brendan or May depending upon the player's selected gender), trains to the north of Oldale Town when the games begin.
In the anime, Ash and May arrive in this city, they meet Professor Birch and also have a small confrontation with Team Magma.
Petalburg City ( トウカシティ , Tōka Shiti ? ) is located in the southwest region of Hoenn. The gym leader is Norman , the player character's father, who uses Normal -type Pokémon. The player character also first meets Wally here.
In the anime, Ash arrives this city's gym in his first place.
Rustboro City ( カナズミシティ , Kanazumi Shiti ? ) is north of Petalburg City and houses the first gym leader that the player character can battle, Roxanne . She specializes in Rock -type Pokémon. It also includes the Devon Corporation , a large company that creates many items for trainers. A Pokémon Trainers' School is situated here.
Dewford Town ( ムロ島 or ムロタウン , Muro-jima or Muro Taun ? ) is the second town that features a gym. The Gym Leader is Brawly , who uses Fighting -type Pokémon.
Slateport City ( カイナシティ , Kaina Shiti ? ) is a large city with a marketplace for Secret Base items and a ferry link to Lilycove City . Slateport City also features the Oceanic Museum, a museum that is full of items and objects recovered from the sea. In the South Central part of Slateport, there is a market, featuring the Energy Guru, who sells the stat-enhancing Vitamins ( Calcium , Iron , etc.).
Mauville City ( キンセツシティ , Kinsetsu Shiti ? ) is a junction city. Roads from Mauville lead west to Verdanturf Town and Rustboro City , south to Slateport City , east to Fortree City and Lilycove City , and north to Fallarbor Town and Lavaridge Town . The Mauville City Gym Leader is Wattson , an Electric -type trainer.
Verdanturf Town ( シダケタウン , Shidake Taun ? ) is a small town with only one major landmark. In Ruby and Sapphire , the Normal Rank Contest Hall is here. In Emerald , it is replaced by a Battle Tent , a test to see how loyal your Pokémon are. The prize is a Nest Ball , obtainable only in Verdanturf Town.
Fallarbor Town ( ハジツゲタウン , Hajitsuge Taun ? ) lies north of Mt. Chimney. Most of its inhabitants work in agriculture; the soil is very fertile because of its high content of volcanic ash. In Ruby and Sapphire, the town is home to the Super Rank Pokémon Contest Hall. In Emerald, it is replaced by the Battle Tent.
Lavaridge Town ( フエンタウン , Fuen Taun ? ) is located at the foothills of Mt. Chimney. The Lavaridge Pokémon Center is connected to a hot spring, which is what Lavaridge Town is famous for all over the Hoenn region. An old lady in front of the hot springs will give the player character a Pokémon egg , which hatches into Wynaut . The Gym Leader of Lavaridge is Flannery , who uses Fire -types.
Fortree City ( ヒワマキシティ , Hiwamaki Shiti ? ) is a city built atop the trees (everything except the Pokémon Center, the Poké Mart and the Gym), giving it its name. The Gym Leader is Winona , who uses Flying -type Pokémon. An invisible Kecleon is found near here.
Lilycove City ( ミナモシティ , Minamo Shiti ? ) is a port city in northeast Hoenn. It houses a huge department store, an art museum, and a contest hall . In Ruby and Sapphire, it is the Master Rank Hall, and in Emerald, all Pokémon Contests are located here.
Mossdeep City ( トクサネシティ , Tokusane Shiti ? ) is an island city in the north-east of Hoenn. It is based on Tanegashima, Japan. The Gym Leaders are the twins Tate and Liza , who specialize in Psychic -types.
Sootopolis City ( ルネシティ , Rune Shiti ? ) is a city built in the cone of an extinct volcano. It is based on Santorini, Greece. The player character enters the city for the first time from underwater. The last Gym is located here, as well as the Cave of Origin. If the player character follows the plot, his or her first visit to Sootopolis City is during the time the weather in Hoenn has been disrupted by Groudon (Ruby), Kyogre (Sapphire), or both (Emerald). Player characters can head to Sootopolis City at an earlier time as long as they have received the Dive HM and Mossdeep Gym badge. Sootopolis City is the home of the last gym that can be challenged by the player character, whose leader is Wallace in Ruby, Sapphire , Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire , and Juan in Emerald , both of whom specialize in Water types.
Pacifidlog Town ( キナギタウン , Kinagi Taun ? ) is an isolated settlement in the south of Hoenn. The entire town is said to have been built on top of a colony of Corsola . The town uses wooden planks to connect the buildings together, and as such, the player character can neither run nor use his or her bicycle here. Although the town itself contains little of interest, it is in close proximity to the Sealed Chamber , Mirage Island , and Sky Pillar .
Ever Grande City ( サイユウシティ , Saiyū Shiti ? ) consists of two parts: the area before Victory Road, which has a Pokémon Center , and the area after it, which contains the Hoenn Pokémon League building.
Petalburg Woods is a Hoenn forest. This is the only place to catch Slakoth . A Team Aqua or Team Magma grunt with a Level 9 Poochyena attacks a person working for Devon Corporation here. In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire in a cut scene you can see Zinnia .
The Devon Corporation is very similar to Silph Co. from Kanto and is the Hoenn equivalent. It is also rumored to run the Pokémarts in Hoenn. Devon Corp. is owned by Mr. Stone, and it plays an important role in the games, allowing the player character to receive certain important items and revive fossils into Pokémon . The Devon Corp. headquarters are the target for robbery by Team Aqua and Team Magma . After the player character stops their crimes, Mr. Stone will ask the player character to deliver a letter to his son Steven Stone , and a Package to Captain Stern, in Slateport City. He will reward the player character with his or her PokéNav .The player character can also revive fossils here.
The Rusturf Tunnel is a tunnel between Rustboro City and Verdanturf Town . Its name is a portmanteau of the first and last parts of the two cities that the tunnel joins. In the video games, construction has stopped because of concerns over disturbing the Whismur in the cave. Once the player character has the HM Rock Smash , he or she can break a rock to open the tunnel up and get the HM Strength .
The Granite Cave is an area to the Northwest of Dewford Town. In the video games, a hiker at the entrance will give the HM Flash to the player character, which can be used to increase vision in the pitch-dark basement (similar to the Rock Tunnel in the Kanto region). The player character must go through the cave to deliver a letter to a man named Steven Stone . It is the only place in the games where player characters may obtain Nosepass . In the Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire remakes where the player finds Steven a wall painting of Groudon (Omega Ruby) or Kyogre (Alpha Sapphire).
The Meteor Falls is a waterfall -filled cave located near Fallarbor Town. Lunatone can be found here in Sapphire Version and Solrock can be found here in Ruby and Emerald .
Though player characters will initially have to pass through the area early on in the games to save Prof. Cosmo from Team Aqua or Team Magma, the majority of the area is not accessible to player characters until late in the game, when the HM Waterfall is available. Of interest to trainers is the rare Dragon Pokémon Bagon , which is only found deep inside the caves. Additionally, in Emerald , the player character may challenge Steven Stone after defeating the Elite Four .
Mt. Pyre is a Pokémon graveyard, similar to Kanto's Pokémon Tower . It consists of two areas: the inside, a "cave" filled with Pokémon trainers that functions as a graveyard, and the outer mountain, which can be reached by exiting from inside. Mt. Pyre is considered the counterpart of the Cave of Origin (the cave where life begins), as Mt. Pyre is "the place where life ends". Atop the mountain is an old couple who guard two orbs, the Red Orb , and Blue Orb . They are the grandparents of Phoebe of the Elite Four .
Mt. Pyre plays a major role in the video games. In Ruby player characters have to battle with Team Magma members as they steal the Blue Orb to control Groudon , while in Sapphire and Emerald , the player character is forced to battle Team Aqua members who are trying to steal the Red Orb to control Kyogre . In Emerald , after Groudon and Kyogre disappear at Sootopolis City, Team Magma leader Maxie and Team Aqua leader Archie return both orbs to their respective perches at the summit of Mt. Pyre, providing closure to the game's main plot.
The Cave of Origin is located at the north end of Sootopolis City. It is guarded by Wallace / Juan of Sootopolis Gym and is said to be a cave where life begins. Its opposite landmark is Mt. Pyre , said to be the place where life ends. Residents of Sootopolis are not permitted to enter the Cave of Origin. The contents of the cave are different in each game: In Ruby and Sapphire, the player character finds Groudon or Kyogre, respectively, and must defeat or capture it to proceed. In Emerald, Wallace is inside the Cave of Origin and knows how to stop the scuffle between Kyogre and Groudon.
After performing the necessary steps to quell the ancient Pokémon, player characters can enter the Gym and battle Wallace (Ruby and Sapphire) or his mentor Juan (Emerald). Both use Water-type Pokémon.
Victory Road ( チャンピオンロード , Chanpion Rōdo ? , lit. Champion Road in Japanese ) is a large cave that leads to the Pokémon League . It holds many trainers aspiring to reach the Pokémon League. During some point in Victory Road, a boy named Wally will catch up to the player character and battle. The player character originally mentored Wally at the beginning of the game, and Wally has matured into a strong opponent. It is accessed from the southern portion of Ever Grande and requires Rock Smash, Strength, and Waterfall to traverse. Since most of the cave is dark, it is harder to explore without the use of Flash.
The Sky Pillar is an abandoned tower to the north-east of Pacifidlog Town that is home to very strong Pokémon. Though an optional dungeon in Ruby and Sapphire, it plays a major role in Emerald; the player character needs to go to Sky Pillar to summon Rayquaza to solve the fight between Kyogre and Groudon in Sootopolis City . When the player character reaches the top of Sky Pillar (in Emerald, the second visit), Rayquaza can be fought and captured.
In Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire , the Battle Tower ( バトルタワー , Batoru Tawā ? ) is located on a small island. Its motto is "Win it all and be the best, Trainers!" To access the facility, the player character must first defeat the Elite Four , then receive the S.S. Tidal Ticket from the protagonist's father, Norman. After journeying on the newly completed ship, the player character will gain the option to visit the Battle Tower .
The Southern Island can only be unlocked using the Eon Ticket, which can only be obtained in the game from a special event, or by mixing records with someone who has the Ticket. Southern Island is located, as the name suggests, in the south of the region, just west of the Battle Frontier . One cannot Surf to get to the island; instead, they must board the ferry at Lilycove City with an Eon Ticket to get there. The island only exists to enable the player character to get both Latias and Latios .
In Pokémon Ruby , Latias will be found on the Southern Island, while in Pokémon Sapphire , Latios will be found instead.
Once you have successfully defeated the Pokémon league, a newsflash will appear on TV saying that a certain color Pokémon was seen in Hoenn (for Pokémon Emerald only). The character's mother will ask if it was red or blue. If you answer red, you find Latias in the wild, and Latios at Southern Island. If you answer blue, Latios appears in the wild and Latias at Southern Island.
Like the previous regions in the previous games, Sinnoh features a broad range of environments for the player character to explore. The region is mountainous and temperate; for the first time in a Pokémon RPG, it features snowy routes. While this region's location with relation to other regions portrayed in the franchise is unknown, Ash Ketchum refers to Sinnoh as an island during the English dub of the last episode of season 9 of the anime , while Professor Oak mentions that it's located to the north of the Kanto / Johto landmass. The in-game map shows that the region consists of about 70% land and 30% water. There are thirty routes in Sinnoh numbered 201 to 230 and, like the Hoenn region before it, do not follow sequentially from the previous region's routes: routes in Hoenn, the previous region, were numbered 101 to 134.
Sinnoh has four lakes, each of which houses a legendary Pokémon : Lake Acuity houses Uxie , Lake Valor houses Azelf , Lake Verity houses Mesprit , and the secret Sendoff Spring houses Giratina inside Turnback Cave . Sinnoh is based on the geography of the Japanese island of Hokkaidō, the southern tip of the island of Sakhalin and the disputed island of Kunashir (Kunashiri).
Sinnoh features an extensive underground area called "The Underground" (lKnown as the "The Grand Underground" in Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl). In this area, a Player can dig for stones, items and spheres, which can be exchanged for items with underground barterers. This is where fossils can be found instead of obtaining one and not being able to collect the other such as in Pokémon Emerald Version. The player character can also use DS Wireless Communication compete with player characters within the area to a game of 'Capture the Flag'.
Twinleaf Town ( フタバタウン , Futaba Taun ? ) is the town in which the protagonists of Diamond and Pearl , the player character and their archrival, reside and from which they begin their journey across the region of Sinnoh, located at the south of Route 201, southwest of Sandgem Town, southeast of Lake Verity, and north of a small pond where the player goes to in the beginning.
Sandgem Town ( マサゴタウン , Masago Taun ? ) houses the laboratory of Professor Rowan , an accomplished professor whose expertise concerns Pokémon , and features the game's first Pokémon Center and Poké Mart . It is also home to Professor Rowan 's assistant Dawn/Lucas, and is where the player character gets the National Pokédex after seeing 150 Pokémon of the Sinnoh region.
Jubilife City ( コトブキシティ , Kotobuki Shiti ? ) houses a television station, the Trainer's School , "Pokétch Company", the company which makes the Pokétch, and the Global Trade Station or GTS , which allows for trading over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
Oreburgh City ( クロガネシティ , Kurogane Shiti ? ) is a coal-mining city, home to the first Sinnoh region Gym Leader - Roark . The city is powered by coal and it also houses a museum which revives the fossils of ancient Pokémon .
Floaroma Town ( ソノオタウン , Sonō Taun ? ) is a flower-loving city, where many of the fields have endless amounts of flowers in them — of all colors. Many Trainers are attracted to the city because of the fragrant smell. The Pokémon Contests have relevance in this town, because of the Pick a Peck of Flowers Shop, where one can purchase Pokémon accessories. There is also a man that sells honey in the flower fields.
Eterna City ( ハクタイシティ , Hakutai Shiti ? ) is home to the second Gym Leader, Gardenia , as well as a Bicycle Shop and a Team Galactic building. The Underground Man also lives in Eterna, he will give the player character the Exploration Kit, allowing the player character to enter the Underground and he will continue to tutor the player character on the underground.
Veilstone City ( トバリシティ , Tobari Shiti ? ) is home to the third Gym Leader, Maylene , as well as a Department Store, Game Corner (which it is very famous for), and Team Galactic 's official Regional Headquarters and Warehouse. To the east of Veilstone are boulders which can change the form of the player character's Deoxys . In the anime, it is the hometown of Paul .
Celestic Town ( カンナギタウン , Kannagi Taun ? ) is a small town just right next to Eterna City. It is home to an ancient artifact honoring the legendary Pokémon Uxie , Mesprit , Azelf , Dialga , and Palkia . It, like Eterna city, is very traditional and houses many legends.
Pastoria City ( ノモセシティ , Nomose Shiti ? ) is home to the fourth Gym Leader, Crasher Wake , as well as the Great Marsh , Diamond and Pearl's equivalent of the Safari Zone . Lake Valor is in between Pastoria. Team Galactic uses the Great Marsh here to test the Galactic Bomb.
Hearthome City ( ヨスガシティ , Yosuga Shiti ? ) is home to the fifth Gym Leader (third in Platinum ), Fantina , as well as the Pokémon Super Contest Hall it was also voted the most desirable place in Sinnoh. It also has Amity Square, in which one can take walks with "cute" Pokémon. (According to the game, the only permitted Pokémon are Pikachu , Clefairy , Jigglypuff , Psyduck , Torchic , Shroomish , Skitty , Pachirisu , Drifloon , Buneary , Happiny , and the Sinnoh starters) Accessories for Pokémon Super Contests can be collected every 200 steps. Hearthome City is where Bebe is, she will give you an Eevee.
Solaceon Town ( ズイタウン , Zui Taun ? ) is home to a Day-care Center. Nearby is the Solaceon Ruins, which contain the Unown .
Canalave City ( ミオシティ , Mio Shiti ? ) is home to the sixth Gym Leader, Byron . Canalave City also has a port in which the player character can board a ship to Iron Island, an island off Sinnoh. The city also houses the Harbor Inn, which the player character must access to capture Darkrai via an event.
Snowpoint City ( キッサキシティ , Kissaki Shiti ? ) is home to the seventh Gym Leader, Candice , and a temple containing the Legendary Pokémon Regigigas . On certain predetermined days, a weather effect called diamond dust occurs. In Pokémon Platinum for the Nintendo DS, this occurs on the users birthday, which is set in the control panel.
Sunyshore City ( ナギサシティ , Nagisa Shiti ? ) is home to the eighth Gym Leader, Volkner , a market for buying seals that can be placed on Poké Balls and a lighthouse that overlooks the Pokémon League . Much of the city is powered by solar cells. Also, the Olivine City Gym Leader, Jasmine, is present by the route to the Pokémon League. The city experiences a crippling blackout until the player character engages Team Galactic and Dialga or Palkia at Spear Pillar.
The Pokémon League (Sinnoh) ( ポケモンリーグ , Pokemon Rīgu ? ) Headquarters is portrayed as a magnificent castle at the top of a large waterfall in Diamond and Pearl .
Eterna Forest is large forest in the Sinnoh region which leads to Eterna City . Here, the player character can meet Cheryl , who will travel with the player character until they reach the end, and will then give the player character a Soothe Bell.
The Old Chateau ( もりのようかん , Mori no Youkan ? ) is a crumbling haunted mansion in Eterna Forest. The player character can acquire Rotom here. There are several ghosts which appear on occasion, although they can not be interacted with. You need to go to the Old Chateau during the night to get Rotom.
The Mt. Coronet is tallest mountain in Sinnoh. It divides Sinnoh in half. Notable features include the Spear Pillar, where the climax of the story occurs. The player character battles Team Galactic Admins and then their Leader. You can catch Palkia or Dialga here. Arceus can be caught if the player character has the Azure Flute.
The Solaceon Ruins is a cave in Solaceon Town that is home to the Unown . It is also is home to three evolution stones using the dowsing app. You can also find the HM defog.
The Great Marsh ( だいしつげん , Dai Shitsugen ? ) is where the Safari Game is held. The Great Marsh is a large area divided into six smaller areas labelled from one to six. Instead of normal grass, Pokémon in the Great Marsh are found in grassy mud. After the National Dex is obtained several new Pokémon can be found; these include Tropius, Carvanha, Yanma etc.
The Pokémon Mansion a large mansion with a trophy garden at the back. After the National Dex is obtained several new species of Pokémon can be found in the garden, in order to find them the player character must talk to the owner who will then send out his butler to investigate. you can also fight 5 maids after you defeat them all you can fight a rich boy. On the east side of the mansion a maid is in the way and says "I'm very sorry but you can't go through here."
Iron Island ( こうてつじま , Kōtetsu-jima ? ) is the training place of the people of Canalave City's Gym and Riley , a Trainer who gives the player character a Riolu egg. There is a cabin where Byron lives, and a cave.
Fullmoon Island ( まんげつじま , Mangetsu-jima ? ) is home to the Legendary Pokémon Cresselia . It runs away after the player character sees it long enough for it to be entered into the Pokédex.
Turnback Cave's location.
Turnback Cave ( もどりのどうくつ , Modori no Doukutsu ? , lit. Recovery Cave in original Japanese language versions ) is at the center of Sendoff Spring, the fourth lake of Sinnoh that was hidden long ago. It leads into an alternate dimension, where Giratina is housed.
Newmoon Island ( しんげつじま , Shingetsu-jima ? ) is home to the Mythical Pokémon Darkrai , but can only be reached with a "Member's Card", or a cheat device.
The Flower Paradise ( はなのらくえん , Hana no Rakuen ? ) is accessed with a special item called "Oak's Letter," which must be obtained through a Nintendo event. Shaymin is available here.
The Hall of Origin ( はじまりのま , Hajimari no Ma ? ) is accessed with a special item called "Azure Flute", which must be obtained through a Nintendo event. The Hall of Origin is located high above Spear Pillar on Mt. Coronet, where the player character battles Dialga or Palkia. Arceus resides in the Hall of Origin. The hall of origin is the highest reachable point in Sinnoh.
The Distortion World is a alternative dimension that appears in Pokémon Platinum . The main story is about this place. It's lubricated in the peak of Mt. Coronet.
In this place, the Time ( Dialga ) and Space ( Palkia ) rules don't apply.
This is also the home of the Legendary Pokémon Giratina 's Origin Forme.
In the sequel game, ice and snow have covered most of the region, changing its landscape and the towns located around it. There are also even different Gym Leaders from the previous game. A reason behind the change of landscape lay in the awakening of Reshiram and Zekrom in the previous adventure.
In Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet , it is revealed that the Blueberry Academy (the main setting for the Indigo Disk) takes place in Unova.
Location of Unova on Pokémon world.
The Unova starters, Snivy , Tepig and Oshawott .
Nuvema Town is the first town in Unova, which is a very small area. This town is the dwelling of the player character and their rivals/childhood friends, Bianca and Cheren , and it is also where Professor Juniper 's Lab is located and is where the player character begins their journey. It is connected to Route 1 and is on the southeastern coast of the Unova region. This is where the player first starts out in Pokémon Black and White . The player character also gets to choose their starter Pokémon here. Bianca will choose the starter weaker to yours while Cheren will choose the stronger one. The player character can choose from the following starters:
Aspertia City is the first city in Unova in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 that has a Pokémon Center , a Pokémon Gym , and several miscellaneous buildings. It is the first starting location for the player character that is a city. Aspertia City's Normal -type Gym Leader is Cheren . From this mountainous place, all of Unova can be seen.
Floccesy Town is a small town located in the southwestern part of Unova. It is home to former Unova champion, Alder . Floccesy Ranch and Pledge Grove lie near Floccesy Town. This area is only accessible in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 .
Virbank City is a city located in the southwestern part of Unova. It is home to the Pokéstar Studios . Trainers can challenge the Virbank City Gym against the rocking Poison -type Gym Leader Roxie for the Toxic Badge . There is also a port located at the edge of the town where it gives you access to a ship that you can take to Castelia City. This area is only accessible in Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 .
Accumula Town is a small town renowned for its hills and great views. It is here Professor Juniper tells you about the Pokémon Center and the shop inside it to help prepare you for your journey. After exiting the Pokémon Center, you encounter Cheren , who leads you to the town plaza, where you see Team Plasma for the first time with Ghetsis , who gives a speech to the crowd about liberating Pokémon so that they can truly be equals with people. However, his words do not move the crowd much. After Team Plasma and the crowd leaves, a mysterious N gets left behind and asks you to battle him, he is shown to support Team Plasma's wishes to liberate Pokémon and is later revealed to be the King of Team Plasma.
Striaton City is the first city you enter in Pokémon Black and White . This city features the first gym, run by the Gym Leaders Cilan , Chili , and Cress . The Gym Leader you battle depends on your starter type, which will be at a type disadvantage to the Leader's Pokémon. In addition to this, Professor Juniper 's friend Fennel lives here and does her research into the Dream World. This is where you'll need to go in order to send your Pokémon from your game to the Dream World and back again. Upon seeking out a Munna to obtain the Dream Mist Fennel needs to help operate her machine, you head for the Dream Yard and reunite with Bianca . With her, you enter the deepest part of the Dream Yard and find a Munna being abused by two Team Plasma grunts who are also after the Dream Mist. Despite beating both grunts in Pokémon Battle, the player character and Bianca are unable to prevent the grunts from further injuring the Munna. Luckily, a Munna's evolved form Musharna comes to its rescue and uses its Dream Mist to fool the grunts into thinking Ghetsis is scolding them and causes them to flee. Fennel comes and finds some leftover Dream Mist and thanks the player character for their cooperation while Bianca decides to chase after Munna to capture it. Also, if you speak to a Trainer in the Dream Yard, you will receive one of the three element monkey Pokémon that has a disadvantage against the player character's starter.
Nacrene City is an incredibly old city with rail tracks and warehouses that have been abandoned for over 100 years. It has a massive museum dedicated to archaeology and is home to the second Gym of Unova, run by the Gym Leader Lenora . Upon winning at the Gym, Team Plasma arrives and steals the skull from a Dragonite skeleton on display, believing it to hold the essence of Reshiram /Zekrom (depends on version). Also, the player character briefly reunites with Cheren and Bianca while meeting the third Unova Gym Leader, the artistic Burgh . Per Lenora's request, the player character joins Burgh in investigating Pinwheel forest to return the skull. After you go to the Desert Resort and search for the light stone/dark stone (depends on version) Lenora calls for you and says she has the stone. You receive the stone and are told to head to the final Gym Leader in Unova to learn more about the legend. If you go back to the Desert Resort, in Relic Castle, there is a backpacker who will let you choose from two fossils and you can go to Nacrene Gym to revive the fossil and you'll get a new Pokémon!
Castelia City is a journey across the Skyarrow Bridge which leads you to this thriving metropolis beside the sea. Unlike previous cities, this one is much, much bigger. It features a variety of areas and utilizes the DS's 3D graphic engine to show the city from a wide range of camera angles and uses a vast amount of interactivity. There are countless skyscrapers piercing the clouds, five piers which harbor boats and, of course, the Castelia City Gym. Upon arrival in the city, the player character decides to challenge Burgh, only to arrive at the Gym to see Cheren has won his badge already. Trying to challenge Burgh himself/herself, the player character bumps into Burgh who explains that there is trouble brewing in the city and is told to met him at the largest pier. There, the payer finds Bianca again, but she is accompanied by another Trainer named Iris . It is revealed that Team Plasma has stolen Bianca's Munna and have eluded Iris in her search through the city. The player character and Burgh find Team Plasma has hidden out in the building directly in front of Burgh's Gym. There, the player character once again meets Ghetsis and another of his colleagues he calls a fellow member of the Seven Sages . Through negotiation, Munna is returned to Bianca and Team Plasma escapes through use of a smoke screen. The player character then challenges Burgh and the Gym and earns the Insect Badge. Upon leaving Castelia City, the player character is challenged by Bianca to battle her Pokémon to see how they've grown. Castelia City is Unova's largest city.
Nimbasa City is a bustling city of entertainment, which has it's very own theme park with the fourth gym inside. After riding roller coasters, you can challenge the fourth Gym Leader of the Unova region. The Musical Theater is located here, as well as two sports stadiums and the Battle Subway . It is known that if Castelia City is the place of business, Nimbasa City is the place of leisure. Upon arriving in Nimbasa City, the player character saves the Daycare man from Team Plasma and meets Bianca yet again. The player character then has the choice to follow her to the theater or head to the amusement park to follow the Team Plasma grunts. If the player character follows Bianca, both are gifted Prop cases for their Pokémon if they choose to enter them in the Musical Theater. Upon exiting the theater, Bianca's Dad arrives and tries to take her back home. Luckily, Elesa arrives and convinces him to let Bianca continue journeying to discover herself. If the player character chooses to follow Team Plasma, they arrive in front of the Ferris Wheel and meet N again. He explains that he is the king of Team Plasma and that he seeks to liberate Pokémon from people. The two grunts arrive to save their king, but N instead decides to cover their escape. After beating N, the player character learns of N's plan to revive one of the legendary Pokémon and use it to help his cause. However, he then adds that if the player character wishes to stop him, he/she should revive the legendary Pokémon's equal. Upon exiting Nimbasa City, the player character is once again confronted by Cheren for a battle, After the battle, both are met by Elesa, who introduces them to Alder , the Unova champion. Cheren becomes agitated by Alder as he questions his view of what becoming the champion means. They are then brought to the Charizard Bridge to be allowed access to the next city and challenge the Gym Leader.
Anville Town is an idyllic, peaceful town which can only be accessed by boarding a train in the Battle Subway. It has a rail yard where trains park for an overhaul. At the weekends, traders gather to exchange goods.
Driftveil City is a port town distributing many goods, it's home to the fifth Gym. It has its own market and Cold Storage is a short walk away. Upon arriving in town, the player character and Cheren are blamed by Clay for the escape of Team Plasma due to the bridge's lowering. However, they are offered a deal, capture Team Plasma and they can challenge his Gym. Working together, the player character and Cheren find Team Plasma hiding in a Cold Storage container with one of the Seven Sages . Upon the player character and Cheren's defeat of the grunts, Clay arrives with Cold Storage workers to arrest Team Plasma. However, once the player character leaves afterwards and arrives at the Gym for a battle, Ghetsis has arrived with back up and has the captured operatives of Team Plasma released into his custody. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 , the Pokémon World Tournament is where the Cold Storage used to be.
Mistralton City is notable for having the first airport in a Pokémon game, the city operates a cargo plane service transporting goods. It is also where the Flying -type Gym is located. Trainers who want to adjust their Pokémon's moveset can go here for the Move Family. Upon arriving in the city, the player character meets Professor Juniper 's dad, also a professor, who updates the Pokédex for the player character. The player character meets Skyla and is led to Celestial Tower . There, Skyla has the player character ring the bell on top to learn what kind of person the player character is. Upon learning the answer, Skyla returns to the Gym to be challenged. After earning the sixth Unova badge, the player character once again battles Team Plasma's king and has his or her Pokémon's words listened to. N does feel some sorrow over having to separate Pokémon and people who truly care for each other like the player character does, but still plans to go on ahead. After getting the HM Surf and defeating the Elite Four, the player character can return and find Mistralton Cave to catch Cobalion .
Lentimas Town is a town located in central eastern Unova. The town can be accessed by airplane from Mistralton City. The town is located in the middle of a windy passage.
Icirrus City is a city with varied wetlands and windmills. The city looks entirely different during winter. Brycen is the Leader of the Gym here. The player character once again encounters Professor Juniper (Senior) at the edge of town and is told one of the legendary Pokémon sleeps inside. However, the player character must defeat Brycen in a Gym battle first to continue the story. Upon winning and leaving the Gym, the player character reunites with both Cheren and Bianca . However, Brycen exits the Gym and tells Cheren to wait for a Gym battle as something is amiss. They head for Dragon Spiral tower. Inside are numerous Team Plasma members and one of the Seven Sages . With the help of Cheren and Brycen, the player character makes his/her way up to the top to find N has awoken Reshiram / Zekrom (depends on which version) and explains that once he defeats Alder , he will have the authority to make his plan become reality. N then tells the player character to find the dark stone/light stone and awaken Zekrom / Reshiram and counter his plans at the Pokémon League if he/she dares before flying off.
Opelucid City in White is an old and historical city. However, in Black, it is a modern, bordering on futuristic. It is here the player character learns more about the Unova founding myth and the Pokémon that caused it. Upon winning the eighth Gym badge, the player character meets up with Professor Juniper once again and is shown the way to Route 10 to head for the Pokémon League. The Gym Leader also depends on the version. In Black, it's Iris's mentor Drayden and in White, it's Iris herself. This is possibly to coincide with the Yin/Yang theme the games have. You also get your Master Ball in this city.
Humilau City is a city in northeastern Unova. Trainers can challenge the Water -type Gym against Leader Marlon for the Wave Badge .
Pokémon League is the ultimate goal for Trainers, beat the Elite Four and the Champion here to be enshrined in the Hall of Fame .
Lacunosa Town is a tiny town with little more than a Pokémon Center . The people here believe a legend, which says that a monster attacks at night, and do not venture outdoors after dark. It is a good place to heal your Pokémon and obtain some information on the Giant Chasm .
Undella Town is the beach town that acts as a summer retreat for many famous and wealthy people, including the Elite Four and Cynthia .
Black City is exclusive in Pokémon Black. It's a dark city ruled by greed. Many battles can be fought here, and rare items can be bought at the market.
White Forest is exclusive in Pokémon White. A peaceful forest which attracts people and Pokémon alike.
The Liberty Garden is an area of Unova located on an island. You can only gain access to it through a boat on Castelia City after you've obtained the Liberty Pass key item from a Wi-Fi Event. On this island is a lighthouse where you'll encounter Team Plasma and the legendary Pokémon Victini .
In the middle of the region, lies a place of mysterious power, the Entralink , it can only be accessed by warping through the C-Gear .
P2 Laboratory is Team Plasma's small, secret research lab. One can find it, surrounded by rapids, in Route 17 on the northern island.
The Dreamyard is an old factory site often used as a playground by children and Pokémon, here one can find a girl who wants to give a Pokémon. The Dreamyard has several areas unlocked after completing the main game.
The Wellspring Cave first cave that can be visited; Team Plasma flee here after stealing a girl's Pokémon.
Pinwheel Forest is a dense forest with many patches of grass, fallen trees, and the Challenge Rock . One can either explore the complicated maze of trees or stick to the road for a straight path.
Ancient ruins located in the desert, named the Relic Castle , surrounded by odd Pokémon statues. The floor has quicksand here and there, and if trying to walk through it, the player character will fall to the lower floor. Other than receiving a fossil , there isn't much to do here until one visits Dragonspiral Tower . After completing Dragonspiral Tower the first time, the player character is able to explore the lower floors. It is also the location where the player character first encounters Ryoku of the Seven Sages and Volcarona .
To the south of Driftveil City one'll find these chilled warehouses, called Cold Storage , storing an array of goods and serving as a hiding place for Team Plasma . The Cold Storage is no longer present in Black and White 2 and is replaced by the Pokémon World Tournament.
A forgotten cave located on Route 6 , named Mistralton Cave . It's said to be sealed with hints of a legend 's presence. Cobalion can be found in here in Pokemon Black & White . It is the only place where wild Axew can be caught.
Chargestone Cave is literally charged with energy, causing stones to float. These stones can be pushed to unblock pathways.
A memorial tower dedicated to deceased Pokémon, located on Route 7 . Ringing the large bell on the top floor is said to purify spirits.
Primarily a mine used to collect valuable minerals, the Twist Mountain also serves as a path connecting Route 7 and Icirrus City . Many items are buried away here, and the winter season has a drastic impact on the caves. If the player character goes to the lowest cave, there is a man that gives the player character a fossil.
No one knows the history of the oldest tower in Unova, although there are rumors of a Dragon Pokémon on its summit. It plays a major role in the game's plot. N awakens Reshiram or Zekrom (depending on the version) at the top of the tower and a backpacker gives you a fossil.
A detour from Route 8 brings the player character to the Moor of Icirrus . In winter, the swamps freeze over.
Pokéstar Studios allows the player character to perform a movie. Characters such as Brycen plays a role in Pokéstar Studios.
The Pokémon World Tournament is a feature in which Trainers can partake in a tournament against other Trainers in a single or double battle. It is held in Driftveil City , hosted by Cynthia , the Sinnoh League Champion.
Above Route 20 in Black and White Versions 2 lies Floccesy Ranch , where the player character must retrieve a stolen Herdier from a Team Plasma grunt for a farmer on the ranch.
Pledge Grove is a forest where Keldeo can learn the move Secret Sword and transform into its Resolute Form.
A cave where the player character disperses the Sinnoh Lake Trio, making them available for capture around the Unova region.
Clay Tunnel and Underground Ruins connect to various locations, accessible only after defeating the Elite Four. It contains ruins inside, wherein Regirock , Regice , and Registeel can be captured.
Reversal Mountain is a place in which Heatran can be captured.
An airship that serves as Team Plasma's headquarters and main means of transport, the Plasma Frigate is an area the player character will frequently enter to stop Team Plasma's plans.
The Nature Preserve is a faraway forest-like area north of Mistralton City in which a Shiny Haxorus can be captured.
On Route 9 , the Challenger's Cave is a cave that opens after completing the main story. It's pitch black and requires the use of Flash to explore properly. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the cave has collapsed and cannot be entered.
The notorious road makes a return in Generation V . It's the final test for Trainers hoping to take on the challenge of the Pokémon League . One is also able to battle the rival here. In Pokémon Black 2 and White 2, the original Victory Road caved in. Parts of the new one takes place in the ruins of N's Castle.
The First partner Pokémon of this region are the Grass -type Chespin , the Fire -type Fennekin , and the Water -type Froakie . The player would find Xerneas X / Yveltal Y , Zygarde , Mewtwo and one of the Legendary Birds in Kalos.
In Pokémon Legends: Z-A , its First partner Pokémon are the Grass -type Chikorita , Fire -type Tepig , and the Water -type Totodile .
In Pokémon the Series: XY and XYZ , it is the home region of Serena , Clemont , and Bonnie .
Vaniville Town is where the Calem / Serena moves in the start of the game. It is home to Shauna and Serena / Calem , the opposite gender of the character the player chooses.
Aquacorde Town is where the hero/heroine meets all of their rivals and obtains their starter Pokémon as well as the Pokédex .
Santalune City is home to the Santalune City Gym and its Gym Leader, Viola , who specializes in Bug -type Pokémon.
Lumiose City is the main city of Kalos. [1] It is home to Alexa , a journalist and Gym Leader Viola 's elder sister. The gym is located exactly in the center of the city, inside the Prism Tower. It's also home to Trevor , another rival of the player, and it is also where Professor Sycamore 's Lab is located. The Gym Leader, Clemont , specializes in Electric types. It is also the setting of Pokémon Legends: Z-A .
A town with a barren castle that used to belong to a noble family. It is home to Cassius , the operator for the Kalos Pokémon Storage System.
A town home to the Ambrette Aquarium and the Fossil Lab.
Cyllage City is homage to the Rock -type Gym . The Gym Leader, Grant , specializes in Rock -type Pokémon. A Bicycle can also be obtained here.
A town that is home to mysterious ruins and is later revealed to be above the Ultimate Weapon that Team Flare utilizes.
Shalour City is hometown of Korrina and where the Tower of Mastery lies. This also marks the first battle with Calem/Serena. The Gym Leader , Korrina , specializes in Fighting -type Pokémon.
Coumarine City is divided into two parts. First there is the coastal part where there are a couple of stands and a hotel. However, connected via monorail, is the cliff side part of Coumarine City. This is where Ramos , the grass -type gym leader, awaits. This is also the place where you find Tierno when you complete the game. Here, you can buy incenses for 9,600 Poké money.
Laverre City is a small city located at the north of Kalos. It is a very rustic city and features quaint homes that are built around a forest. In the middle is an ancient tree that is said to be 1,500 years old. This is where Valerie , the fairy -type gym leader awaits.
A rural town with windmills and farms. It is home to the Move Deleter and Move Reminder.
Anistar City is a city located east of Kalos. The city is next to the sea and since it is close to Snowbelle City , it is a cold city. It is home to Olympia the Psychic -type gym leader. It also has an ancient sundial made out of crystal, a symbol of the city.
Snowbelle City is the last city where a Gym Leader resides. Wulfric , the Ice -type Gym Leader, awaits. Located in southeast Kalos, the city is more or less covered in snow.
According to the town map, its snowy condition originates from the local Gym where ventilators were installed pumping cold air to maintain a 'icy look' thus affecting the city. South of the city, the entrance to Route 20 is there.
Using the Kalos Map as evidence, certain areas can be identified, as they stand out.
The Pokémon League and Victory Road in the official artwork of Kalos.
This castle-like Pokémon League is situated east of Santalune City. Like always, eight badges are required to enter. Here, you face the Elite Four in addition to finally getting to the champion, Diantha .
Santalune Forest is located north of Aquacorde Town, after Route 2. Home to many Pokémon, respective of its type variations. Just upward north-east of the forest is the exit leading to its namesake city, Santalune City.
Tower of Mastery is a tower located on the north side of Shalour City . The origins of the Mega Evolution first began when a Trainer came to Kalos, accompanied by a Lucario, and found 2 strange stones.
Chamber of Emptiness is a small cave found on the south side of Route 22 . An eternal void, there is nothing in the cave other than two items.
A power plant located west of Kalos Route 13. There are five facilities, but only one can be accessed.
Kalos has 22 routes.
Kalos Route 1 (Vaniville Pathway) is the first route found in Kalos. It is a straight, basic path that connects Vaniville Town and Aquacorde Town . No Pokémon can be found in this route.
Kalos Route 2 (Avance Trail) is the second route found in Kalos. It is a straightforward route that connects Aquacorde Town and Santalune Forest .
Kalos Route 3 (Ouvert Way) is the third route found in Kalos. It is a straightforward route that connects Santalune Forest and Santalune City .
Kalos Route 4 (Parterre Way) connects Santalune City and Lumiose City . This route introduces the player to Pokémon hidden in flowers, such as Flabébé.
Kalos Route 5 (Versant Road) connects Lumiose City and Camphrier Town . There is a skate park with grind rails leading out either side to areas exited using a ledge.
Kalos Route 6 (Palais Lane) connects Route 7 to Parfum Palace . It is a straight path to the Parfum Palace, shaded by trees that line the path in two neat rows by accessed from Route 7, and unkept long grass by accessed from Parfum Palace.
Kalos Route 7 (Rivière Walk) connects Route 6 , Camphrier Town, and Connecting Cave . The Battle Chateau can be found near the center of the route.
Kalos Route 8 (Muraille Coast) connects Connecting Cave and Ambrette Town on the upper cliffside path, and connects Ambrette Town and Cyllage City on the lower seaside path.
Kalos Route 9 (Spikes Passage) connects Ambrette Town and Glittering Cave . This route was forged by retired Rhyhorn Racers , so most of the route is rough and rocky, and the player has to ride on a Rhyhorn on the route in order to traverse it.
Kalos Route 10 (Menhir Trail) connects Cyllage City and Geosenge Town . This route is lined with mysterious stone, which are the graves of the Pokémon that died 3,000 years ago for their life forces to energize the ultimate weapon.
Kalos Route 11 (Miroir Way) connects Geosenge Town and Reflection Cave . This route has many clear crystals sprout from the ground.
Kalos Route 12 (Fourrage Road) connects Shalour City , Azure Bay , and Coumarine City . This route is the location of Baa de Mer Ranch , where several Skiddo can be ridden on.
Kalos Route 13 (Lumiose Badlands) connects Coumarine City and Lumiose City. It is also the location of Kalos Power Plant .
Kalos Route 14 (Laverre Nature Trail) connects Lumiose City and Laverre City . It is home to the scary house, associated with a haunted tale.
Kalos Route 15 (Brun Way) is an autumn-like area. It connects Laverre City, Route 16 , and Dendemille Town . The north entrance of Lost Hotel can be found here.
Kalos Route 16 (Mélancolie Path) is an autumn-like area. It connects Lumiose City and Route 15 . The south entrance of Lost Hotel can be found here.
Kalos Route 17 (Mamoswine Road) is a winter-like area. It connects Dendemille Town and Anistar City . The constant snowstorms makes the most of the route inaccessible by foot, so the player must ride a Mamoswine to traverse it.
Kalos Route 18 (Vallée Étroite Way) connects Anistar City and Couriway Town . This route is a lush, green route with a river flowing through it. Terminus Cave can be found at the east section of this route.
Kalos Route 19 (Grande Vallée Way) connects Couriway Town to Snowbelle City . This route begins with a three-way intersection from Couriway Town gate.
Kalos Route 20 (Winding Woods) connects Snowbelle City to Pokémon Village . This route is located inside of a dense forest, twisting and turning to avoid trees.
Kalos Route 21 (Dernière Way) connects Snowbelle City and Victory Road . This is the final route to go through before Victory Road.
Kalos Route 22 (Détourner Way) connects Santalune City and Victory Road . Chamber of Emptiness can be found on the south side of this route.
The islands of Alola were given form when underground volcanoes erupted long, long ago. Pokémon came to live in Alola when they flew, swam or were carried on the wind to the isles.
Alola is the region where the series Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and the series Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon take place.
Among the starter Pokémon for beginners are Rowlet , the Grass- type Pokémon , Litten , the Fire-type Pokémon, and Popplio , a Water-type Pokémon. In the anime , it's the residence of Lana , Mallow , Sophocles , Kiawe , Professor Kukui , Professor Burnet , Lillie , Lusamine , Hala , Faba , and Guzma .
Similar to the Hoenn region, the Aloha region is made up islands and is completely unconnected to any mainland. The Aloha region consists of 4 main islands and one artificial island. The names of the islands are:
An artwork of some Pokémon found in Alola.
The First partner Pokémon for beginners are Grookey , Scorbunny , and Sobble .
A small town on a cape in the south of the Paldea region. It is the hometown of the player and their rival , Nemona .
A focal point of the region, the institute is said to have a history that exceeds other schools . The campus the player attends will depend on the version they play. They are run by the director Clavell .
A town that's famous for its flowers and art. It has a windmill, small houses, and fresh greenery everywhere. Appropriately enough, Brassius is the Gym Leader here. He specializes in Grass Pokémon and is known as the 'Verdant Virtuoso'.
Home of the Electric Gym Leader, Iono . A well-known streamer and influencer. Iono has a channel called the "Iono Zone".
The town that has the gym leader Ryme . Ryme is a rapper who specializes in Ghost .
Home of the Ice Gym Leader, Grusha . Once a professional snowboarder, but after his snowboarding accident, Grusha now runs his Gym full-time, always ready for challengers who desire to face him.
The Great Crater of Paldea, also known as Area Zero, is the center of the region. It is also home to many Paradox Pokémon , either from the past or the future.
Shades of Your Journey Await! マサラは まっしろ はじまりのいろ
Pallet Town is a location introduced in Generation I .
Pallet Town is a small town in the Kanto region. It is the first setting of various games in the Pokémon franchise as well as Pokémon the Series . In the anime, the hometown of the protagonist, Ash and his rival, Gary Oak , and also his mother, Delia Ketchum . Since it has a population of eight residents, Pallet Town is the smallest town in the entire Kanto region. Other characters originating from Pallet Town throughout Pokémon media include Leaf , Chase , Elaine , Trace , and Professor Oak .
The town has a local laboratory where Professor Oak studies Pokémon . Both the player and their rival each receive their first partner Pokémon here.
The other two locations are the player's house, where the player lives and begins their journey, and their rival's house, where their rival lives.
Pallet Town has two neighboring locations. To the south is Route 21 , a water route, which is inaccessible unless the player has a Pokémon who can use Surf outside of battle . To the north is the main route, Route 1 , which is the first area the player can visit outside of Pallet Town.
The main trading city is the nearby Viridian City , as there is no Poké Mart or Pokémon Center in the town. However, the player's mom can heal their Pokémon once the player has received their Pokédex from Professor Oak.
Pallet Town, as depicted in the anime
In the anime, Pallet Town is portrayed as a quiet, rural town near the mountains, with extensive crops and a few buildings. It is the hometown of Ash and Gary . Professor Oak 's Laboratory is now located on top of a hill and has a wind turbine behind it. Professor Oak's Laboratory is where Ash deposits all his previous Pokémon (up to the ones he caught at Kalos ). Pallet Town has a local airport, unlike the games, as well as a local radio station, as seen in " Journey to the Starting Line! ".
Pallet Town is introduced in the very first episode of the anime, " Pokémon - I Choose You! " It is shown to be a nearby area of various locations, such as the Xanadu Nursery , featured in " Make Room for Gloom ".
Whenever Ash concludes his journey in a region, he and Pikachu return to Pallet Town before starting another journey in a new region. This first occurs in " Gotta Catch Ya Later! " when Ash concludes his journey in Johto ; in " Home Is Where the Start Is! ", when Ash concludes his journey in Hoenn ; and " Memories Are Made of Bliss! ", when Ash concludes his journey in Sinnoh .
In Pokémon Journeys: The Series , Goh and Chloe went to Pallet Town at a younger age to participate in Professor Oak's Summer Camp.
In the film Pokémon the Movie: I Choose You! , Pallet Town is the starting location, much like in "TB001: Pokémon - I Choose You!".
In Pokémon Origins , Pallet Town first appears in " File 1: Red ". Since the anime is based on the games, Pallet Town is where both Red and Blue originate from and where they choose their first partner Pokémon from Professor Oak at his laboratory before starting their journey.
In " File 4: Charizard ", Red returns to Pallet Town, having completed the Pokédex , and informs Professor Oak that he has done so. Red then learns that Blue has been injured by an unknown Pokémon in Cerulean Cave , later revealed to be Mewtwo . In the ending, Red returns to Pallet Town again a second time, this time with Blue, and Oak congratulates both of them for completing the Pokédex.
Pallet Town is the hometown of Red and Blue , as well as where Professor Oak's Laboratory is located.
Pallet Town first appears in " A Glimpse of the Glow ", where Red catches a Nidorino , demonstrating his profession as a Pokémon Trainer to the children to show them how to capture a wild Pokémon . There is a nearby forest, unlike the games, where Team Rocket Grunts try to capture Mew as well as where Red and Blue battle it.
In " Kalling Kadabra ", Red returns to Pallet Town, only to discover that the inhabitants have all been kidnapped by Team Rocket over to Silph Co. in Saffron City .
In " Just a Spearow Carrier ", it is revealed that Green is also from Pallet Town, or rather where she was born before being kidnapped by Ho-Oh as a toddler.
In " FRLG002: Return to Pallet Town ," Red and Blue are invited back to Pallet Town by Professor Oak. Both of them are attacked by an invisible Deoxys outside of his laboratory, but it disappears. Both characters each obtain a Tri-Pass and Fame Checker from the laboratory and continue their journey with them.
In " Going Green ", it is revealed that Oak was not at the laboratory during the second chapter because he had been kidnapped by Orm .
In Pokémon Pocket Monsters , Pallet Town is first seen in " PPM001: Introducing the Pokémon Clefairy!! ." When Red and Blue are called over by Professor Oak to go to his laboratory and choose their first partner Pokémon. Blue chooses Charmander , but Red decides to partner with the Clefairy he encountered in a meadow nearby.
In Pocket Monsters Zensho , a faithful adaptation of the games Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Red and Blue start their journey in Pallet Town.
"Press START to open the MENU." FR LG
In the Generation II games and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver the city is known as "the gateway to Indigo Plateau" as it is connected to the route.
The city's gym is also the main base of the Team Rocket leader, Giovanni. It has floor tiles that move you and many Trainers. Giovanni specializes in Ground Pokémon and when you defeat him you are free to leave and to go to the Elite Four . Blue takes over as Gym Leader in Generation II with no particular main type of Pokémon, while Giovanni disappears. The players who defeat this Gym's leader receive the Earth Badge .
The Gym appears in the anime episode The Battle of the Badge , where both Ash and Gary hope to claim the Earth Badge.
The Pokémon Academy is a building (located in the center of the city in Generation III only) that is dedicated to teaching the basics of Pokémon to inexperienced Trainers. Many Trainers that pass through Viridian fall under this category, making the city an ideal location. In Generation II, this school was rebuilt and tuned into the Trainer House. Another Pokémon Academy is located at Rustboro City .
A unique attraction in Generation II-era Viridian is the Trainer House, a location where Trainers from far and wide can battle a Trainer once per day. Trainers will face the last Trainer they used Mystery Gift with, along with that Trainer's party. If they have yet to unlock or use Mystery Gift, the opposing Trainer will be a trainer named Cal who has a trio of Level 50 Pokémon, namely Meganium, Typhlosion, and Feraligatr. In HG/SS, the player needs to connect with another player's Pokéwalker, not through Mystery Gift, to unlock them in the Trainer House.
On the edge of town, toward the Viridian Forest, the player meets an old coffee addict. On his/her first visit, he/she is unable to leave the village along this route until he/she has delivered a package to Professor Oak. Also, in his/her second visit, the old man will show the player how to capture a Pokémon, although the player may already have caught one.
The Pokémon Center in Viridian City is the first Pokémon Center you can access in any of the Kanto Games: Pokémon Red , Pokémon Blue , Pokémon Green , Pokémon Yellow and Pokémon Fire Red and Pokémon Leaf Green.
In the anime, the Viridian City Pokémon Center is where Ash brings his Pikachu for treatment after their encounter with the swarm of Spearow and Fearow and also meets Nurse Joy and her Chansey for the first time. They use a group of Pikachu as a backup electricity generator.
The Pewter Museum is located in the far north of Pewter City. It will cost you 50 Pokémon Dollars to get into the guest part of the museum. On the other side (which is known as the " employees only " side), you can receive an Old Amber fossil from the scientist, but the only way to get to that side is use Cut on a small tree.
In Generation II , the museum is closed for renovations.
In Generation IV , the museum was open, but only reduced to minor exhibits and one room. Fossils could also be revived here.
The Pewter City Gym is located on the west side of the city. The Gym leader is Brock and he uses Rock Pokémon ; after being defeated, he will give the player character the Badge and the player character will be free to leave the city.
Cerulean City is located in the Kanto region that has a few notable locations such as the Bike Shop, the Cerulean Gym , and the Cerulean Cave. It is also the location of the second gym battle. Its Gym Leader is Misty . Cerulean City is located between four routes: Route 24 , Route 5 , Route 4 , and Route 9 .
The motto of Cerulean City is: Cerulean City: A mysterious, blue aura surrounds it . In Japanese, its motto is Hanada is the color of Aqua mysteries . The location has a population of 27.
The Cerulean City Gym is located near the center of the city. Its Gym Leader is Misty, who specializes in Water -type Pokémon .
There is also the Bike Shop , where there is a Bicycle for sale for 1,000,000 in the Generation I games and Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version . It is not possible to purchase it, though the player can obtain it for free if they have received the Bike Voucher from the Pokémon Fan Club chairman .
On the northwestern point of Cerulean City, there's a cave blocked by someone. Beat the Pokémon league (and in the remake beat the Pokémon League and get the National Pokédex and also deliver the ruby and sapphire gemstones to Celio at one island) and you can enter this dark dungeon filled with strong Pokémon. On the bottom floor floats a level 70 Mewtwo .
Note: The rival has only either Bulbasaur , Charmander , or Squirtle as his fourth Pokémon for if the player has a Charmander, a Squirtle, or a Bulbasaur, repsectively.
A Team Rocket Grunt is fought with the the same party in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version and Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition .
The rival is fought the same as in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , with the only difference being that his Abra is level 16 and his Pidgeotto is level 17. All four of the rival's Pokémon are male. The Team Rocket Grunt returns, also being fought the same way as before.
Cerulean City first appears in " TB007: The Water Flowers of Cerulean City ", where Misty is dead set against going to Cerulean afraid that if Ash , Pikachu and Brock found out about her order sisters , they would laugh at her. When Ash found out that Misty is one of the gym leaders they had a battle but it was interrupted by Team Rocket. After the chaos was dealt with and Ash got the badge as a way of thanking him for defending their gym they head back on the road.
In " TB061: The Misty Mermaid ", Ash, Misty and Brock made a detour to Cerulean City there so Misty's Horsea can swim at. However once they get there Misty sisters decided to put on a water ballet where Misty is the star. After the show was over they head back on the road which Misty decided to leave her Horsea and Starmie at the gym so her sisters can have more Pokémon for there shows. The city made a lot of appearances in the Chronicle series, and it has been mentioned in the Advanced Generation series.
Cerulean City appears during a flashback in " RS092: Judgment Day! ", when Jimmy mention coming by it while helping clean the pool for Daisy. It's been mention once in the Diamond and Pearl series when Ash and Brock told Dawn about Misty. The city was mention once more by Professor Oak when Ash ask where Tracey was.
The player character can board the S.S. Anne and S.S. Aqua via the harbor and later on in Pokémon FireRed and LeafGreen , the Sevii Islands can also be accessed.
The Vermilion Gym is located in the south west of the city. The leader is Lt. Surge and he uses Electric -type Pokémon . A tree blocks the entrance to the Gym, but it can be removed using HM01 ( Cut ).
In Pokémon LeafGreen and FireRed , it appears as a small port town. The entrance to the gym is blocked off with a cut table tree, that can be cut down after obtaining Cut from the S.S. Anne captain. Near the north path, there is a man with a Machop . If you speak to the man, he will say he is getting the Machop to flatten the ground so that he can build a building on the foundation. In the events of Gold and Silver (including the Gen. IV remakes), it is revealed that the foundation is firm but the old man does not have any money to start the project. In HeartGold and SoulSilver , the area is surrounded with a fence, but still has an opening.
Ash battled Lt. Surge and earned his first well-earned badge in " Electric Shock Showdown ". After that, Team Rocket tricked him, Misty and Brock into boarding the St. Anne as part of a Pokémon heisting plan by Giovanni himself. Ash later returned to Vermilion City because he was invited by Professor Oak to Professor Cerise 's Cerise Laboratory opening ceremony. Along the way, he met Goh , and they became research fellows of Cerise Laboratory.
Going from the Eastern entrance, the city has its first building, the Pokémon Center . Next come some houses and nearby them is an alley which leads to the Southern part of the city. This alleyway is just aside the Rocket Game Corner that has a secret Team Rocket Hideout in Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version , Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition and Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version . Leaving the alley and going forward to west, a large building stands where players can get an Eevee . Right next to it is another alley which leads to a secret path; however, it is blocked by a sign board. This alley could be accessed by going through the backdoor of the building that gives Eevee . Moving ahead, there comes a Large Building which is the Celadon Department Store . Celadon City has no Poke Mart ; instead, it has the Department Store. Ahead are some houses. South to those is a small founatain. West to the fountain is the western entry of the Town. East to the fountain is a bridge. The bridge is placed on river which gives access to a house if the player has the HM move Surf . Outside the house is a Move Tutor in Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version who teaches Softboiled to your Pokémon (if possible). Then comes the Rocket Game Corner again. South to the Rocket Game Corner is a Hotel and a Restaurant. In the Restaurant, the player can get a Coin Case . South to it is a tree that can be cut down with the move ' Cut '. It leads to the Pokémon Gym owned by Leader Erika .
Next to the city's Pokémon Center is the Celadon Condominiums , where the game developers appear.
The Celadon Department Store is the largest building in the city, as well as the biggest shop. Its located in the north west corner of the city.
Southern part of the city caters to travelers and tourists. in addition to a hotel and a restaurant, the Game Corner is a popular spot.
The Celadon Hotel is famous for containing one of the most well-known Pokémon Red and Blue bugs: the invisible PC . The mysterious computer is located a space below the rightmost part of the hotel desk. If the player was to take one step above the plants and press A, the PC would be activated. The PC can be used and usual transactions can be made. The reason for this glitch is because the hotel's layout is similar to one of a Pokémon Center, and the cause of the invisibility of the PC is probably a bug.
A Team Rocket Grunt guarding a poster in FireRed and LeafGreen to try and cover up the location of Team Rocket's hideout
It is a secret base built of Team Rocket in the Rocket game corner . It is in four floor depth beneath in Rocket game corner. A Team Rocket Grunt is guarding the poster and mistakenly says to the player that "I'm guarding this poster! Go away or else!"
Then, a battle occurs with the grunt after, defeating him he say "Team Rocket hideout might be discovered! I better tell Boss!" a switch behind Rocket Hideout can accessed by pressing the switch behind a poster in the Game Corner in Celadon City. Once the player press switch, the stairs to the hideout will appear. In the Generation III games, It is necessary to go into the underground of the Game Corner and defeat Team Rocket. The player must have to search for and obtain the Lift Key to activate the lift through Giovanni . Once battled, Giovanni will flee, leaving the Silph Scope behind.
A Move Deleter is present in a house of Fuchsia City. The Move Deleter can make any move forget of any Pokémon with no cost; he can also help the Pokémon forget the HM moves too. In Generation I , II and IV , the Move Deleter isn't present.
The Fuchsia Gym is a Poison-type Pokémon gym. Koga is the gym leader in Generation I and III. Whereas, the Gym leader in Generation II and IV is Koga's daughter Janine. Trainers who are victorious at this gym receive Soul Badge .
This city appears in The Ninja Poké-Showdown when Ash faces Koga for his Soul Badge.
Saffron City is a sprawling metropolis in the Kanto region. It lies between Celadon City , Vermilion City , Lavender Town , and Cerulean City .
Saffron City is also home to the Magnet Train Station, where the Magnet Train runs between Saffron City and Goldenrod City .
Not only is Saffron City one of the biggest and busiest cities in Kanto, it is even famous outside Kanto. The large Silph Co. HQ stands form as the cities center piece, while two Gyms dominate the cities north-eastern corner district. Not only it is the business center of Kanto, it also holds the region's largest infrastructure (including the Magnet Train ).
Saffron City is present in the Pokémon games; Red/Blue / Yellow , Gold/Silver , FireRed/LeafGreen and HeartGold/SoulSilver .
Ash goes to Saffron City in the anime in order to get the Marsh Badge to enter the Pokémon League, but was unable to beat Sabrina's Kadabra with Pikachu. This loss almost cost him and his friends their lives, due to Sabrina having a dark personality, but Sabrina's father saved them at the last second. Ash traveled to Lavender Town to get a Ghost Pokémon, which can beat Sabrina's psychic Pokémon, and later returned with a Haunter . Twice during their confrontation with Sabrina, the Haunter left because it didn't want to battle, but returned shortly after its second departure. However, instead of battling Sabrina's Pokémon, it chose to play around (as it had a plan to defeat her without fighting), causing the emotionless Psychic Gym Leader to burst into laughter, which also resulted in her befriending the Haunter and becoming a good-natured person. As a reward, Ash was presented with the Marsh Badge.
Ash and Brock later returned along with May and Max during the Advanced Generation series so May could compete in her first Kanto Pokémon Contest . Things started off rough as Harley tricked her again by lying about the deadline to register and using her Hoenn Contest pass to sign up: however, Lilian Meridian was able to let her compete after she saved the other coordinator's Pokémon from Team Rocket.
The contest soon took place with May, Harley and Jessie in disguise all advancing to the Battle Stage. Harley defeated "Jessabella" and in turn, he was defeated by May, winning her the Saffron City Contest and her first Kanto Ribbon.
Saffron City is also mentioned in Black and White as Iris takes the Magnet Train there to get to Johto after she and Cilan leave Ash.
Ash and Goh visited the Fighting Dojo in Saffron City with the goal of fighting the Dojo Master. Before Ash could challenge him, however, he was beaten by a Trainer named Bea . Ash and Bea then found out they were both participating in the World Coronation Series , so they decide to have a battle. Ash then found out that Bea was the Fighting -type Gym Leader of the Galar region. Ash eventually lost the battle, causing his overall ranking in the World Coronation Series to drop.
Saffron City in Super Smash Bros.
In Super Smash Bros. , Saffron City appears as a stage. The layout features the rooftops of various buildings. The left portion of the stage has two platforms that move up and down.
When the battle begins, the door of the Silph Co. rooftop will open. The opened door will spawn a random Pokémon that can attack fighters, causing a set amount of damage. Charmander releases flames that damages fighters and will damage those who make contact with it. Porygon will damage those who make contact with it. Venusaur releases a barrage of leaves, damaging anyone who get caught by them plus contact with Venusaur also deals damage to fighters. Electrode will deal up to 30% damage after exploding. Chansey will throw an Egg onto the turf and is the only Pokémon that does not attack fighters, instead reducing their damage meter by 5% when they make contact with it. After a Pokémon appears from the opened door, the door will close, but will open again as time passes.
Some Pokémon, especially Butterfree , Pidgey , and Fearow can be seen flying in the background; on rare occasions, Moltres also flies in the background.
Saffron City would later appear in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , where players have the option to turn the stage hazards off. With the hazards off, no Pokémon will appear from the rooftop door, and the platforms that normally move up and down will not move.
The Fiery Town of Burning Desire グレンの あかは じょうねつの いろ
Cinnabar Island is a location introduced in Generation I .
Cinnabar Island is an island in the Kanto region featuring a large volcano. In the Generation I and Generation III core series titles , it is where the player can face off against the seventh Gym Leader , Blaine , in the Cinnabar Island Gym . Both the Cinnabar Lab and the Pokémon Mansion are also located here. Various journals found in the Pokémon Mansion reveal that Cinnabar Island is where Mew was cloned to create Mewtwo . Before the player can access Cinnabar Island Gym, they have to obtain the Secret Key in the Pokémon Mansion.
In the Generation I games, the coast on the East side of Cinnabar Island is well known for the MissingNo. glitch, as well as other similarly exploitable glitches like 'M . There are two ways to go to Cinnabar Island; the main method is to through the Seafoam Islands , but it is also possible to go to Cinnabar Island by going to Pallet Town and surfing south from there.
In Generation II and the Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version remakes, Cinnabar Island has been destroyed in a volcanic eruption, having destroyed every building on the island except the Pokémon Center . Because of this, Blaine was forced to relocate his gym to the Seafoam Islands .
Cinnabar Island has a population of 33 people.
The island population is 9 people, all only present in the Pokémon Center, due to the eruption that had happened a year before the events of Pokémon Gold and Silver.
FireRed and LeafGreen adds three more people to the island, making the population 36.
In HeartGold & SoulSilver , the island's population is 9. The only building on the island is a Pokémon Center since the island has been overwhelmed by an eruption a year prior to the game's events. In addition, rocky walls can be found on the island that can be scaled by using Rock Climb.
Mt. Moon ( オツキミやま , Otsukimi-yama ? ) is a mountain that is located in the northern Kanto region, east of Pewter City and west of Cerulean City .
In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon , the Indigo Plateau is one possible background in Pokémon Photo Club from transferred from Pokémon Gen I games or Fire Red and Leaf Green.
In the anime, it is the site of the regional Conference of the Pokémon League, as well as the Kanto region's Grand Festival where May competes.
Mt. Silver is the base of a large mountain in the northeast region of Johto . It is located west of Victory Road and the Indigo Plateau . It can be accessed via Route 28 . The large cave within the mountain and summit of the mountain is referred to as Mt. Silver Cave , a distinction made in Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , whilst the anime and manga refer to Mt. Silver as being the entirety of the mountain itself. Mt. Silver and its cave becomes accessible only once the player has received all sixteen Gym Badges , after which Professor Oak allows them to go to Mt. Silver and enter it.
In the anime, Ash , Misty , and Brock travelled to Mt. Silver to drop off Larvitar and enter the Johto League Silver Conference , which was at the foot of the mountain. At the mountain, a mother Tyranitar was once attacked by the Pokémon Poacher Brothers , who stole her egg, but Tyranitar was eventually reunited with her child.
There are three entrances to Slateport City, the northern entrance being Route 110 . The southern entrance being Route 109 , and to the east is Route 134 .
The Slateport market is a unique place by itself.
Players can get items here which cannot be found easily.
There is a shop to buy Secret Base decorations, vitamins and fresh seaweed there.
The Oceanic Museum is a large two-floored museum located on the eastern side of Slateport. The museum was built by Captain Stern to teach others of the ocean and its Pokémon.
Slateport City has a Pokémon Fan Club. The Fan Club is basically a place for people to meet and chat about their favourite Pokémon and to show off their collections to each other.
Stern's Shipyard is a building owned by Captain Stern. Stern's Shipyard is a large brown building located next to the ocean. The S.S. Tidal is being constructed here. After the completion of the main game, it will be completed.
There is a Name Rater that allows the player to change the name of their Pokémon.
In Ruby and Sapphire , it hosts the Hyper Rank Pokémon Contest. Only those who have beaten the Super Rank Pokémon Contest can perform here.
In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire , Lisia is first met outside the Contest Hall scouting and ended up finding the player. There are no restrictions on the contest rank.
The Battle Tent can only be found in Pokémon Emerald , replacing the Contest Hall. It is one of the three Battle Tents found in Emerald.
Slateport City is the site of the Hoenn region's Grand Festival in the anime. May 's rival Harley is from Slateport, but he fails to go farther than May.
Slateport also hosts the Water-type Pokémon Friendship Contest , where young kids and their water-type Pokémon can perform to win a trophy. Jinny enters with her Feebas to prove to her friends that Feebas is cute. When Team Rocket trio attacks the contest in an attempt to steal all of the Pokémon, her Feebas evolves into Milotic and defeats them.
Where the land ends and the sea begins. りくちの さいはて うみの はじまり
Lilycove City is a location introduced in Generation III .
Lilycove City is a city located in the northeastern part of the Hoenn region, connected by Route 124 in the east and Route 121 in the west. However, the path to Route 124 is blocked by several Wailmers until the player character completes the Team Magma Hideout R OR or Team Aqua Hideout S AS at the northeast of Lilycove City.
Besides the villain hideout, Lilycove City has a variety of visitable areas. There is a Contest Hall , which hosts Master Rank Pokémon Contests in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version and all Contests in Pokémon Emerald Version . To the east of the Contest Hall is Cove Lily Motel , which is empty until after Team Magma and Team Aqua flees Lilycove City, with staff members of Game Freak moving in by the time the player becomes the Pokémon Champion . To the north is the Lilycove Museum , which has art presented on display. To the east of the Lilycove Museum is the Lilycove Department Store , the largest store of the Hoenn region. To the east of the Lilycove Department Store is the home of the only Move Deleter in the Hoenn region, and to the south is the usual Pokémon Center , which is otherwise normal but has the Pokémon Center Ladies trio in Pokémon Emerald Version that give rewards by record mixing with other players. To the southeast of the Move Deleter's House is the Pokémon Trainer Fan Club , where fans discuss popular Pokémon Trainers , including the player once they enter the Hall of Fame . At the southwest of Lilycove City is the Lilycove City Harbor , where the player can embark on the S.S. Tidal to travel to Slateport City , as well as the Battle Frontier in Pokémon Emerald Version .
After the events at Seafloor Cavern , Lilycove City is affected by extremely harsh sunlight (in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Omega Ruby ) or heavy rain (in Pokémon Silver Version and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire ) until the player battles Kyogre or Groudon at the Cave of Origin in Sootopolis City . The music is also replaced with the flood theme or the drought theme while the respective weather is in effect, like with Mossdeep City , Sootopolis City , and Routes 124 through 131 .
In the northwest of Lilycove City is a Gentleman who gives the player one of ten random Berries daily: Cheri Berry , Chesto Berry , Pecha Berry , Rawst Berry , Aspear Berry , Leppa Berry , Oran Berry , Persim Berry , Lum Berry , or Sitrus Berry . He does not appear during harsh weather conditions.
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire only, the Memory Girl is located next to the Pokémon Center, and she has the ability to read a Pokémon 's memories with its Original Trainer . Another fan club was added, the Contest Spectacular Trainer Fan Club, which consists of fans of Lisia . Additionally, a vending machine was added behind the Lilycove City Harbor that sells only Soda Pop at 300 each.
Lilycove City has a total population of 123 in Pokémon Ruby Version and Pokémon Sapphire Version , 138 in Pokémon Emerald Version , and 106 in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire . In all three Generation III games, Lilycove City is the most populated city of the Hoenn region, but in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , this title was given to Mauville City .
This list does not include the Berries randomly given out.
Ash and his friends arrived in Lilycove City in " Pokéblock, Stock, and Berry ". Originally, they were just passing through the city because it was en route to Mossdeep City , the location of Ash's next Gym battle. However, after May saw a poster advertising an upcoming Pokémon Contest, scheduled to be held in the city the next day, they decided to stay in Lilycove so May could compete for her third Ribbon.
Later, during the Ever Grande Conference , Ash battles Lilycove native Katie in the first round of the full battle stage. Despite Katie 's main strategy putting Ash in an early hole, Ash manages to emerge victorious in the end.
Sailor in Lilycove City reacting to flood after Kyogre's awakening in Alpha Sapphire.
Spear Pillar is a mostly destroyed temple at the top of Mt. Coronet in the Sinnoh region in Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version , Pokémon Platinum Version , and the remakes Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Pokémon Shining Pearl . With the release of Pokémon Legends: Arceus , it is revealed that Spear Pillar was originally the Temple of Sinnoh , built in honor of Arceus . The Hall of Origin is located high above the Spear Pillar, and it is where Arceus resides.
Commander Mars and Commander Jupiter :
Reward: 7280
Galactic Boss Cyrus :
Reward: 8640
Reward: 7360
In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version , the player must travel here where they must defeat Team Galactic 's plan to control the legendary Pokémon. Upon their defeat, Team Galactic retreats and the player has the opportunity to catch Dialga or Palkia depending on the version. Barry can also heal the player's team here. Depending on the game version, an Adamant Orb (if Diamond) or Lustrous Orb (if Pearl) can be found at the back of the Spear Pillar after defeating/catching Dialga (if Diamond) or Palkia (if Pearl). If Dialga or Palkia is defeated, it respawns when the player enters the Hall of Fame.
In Pokémon Platinum Version , the player travels here to stop Team Galactic's plan to control both Dialga and Palkia. Barry can heal the player's team here, like in the previous games. After successfully calling both to the pillar a shadowy figure appears through a portal and drags Cyrus to another world . After defeating the Elite Four , the player can catch Dialga and Palkia by interacting with their portals after finding the Adamant and Lustrous Orbs .
Spear Pillar in the anime.
Cyrus summoning Dialga and Palkia.
The Spear Pillar first appeared in DP152: The Battle Finale of Legend! but Team Galactic searched for the entrance to the Spear Pillar in several episodes before its premiere. Like in the games, Team Galactic go here to summon Dialga and Palkia and successfully open a portal to a new world. With the help from Cynthia and the Lake Guardians , Ash and his friends broke Team Galactic's control over the Legendary Pokémon but Cyrus jumps in before the portal closes. Shortly after, Saturn , Mars and Jupiter are arrested, thereby disbanding Team Galactic.
Spear Pillar as it appears in Super Smash Bros. Brawl.
Spear Pillar is a playable stage in Super Smash Bros. Brawl , and Dialga , Palkia , and Cresselia make cameo appearances in the background to devastate the players. It is a destructible stage, which also features a cave underneath the surface which players can brawl in. Spear Pillar can be unlocked by completing Event 25.
The Spear Pillar stage returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as one of the seven returning Pokémon Stages in the base game.
This city is home to a Gym , the Battle Company, and the Game Freak tower.
When traveling through Castelia City, the camera will zoom in and out, and when leaving, the camera will show Castelia City from a distance.
The boats docked here can take to areas otherwise inaccessible.
Map of Castelia City.
Castelia City in the anime.
Castelia City has a population of 127 which makes it the fourth most populous city in the Pokémon world, after Nimbasa City , Galar 's Wyndon and Kalos ' Lumiose City .
Herdier Level 18
Munna Level 18
Dewott Level 20
Servine Level 20
Pignite Level 20
Pansear Level 18
Panpour Level 18
Pansage Level 18
Ash, Iris, and Cilan arrive at Castelia City for Ash's third Unova Gym badge when they soon come across a swarm of Venipede who were startled by activity in the Desert Resort .
Ash and Goh arrive there in " A Close Call... Practically! " through Goh's prize from the eating contest in the previous episode . Lucario and Cinderace chased after Team Rocket who had taken "Pikachu" throughout the city.
The City of Light. 光 の 都
Lumiose City is a location introduced in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y .
Lumiose City in Pokémon Legends: Z-A .
Lumiose City is the capital and largest city of the Kalos region . It is a big, circular city divided into two halves: the North Boulevard and South Boulevard , each having two avenues. Plazas are located in the innermost part of Lumiose City. There are alleyways that branch from the boulevards and always lead to a dead end, while those across the avenues are long. In the North Boulevard, some of the alleys feature Pokémon Trainers . Lumiose City has several cafés, most of which are optional to visit.
Being a large city, players can easily get around on Roller Skates , a bicycle , or even by doing a Poké Ride on a Gogoat . Using a Bicycle does not change the background music. Lumiose City also has its own taxi service and a train station. The vast size of Lumiose City makes it easy for one to become lost, and the transportation options allow one to reach the desired destination directly.
Lumiose City also has its own Style system in which the player can do various tasks for increased Style and receive benefits depending on how much Style they have, especially discounts.
In the very center of Lumiose City is its main landmark, the Prism Tower , which hosts the fifth Gym , Lumiose City Gym . The Gym Leader is Clemont , a specialist in Electric - type Pokémon .
At a population of 416, Lumiose City is the largest and most populated city in the Pokémon World .
Map of Lumiose City.
Lumiose City consists of five avenues as well as six plazas deeper within the city. The Vernal Avenue and Estival Avenue are in the South Boulevard, while the Autumnal Avenue and Hibernal Avenue are in the north. A canal crosses Lumiose City from east to west and is the dividing point between the North and South Boulevard. Every street and five plazas all meet at the very center, where the Centrico Plaza is, as well as Prism Tower.
The plazas are located to the opposite of the main avenues. If one were to start from the Rouge Plaza, which is opposite of Vernal Avenue, and go clockwise, they pass Hibernal Avenue, Jaune Square, the canal, Vert Plaza, Vernal Avenue, Bleu Plaza, Estival Avenue, the Magenta Plaza crossed by the canal, and lastly the Autumnal Avenue before returning to Rouge Plaza. By traveling up any plaza except Centrico Plaza away from the Prism Tower, one can continue past a city gate and access a route : Rouge Plaza to Route 14 ; Jaune Plaza to Route 16 ; Vert Plaza to Route 4 ; Bleu Plaza to Route 5 ; and Magenta Plaza to Route 13 .
Lumiose City has three Pokémon Centers . The one on South Boulevard is just next to the entrance to Vernal Avenue . The one on North Boulevard is across from Lumiose Museum . The third Pokémon Center is at Magenta Plaza, southeast of the main area.
This avenue connects the northwest of Lumiose City to the center. It has four accessible buildings:
This avenue connects the west of Lumiose City to the center. It also has four accessible buildings:
This avenue connects the south of Lumiose City to the center. It has six accessible buildings:
This avenue connects the northeast of Lumiose City to the center. It has two accessible buildings:
Just as Kalos is based on France, Lumiose City is based on France's capital city, Paris . The Prism Tower is based on the Eiffel Tower , and each plaza has a French word of a color.
Lumiose City's name could be derived from Paris's nickname, "La Ville-Lumière" , meaning "The City of Light". Lumiose City also has a very similar layout to the area of Paris surrounding the Arc de Triomphe.
These are the items found in Lumiose City, excluding Sycamore Pokémon Lab, Shutterbug Café, restaurants, and purchasable items.
These are sold at the right counter in the Poké Mart within the Pokémon Center :
The following are trainers fought in the backalleys of Lumiose City, and each of them battle with only one Pokémon.
Garçon Jacopo is located in the backalley beside the Loto-ID Center , along Estival Avenue .
Punk Guy Faust is located in the backalley between Autumnal Avenue and Rouge Plaza .
Black Belt Killian is located in the backalley behind the Sushi High Roller .
Beauty Anais is located in the backalley between Jaune Plaza and Hibernal Avenue .
Owner Toro is located in the alley from Bleu Plaza to the Prism Tower .
Waitress Paget is located in the alley between Bleu Plaza and the gate to Route 5 .
Beauty Cassandra is located in the alley between Bleu Plaza and the gate to Route 5.
Chef Kamaboko is located in the alley between Bleu Plaza and the gate to Route 5.
Punk Girl Lilian is located in the alley between Vert Plaza and the gate to Route 4 .
Beauty Aimee is located in the alley between Vert Plaza and the gate to Route 4.
Essentia can be fought in Lumiose City on either a Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday after completing every Looker Bureau mission.
AZ is fought during the end parade.
The player rollerskating in Lumiose City.
In Pokémon X and Pokémon Y , when the player first enters Lumiose City, they are greeted by Professor Sycamore at the Sycamore Pokémon Lab , along with their friends Serena / Calem , Trevor , Shauna , and Tierno . Sycamore allows the player to choose from one of the Kanto first partner Pokémon — Bulbasaur , Charmander , or Squirtle —each coming with their own corresponding Mega Stone , as Professor Sycamore wants the player to assist his research on Mega Evolution , advising him to start in Camphrier Town . As for the other protagonists, Shauna and Tierno decide to enjoy their journey to the fullest and to get to know their Pokémon extensively, Trevor sets himself the goal of completing the Pokédex , and Serena hopes to become a stronger Pokémon Trainer . After the conversation, the five protagonists go to the reception hall, where they meet Lysandre, who sees potential in them.
Serena/Calem later takes the player to Café Soleil , where they meet Lysandre as well as the famous actress Diantha . Since an outage had occurred at the Kalos Power Plant , only the South Boulevard and Vernal Avenue are accessible at first, while other areas of Lumiose City are undergoing maintenance.
Later, after the player defeats Team Flare at the Power Plant, the power at Lumiose City is fully restored, opening previously inaccessible areas of Lumiose City. To progress in their journey , the player has to go the Prism Tower , where the Lumiose City Gym is hosted, and win a battle against Gym Leader Clemont for the Voltage Badge . Before continuing to Laverre City , the player has to then go to Lysandre Labs , where they receive a King's Rock from Lysandre as they learn of his royal lineage.
The player must visit Lumiose City a third time after Lysandre reveals himself as the leader of Team Flare. They can discover a secret entrance to the research area of Lysandre Labs. They find AZ , who plays a role in developing the ultimate weapon , held captive in the basement. The protagonist is unable to rescue AZ, but they can defeat his elite researchers and go after Lysandre. The ultimate weapon is revealed to have been hidden under Geosenge Town , the player immediately rushes there to stop it from destroying all life.
After the player enters the Hall of Fame , a parade organized by Professor Sycamore occurs in Lumiose City in honor of the player and their companions. Toward the end of the parade, AZ appears unexpectly and challenges the player to battle, but after losing, AZ finds closure when he is finally reunited with this Floette (in Eternal Flower form) for the first time in 3,000 years.
In the post-game, Looker calls the player on their Holo Caster and assigns them as his assistant to uncover a crime at the Lumiose Museum .
An official image from Nintendo, showing the affected areas when saving (highlighted in light-blue).
In version 1.0 of Pokémon X and Pokémon Y , there is an infamous glitch where saving the game at either the South or the North Boulevard and then reloading it corrupts the game's save file; this does not occur in buildings, such as a Pokémon Center . The city's background music may play, although the player cannot move and the game eventually freezes, rendering even the Home menu unusable unless the player hard-resets the system by holding the Power button for several seconds.
The glitch was fixed in version 1.1, a free updare released for the Nintendo eShop on October 25, 2013, and it allowed even affected players to resume gameplay as normal. Before the update, the issue could only be truly resolved by formatting one's save data.
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , a model of Lumiose City is one of the decorations for the Super Secret Base .
Lumiose City is also referenced vaguely in Mt. Pyre 1F, where a Hex Maniac says "No, you are not the one." when talked to, much like the Hex Maniac ghost in the Strange Building of Lumiose City in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y .
Pokémon Legends: Z-A takes place entirely within Lumiose City.
Lumiose City is the hometown of Clemont and Bonnie , along with their father, Meyer , and Clemont's Clembot . It is one of the most major locations in Pokémon the Series: XY and Pokémon the Series: XYZ .
Lumiose City also offers an international airport that has flights serving Kanto , Hoenn , and other regions within the Pokémon World , unlike the core series. A battlefield is available on the airport's observation deck for Trainers wishing to battle while waiting for their flight.
Lumiose City is the first city that Ash visits in Kalos. He and Alexa arrive at the airport at Lumiose City in " Kalos, Where Dreams and Adventures Begin! ". He goes to the Prism Tower , wanting to take the Gym challenge, but Clembot does not allow Ash because he lacks the necessary number of Gym Badges . Ash later meets Clemont and his sister Bonnie . Lumiose City is where Ash's first Pokémon battle takes place, when he battles Clemont, though it is interrupted when a wild Froakie thwarts the Team Rocket trio 's attempt to kidnap Ash's Pikachu . Ash and Clemont rush over to Sycamore Pokémon Lab to heal Froakie.
In the following episode, " Lumiose City Pursuit! ", Professor Sycamore's Garchomp goes out of control and terrorizes Lumiose City. The Garchomp uses Hyper Beams within the city, causing the characters within the city to panic. The events at Lumiose City are broadcast on TV and watched by Grace and Serena at Vaniville Town . Ash manages to calm Sycamore's Garchomp by destroying the collar that the Team Rocket trio put on Garchomp's neck. At one point, Ash falls from the Prism Tower, but he is rescued by a Mega Blaziken . At the end, the same Froakie from the previous episode becomes part of Ash's party , before he sets off to Santalune City .
Aerial shot of Lumiose City in " A Battle of Aerial Mobility! "
In " A Battle of Aerial Mobility! ", Serena begins traveling to Lumiose City, wanting to meet Ash and receive her first partner Pokémon at Sycamore Pokémon Lab. Lumiose City is also where the Team Rocket trio have lunch as they call Giovanni to inform him about their plan to steal valuable Pokémon . Serena only makes it to Lumiose City by the end of the episode, where she meets Professor Sycamore at Sycamore Pokémon Lab, learning that Ash is headed to the Santalune City Gym . One of Sycamore's assistants, Sophie , presents Serena with the choice of any of the three Kalos first partner Pokémon : Chespin , Fennekin , and Froakie .
In " A Shockingly Cheeky Friendship! ", Serena chooses Fennekin as her first partner Pokémon and receives the Kalos Pokédex from Professor Sycamore before leaving Lumiose City. The protagonists visit Professor Sycamore's laboratory again , and there they meet Chespin , who Clemont/Lem captures at the end of the episode, after freeing Professor Sycamore/Cypress from Team/Team Rocket.
Ash and his friends return to Lumiose City in " Grooming Furfrou! " and meet a young hairdresser named Jessica . They go to meet Sherman at a grooming salon for Furfrou . It is the anime counterpart of Friseur Furfrou and has a larger role during the episode than Friseur Furfrou does in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y .
In " Clemont's Got a Secret! ", Ash and Serena meet Meyer , the father of Clemont and Bonnie. They learn that Clemont is the Gym Leader of Lumiose City. However, Ash cannot enter Prism Tower to participate in the Gym challenge, since Clembot only allows trainers with four Gym Badges to challenge him.
In " Mega-Mega Meowth Madness! ", before leaving Lumiose City, Clemont receives a Chespin from Professor Sycamore at Sycamore Pokémon Lab.
Several episodes later, in " A Showcase Debut! ", an area called Lumiose Badlands appears alongside areas of Lumiose City. The power goes out because the Team Rocket trio had taken over Kalos Power Plant (whereas Team Flare did in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y ). The outage affects the traffic in Lumiose City as well as the hospital. Clemont decides to return to the city by helicopter before the other characters so that he can train for the upcoming Gym battle against Ash at Prism Tower.
Ash, Serena, and Bonnie return to Lumiose City to meet up with Clemont again in " Battling With Elegance and a Big Smile! ", as Ash and Clemont were going to battle. The battle is cut short by Officer Jenny when she arrests Clembot for various crimes, when it had actually been framed by the Dark Clembot controlled by Belmondo . The battle resumes the next episode, " Pokémon: Mega Evolution Special III ", where Ash manages to defeat Clemont in battle and earn the Voltage Badge .
In " Good Friends, Great Training! ", the group returns to Sycamore Pokémon Lab, and after rescuing Professor Sycamore's Garchomp and its corresponding Key Stone from the Team Rocket trio, they leave Lumiose City again.
Lumiose City is the setting of the Kalos Pokémon League , as revealed in " Seeing the Forest for the Trees! ", more specifically the Lumiose Conference . In " A League of His Own! ", Ash and his friends arrive in Lumiose City for Ash to participate in the Lumiose Conference, and they also meet up with Tierno , Trevor , and Sawyer .
In " Down to the Fiery Finish! ", the Lumiose Conference has concluded, with Alain as the victor. The same episode, Lumiose City faces a new problem when Team Flare takes control over Z2 , turning it into its 50% Forme. From the Prism Tower, the gigantic roots of Z2 destroy most of Lumiose City. In " A Towering Takeover! ", Lysandre , the head of Team Flare, states that the motives behind the attack on Lumiose City is because he wants Zygarde to destroy everything so that they can remake the world in their liking.
In " Forming a More Perfect Union! ", following Team Flare's defeat, Zygarde dispels the vines that were used to destroy Lumiose City. In " Battling With a Clean Slate! ", Lumiose City begins reconstruction from all the damage, continuing into " The First Day of the Rest of Your Life! ", " Facing the Needs of the Many! ", and " Till We Compete Again! ".
Just as Lumiose City was Ash's first destination in the Kalos region, it is also his last, as in " Till We Compete Again! ", Ash says farewell his friends in the Kalos region before going to the airport to make a trip back to Pallet Town , as well as Serena to continue her journey in Hoenn .
In " A Festival Reunion! ", a portion of Lumiose City is briefly visible, specifically the central area with the Prism Tower, as Ash and Goh take a flight to Shalour City to participate in the World Coronation Series . Goh admires the view of Lumiose City.
In " The Future Is Now, Thanks to Strategy! ", Ash and Goh go to Lumiose City, where Ash has a rematch against Clemont at Prism Tower to prepare for his next World Coronation Series battle against Drasna at the Lumiose Conference the next day, taking place in " Taking Two for the Team! ".
Lumiose City is featured in a three episodes of Pokémon Generations .
Lumiose City is first seen in " The Beauty Eternal ". It is where Lysandre presents his invention, the Holo Caster . After a standing ovation, Lysandre meets with the champion Diantha at Café Soleil , where he tells her about what he thinks is beautiful. At the end of the episode, Lysandre leaves Lumiose City and goes to Geosenge Town to see the progress of Team Flare 's "Project Y."
In " The Investigation ", Looker investigates the event of the theft of Pokémon in Lumiose City. He chases the culprit, Essentia, throughout Lumiose City, until reaching Lysandre Café , where Essentia's true identity is revealed to be Emma .
In " The Redemption ", Lumiose City is the setting for the parade in honor of Calem , who had become the new Pokémon Champion of Kalos. AZ appears and soon loses to Calem in a Pokémon battle. AZ finds closure nevertheless as his long-lost Floette comes down from the sky and reunites with AZ in Lumiose City for the first time in 3,000 years. This plot is the exact same as the parade event from after completing the Pokémon League in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y
In " The Visionary ", Lumiose City is shown during a flashback during Lysandre and Calem 's battle . It is later seen in present-time in a scene with Professor Sycamore at the Sycamore Pokémon Lab .
Lumiose City first appears in " They Have a Flare for a Li'l Kanga-Napping ", when Professor Sycamore shows videos to Lysandre at the Sycamore Pokémon Lab of the battle between Yveltal and Xerneas in Vaniville Town .
In " What Does Charmander Do When It Dozes? ", the Pokédex Holders X , Y , Shauna , Tierno , and Trevor go to visit the Sycamore Pokémon Lab in Lumiose City to deliver Professor Sycamore's Charmander back to him. Professor Sycamore challenges X to a battle, like in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y . Meanwhile, the other protagonists go to Lysandre Labs so that Lysandre can repair Trevor's broken Holo Caster.
In " Pangoro Poses a Problem ", the Pokédex Holders arrive at Prism Tower, where they find Alexa being assaulted by a Pangoro , because its owner, the Editor-in-chief , is affiliated with Team Flare and wants to stop Alexa from informing the public of the incident at Vaniville Town. X defeats the Editor-in-chief in battle and the group leaves.
In " Xerneas Gives ", the protagonists make another visit to Lumiose City after defeating Team Flare. They are shocked that the residents are unaware that they had nearly been wiped out by Team Flare's ultimate weapon . The group also meets the weapon's designer, AZ , who is reunited with his long-lost Floette for the first time after having a change of heart.
Unlike the games, in " Floette Returns ", the protagonists decline Professor Sycamore's offer to throw a parade for them in Lumiose City and return to Vaniville Town for the time being instead. Three months later, Trevor, Shauna, and Tierno return to Lumiose City to live there and pursue their careers. Trevor becomes an assistant to Professor Sycamore at the Sycamore Pokémon Lab, Tierno starts a dance group in the city, and Shauna becomes a stylist at Friseur Furfrou.
Lumiose City as it appears in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS .
Lumiose City is the setting of the Prism Tower stage in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS , taking place at the location of the same name . Lumiose City starts off at daytime, but the environment becomes darker as the platform takes the fighters up Prism Tower and finally changes to night once they make it to the top. In the stage's Omega form , it is always nighttime, and the fight only takes place above Lumiose City.
The Prism Tower stage returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , with Lumiose City retaining the same environmental role as before.
Mesagoza is a location in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet . It is where the player's school is located.
The Great Crater of Paldea is a location at the heart of Paldea. Inside the crater is a vast area known as Area Zero , which is the source of the Terastal phenomenon .
Players can find Paradox Pokémon inside Area Zero. They also cannot set up Picnics inside.
Around 2,000 years prior to the events of the game, Paldea was under the rule of an emperor who ordered an expedition into the crater after hearing rumors of treasure. However, this decision would prove fatal to the empire, as it was declining after 1,000 years of exploring. Roughly 800 years prior to the events of the game, another expedition, led by the adventurer Heath , would eventually reach the bottom. During this trip, they discovered the Herba Mystica and Paradox Pokémon, which Heath recorded in the Scarlet/Violet Book and Occulture. However, the entries were highly discredited as he was accused of fabricating his story, thus relegating the book as fantasy.
The team attempted to grow the Herba Mystica outside the crater, but these failed as wild Pokémon ate the herbs, growing into the Titan Pokémon .
Roughly 60 years before the events of the game, the Terastal phenomenon was discovered. Seven years later, several research stations were built to conduct further research in the area. Professor Sada/Turo eventually remained to continue their research, whereas the others eventually left it. The Naranja/Uva Academy eventually prohibited students from entering the crater due to the instability of the area and dangerous Pokémon that resided within.
Note: This area is the mountain area surrounding the crater, not inside it.
Battle Towers are special areas set up specifically for Pokémon battles . Trainers register their Pokémon on the first floor and climb up the floors in a number of battles, fighting other trainers one by one. Pokémon that are not found in their Pokédex will not be registered as having been seen. In later games, there are a number of rules that can also be changed within the tower, such as fighting in Double Battles against the other trainers. Battles conducted here do not award experience points or money . Trainers sometimes battle for bragging rights, but they are often rewarded with rare items or points that can be used to buy rare items as well. In Johto (Generation IV only), Hoenn and Sinnoh, the Battle Tower is part of a larger Battle Frontier .
In the Sevii Islands , a smaller and simplified version of a Battle Tower can be found in the Trainer Tower .
Beginning in Generation III , the Battle Towers are run by Tower Tycoons, who essentially fulfill a similar role to that of Gym Leaders in Pokémon Gyms .
Battle Tower facilities exist in four regions in the games , and three in the anime .
Battle Tower in Pokémon Crystal.
Upon entering the Battle Tower, there will be 3 people at the counter:
The one on the left will guide you into Wireless Wi-Fi battles, where you can connect with your friends and join teams to battle. Both Single and Double Battles are available.
The one in the middle will guide you into Solo battles (1 on 1), consisting of both Single and Double Battles.
The one on the right will guide you through Nintendo Wi-Fi Battles, where you can fight against people all around the world.
All Pokémon are allowed in the Battle Tower, with the exceptions of Eggs and the following 18 Pokémon.
If you manage to defeat all 7 Trainers, or all 7 Double Battles on Multiplayer, you will be awarded with 3 BP (Battle Points) which are stored for later use. If it was a Wireless Double Battle on Pokémon Platinum version, however, you will instead receive 8 BP as opposed to 3.
BP can be spent outside the Battle Tower at the stores for certain prizes, ranging from TMs to held items. These items are usually expensive, so you need to frequently participate at the Battle Tower if you want prizes.
The Great Ball is a type of Poké Ball that has a 50% higher chance to successfully catch a Pokémon than that of a regular Poké Ball.
The Great Ball is a sphere. The top is blue with two red accents and the bottom is white. The band is black and the button is white or light gray. It has a slight resemblance to the Lure Ball . Great Balls are usually found being sold in Poké Marts . In most games, Great Balls cost 600 to purchase and can be sold for 300. In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , Great Balls cost 300 and can be sold for 150. In Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet , Great Balls can be sold for 150.
The Ultra Ball is a type of Poké Ball with a catch rate modifier that is twice of that of a standard Poké Ball and 33% more of that of a Great Ball . The Ultra Ball is black with a yellow stripe. It has a black and yellow top, often with the yellow forming an "H" on the top of the ball. Like most other Poké Balls, the Ultra Ball has a white bottom area.
In Pokémon GO , the Ultra Ball is unlocked at level 20; it can be obtained at the PokéStop and as level up reward.
The Master Ball is the rarest and by far most powerful type of Poké Ball . It has a two-shade purple top forming two brighter purple circles on the sides of the top, as well as a white letter "M" printed on the top. The Master Ball is guaranteed to capture any wild Pokémon (except for special circumstances where Poké Balls in general cannot be used), making it useful against Legendary , Mythical , or Shiny Pokémon . Prior to Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , the Master Ball can inflict fling damage of 30.
Unlike most other variants of the Poké Ball, as it is extremely rare, players are strongly advised to be cautious over when to use the Master Ball in virtually every game of the Pokémon franchise , since there are usually only one or a few to obtain in-game. From Generation II onward, additional Master Balls can be won, albeit very rarely, from the in-game Lottery if the player 's Trainer ID number matches the lottery number.
The Master Ball was originally manufactured by Silph Co. in Saffron City , but only a few were produced, as Team Rocket hijacked the building and attempted to steal them in the events of Generation I . Due to this, the Master Ball as a whole was discontinued in the lore of Generation I. However, it still appears as an obtainable Poké Ball in all other Generations.
Sullivan holding up a Master Ball, in another attempt to catch Nero, in " Whiscash and Ash "
Though it does not appear in " Beauty and the Beach ", a Master Ball is the design of a beach ball owned by Misty . Master Balls do not have any role in Pokémon the Series: The Beginning , and the only actual appearance of one is in " The Song of Jigglypuff ", where one makes a cameo as a depiction on a billboard in Neon Town .
A Master Ball would not have a true role until " Whiscash and Ash ", an episode part of Pokémon the Series: Ruby and Sapphire . Sullivan had been trying to catch a giant Whiscash named Nero for fifty years, but could never succeed. Sullivan has a Master Ball, which he believes he can use to finally capture Nero. When Sullivan faces Nero once more, he throws the Master Ball at Nero, but his attempt is unsuccessful again when Nero opens its mouth and swallows the Master Ball, rendering it useless.
A Master Ball appears amongst other Poké Balls in " Which One ~ Is It? ," an ending theme of Pokémon the Series: Diamond and Pearl in original Japanese dubs only.
In " File 3: Giovanni ", at Silph Co. , Red and Blue are informed by an employee that Silph Co. has been forced to work on a Master Ball since Team Rocket took over.
In " And Mewtwo… Three! ", Blaine has a Master Ball intended for capturing Mewtwo . When Blaine realizes he does not have a chance against Mewtwo, he gives the Master Ball to Red , who devises a plan where his Pikachu carries the Master Ball in its mouth as it gets close to Mewtwo and uses the Master Ball to capture it. Following a successful capture, Red hands the Master Ball with the caught Mewtwo over to Blaine.
In the eleventh chapter, Red is rewarded a Master Ball from the president of Silph Co. after he had saved the company from Team Rocket; this directly reflects how the Master Ball is obtained in the Generation I games of the core series .
During the twelfth and thirteenth chapters, Green tries to steal the Master Ball from Red. In the end, Red manages to catch an Articuno with the Master Ball in his possession.
Much like in Pokémon Pocket Monsters and the Generation I games within the core series, Red receives a Master Ball from the president of Silph Co. during the seventh chapter as a reward for saving the company from Team Rocket.
In Pokémon Stadium and Pokémon Stadium 2 , Master Ball represents the fourth and highest difficulty rating in various modes, such as Stadium Mode. In the latter game, Master Balls are also the largest and rarest type of Poké Ball to appear in the minigame Furret's Frolic, and the Furret that hits it into its corner earns five points.
There is also a Master Ball to obtain in Pokémon Colosseum and Pokémon XD: Gale of Darkness each. The latter game also includes Master Balls in Battle Bingo.
Master Balls were introduced late in Pokémon GO , in an update on May 22, 2023. They can be obtained by completing certain Special Research tasks. Master Balls retain the same general purpose of having a 100 percent chance of catching a wild Pokémon .
A Master Ball in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U
The Master Ball does not appear in Super Smash Bros. Brawl , but it is mentioned in the description for the Poké Ball trophy.
The Master Ball was properly introduced in the Super Smash Bros. series as an item in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , being the second item in the series to represent the Pokémon franchise, the first being Poké Ball . The Master Ball nearly always opens up to reveal a Legendary Pokémon , except on rare occasions, where a Goldeen which uses Splash is released as a dud. The Master Ball is very effective, since the summoned Legendary Pokémon can use a powerful move to assist the player.
The Master Ball returns in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate . It retains the same role as before.
It is entirely white except for the band around the middle which is red. The button in the center is also white.
The Safari Ball has a camouflage pattern on the top and a normal white bottom.
It is a useful ball for use against Water-type legendary Pokémon such as Kyogre and Palkia , as they are relatively inexpensive compared to Ultra Balls while possessing a better catch rate.
It has a light blue top with black bands crossing it in a "net" pattern, often raised above the ball's surface.
The Dusk Ball is a type of Poké Ball with a 3.5× catch rate in caves and at night, though since Generation VII , it has been lowered slightly to 3x.
In Generations IV through VI , a Dusk Ball, when used at night or in a cave, always succeeds in catching any wild Pokémon with a catch rate of 219 or higher.
Appearance wise, Quick Balls are blue with wild yellow stripes and a misshapen triangle formation in the middle. Like every Ball that the player can acquire, Quick Balls appear to be ordinary Poké Balls shape wise, with differentiating decals and unique colors molded on.
In the Sinnoh region, Quick Balls appear in the Poké Marts of these cities:
In the Kanto region, Quick Balls appear in the Poké Marts of these cities:
In both Pokémon Black Version and Pokémon White Version and Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 , Quick Balls can be found in Opelucid City's Poké Mart and Shopping Mall Nine .
In the Kalos region, Quick Balls can be found in Snowbelle City's Poké Mart, Coumarine City's Poké Mart, and the Poké Ball Boutique in Lumiose City's Autumnal Avenue. In the Hoenn region, they can be found in Fallarbor Town's Poké Mart.
In the Alola region, Quick Balls can be found in Route 8's Poké Mart and the Ball Shop in Festival Plaza .
In the Galar region, Quick Balls can be found in Wyndon's Poké Mart.
Quick Balls have a higher chance of capturing a Wild Pokémon when used at the start of a battle. At the beginning of the battle, a Quick Ball's catch rate is x5 (x4 in Generation IV). If used on any turn after the first, its catch rate drops to x1, the same as a normal Poké Ball.
Same as most other Poké Balls, the Quick Ball always has a 0.1x catch rate on catching Ultra Beasts .
Red Poké Ball with a wide black band around the middle and red button.
Two types of Potions (right) in a container with two types of Berries (left) in " A Mission of Ultra Urgency! "
Potions are a type of item introduced in Generation I .
Potions are healing items that restore a Pokémon 's HP . They are sprays that are intended to spray liquid to the wound. In the core series , the player can use a Potion by selecting it from their Bag and applying it to a Pokémon for immediate effect. Potions can be used both inside and outside of a Pokémon battle .
Potions are usually obtained by purchasing them at a Poké Mart , although Potions also appear on the ground or can be hidden throughout the player's journey .
There are four different types of potions, each restores a certain amount of HP, but the exact number sometimes changes between appearances. There are four types of Potions, each restoring more HP than the previous: standard Potion , Super Potion , Hyper Potion , and Max Potion .
Potions have appeared in some episodes of Pokémon the Series , in which they are used the same way as in the core series. Some characters use Potions to heal minor scratches on Pokémon, especially Brock , although the use of Pokémon Centers has always been more common.
The Super Potion is a healing item which is an upgraded variation of the Potion . It restores 50 HP of a Pokémon , or 60 HP as of Generation VII . It has no effect on a fainted Pokémon. A Super Potion costs 700 Pokémon Dollars to purchase at a Poké Marts , and it can be sold for 350 Poké Dollars (175 in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet ). Since Generation IV , the Super Potion is part of the Medicine pocket in the player 's bag .
The Hyper Potion is an upgraded version of the Super Potion . It restores a Pokémon by 200 HP , or 120 HP from Generation VII onward. It has no effect on a fainted Pokémon.
The Hyper Potion is depicted as a pink spray bottle.
Full Restore is an item that both fully restores the HP of and heals any status condition of a Pokémon . It is the most effective healing item, even more than the Max Potion , although Full Restore cannot be used on a fainted Pokémon. Full Restore, along with Full Heal , is the most used item by Elite Four and Champion in the games.
In Generations I-V and Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , the player can only start purchasing Full Restores from a Poké Mart once they have obtained all eight Gym Badges . In Generation VI , the minimum requirement was reduced to needing at least five Gym Badges. In most games, Full Restores cost 3000 Pokémon Dollars and can be sold for 1500 Poké Dollars.
In Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon , the player must obtain the Full Restore after they get all of the Z-Crystals on their Z-Ring in Sun and Moon or Z-Power Ring in Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon .
A Revive is a healing item that cures any fainted Pokémon , in addition to restoring half of its HP .
A Max Revive is a healing item that restores a fainted Pokémon , just like a regular Revive , in addition to restoring all of its HP fully.
A Rare Candy can be used on a Pokémon to increase its level by one, ending up with the minimum amount of Experience points of that level after leveling up. It also raises the Pokémon's friendship by a little.
If used on a fainted Pokémon, it would be revived in addition to leveling up. The revived Pokémon's HP is equal to the amount of HP increased, except for Shedinjas .
As of Generation VIII , if a Rare Candy is used on a Level 100 Pokémon that evolves by leveling up and has met the evolution requirements, it would evolve.
A Fire Stone ( ほのおのいし , Fire Stone ? ) is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation I .
It is an elliptical-shaped stone that is yellow in appearance, with a fire insignia inside of it. It evolves the following Pokémon:
A Water Stone held by a Politoed
A Water Stone ( みずのいし , Water Stone ? ) is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation I .
It is an elliptical-shaped stone that is blue in appearance, with a bubble insignia inside of it. It evolves the following Pokémon:
A Thunder Stone ( かみなりのいし , Thunder Stone ? ) , named Thunderstone before Generation VI , is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation I .
It is an elliptical-shaped stone that is green in appearance, with a thunderbolt insignia inside of it. It evolves the following Pokémon:
Route 124 (trade Yellow Shards )
The Leaf Stone is a green elliptical-shape stone on which the shape of a leaf is engraved. It evolves the following Pokémon:
In " Mystery on a Deserted Island! "
In " Make Room for Gloom ", the Team Rocket trio sells a fake Leaf Stone to Florinda , and she becomes upset that she cannot evolve her Gloom with it, unaware that the Leaf Stone is a fake until later on.
In " The Grass Route ", it is the first place prize for winning the Grass Tournament .
In " Whichever Way the Wind Blows ", some Glooms evolve from dust carried by the Leaf Stones, contradicting how direct exposure to a Leaf Stone is the typical requirement to evolve a Gloom.
In " Pikachu's Rescue Adventure ", a Leaf Stone is required to evolve an Exeggcute .
In " Mystery on a Deserted Island! ", the Leaf Stone is among the Evolutionary Stones to be found on a deserted island, as one of its treasures.
In " Forging Forest Friendships! ", Professor Cerise's Yamper discovers a Leaf Stone and gives it to Goh , who uses it to evolve his Exeggcute into an Exeggutor .
In " The Kindest Tentacruel " of the Yellow Chapter in Pokémon Adventures , it is revealed that Red took most types of Evolutionary Stones at Vermilion Harbor ( Fire Stone , Water Stone , and Thunder Stone ) so that he could alternate between evolved forms of his Eevee , but he left the Leaf Stone, as Eevee did not have an evolved form corresponding to it, at least not until Leafeon was introduced in Generation IV .
In " Triple Threat " of the Black & White Chapter , Cilan used a Leaf Stone to evolve his Pansage into a Simisear while battling the Shadow Triad .
A Moon Stone ( つきのいし , Moon Stone ? ) is an Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation I .
It is an elliptical-shaped stone that is gray in appearance, looks somewhat like a moon rock, and usually makes Fairy-group Pokémon evolve. It evolves:
A Sun Stone ( たいようのいし , Sun Stone ? ) is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation II .
The Sun Stone is orange in appearance, shaped like the sun, and usually makes plant Pokémon with some connection to the sun evolve. It evolves the following Pokémon:
A Shiny Stone ( ひかりのいし , Light Stone ? ) is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation IV .
It only evolves certain Fairy-Group Pokémon. It is an elliptical-shaped stone that is transparent in appearance, with a ball of light inside of it. It evolves the following Pokémon:
The Dusk Stone is a purplish-black, irregularly-shaped Evolutionary Stone with a dark center. It evolves the following Pokémon:
The Dusk Stone is also an item in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon series and functions identically as in the Pokémon core series .
A Dawn Stone ( めざめのいし , Awakening Stone ? ) is a type of Evolutionary Stone introduced in Generation IV .
The Dawn Stone is unusual in that it only evolves Pokémon of a determinate gender . It is a round stone, sky blue in appearance, and actually looks similar to an sunburst-cut opal. It evolves the following Pokémon:
When the player gives an Exp. Share to a Pokémon in their party, half of the experience points gained by the battling Pokémon is received by the one holding the Exp. Share.
Since Generation VI , the Exp. Share has been changed to a key item that is activated from the Bag menu instead. If it is activated, the Pokémon that have participated in battle receive the regular number of experience points, while the Pokémon that did not participate receive half the number of experience points that the other Pokémon had obtained.
Exp. Share received unique flavor text in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet despite not making an appearance, and it also has an unused icon.
It can be received by Korrina at the Tower of Mastery after defeating her in the Shalour City Gym .
The Tera Orb will cause a Pokémon to Terastallize. After it is used, it is recharged at a Pokémon Center in order to be used once more. The only times it will not be rechargeable is after battling a Titan Pokémon or an Elite Four member, it can also be used Infinitely in the Great Crater of Paldea or if Terapagos is in the player's party.
Thunderbolt deals damage and has a 10% chance of paralyzing the target. In Generations I and VI , Thunderbolt cannot paralyze Electric -type Pokémon .
In a Double Battle , Thunderbolt can target any Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Thunderbolt can only target a Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Prior to Generation VI, Thunderbolt has a base Power of 95.
In Pokémon Channel , Pikachu uses Thunderbolt on one occasion only, without being instructed by the player to use the move. On the first day, when the player tunes into Prof. Oak Report after doing a few tasks with their Pikachu, Professor Oak says that Pikachu has behaved remarkably. In response, Pikachu excitedly uses Thunderbolt, destroying the TV by mistake. Pikachu regrets using the move, and Oak is forced to send the player a temporary replacement, the black-and-white Retro TV.
The Pokémon Channel demo included on the Japanese Pokémon Colosseum Bonus Disc ends right after Pikachu uses Thunderbolt on the TV.
Flamethrower is a special move which has a ten percent chance of burning the target. Flamethrower cannot burn Fire -type Pokémon or Pokémon with the Water Veil ability. In a Double Battle , Flamethrower can target any Pokémon adjacent to the user.
In games prior to Generation VI , Flamethrower has a Power of 95.
Surf does damage to the target. If used on an underwater opponent, Surf's power will be doubled.
During a Double Battle , Surf targets all Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Surf only targets Pokémon that are adjacent to the user.
In games prior to Generation VI , Surf has a base power of 95.
Surf is also a field move in Generations I through VI, where it can be used to travel across water.
Ice Beam is an Ice - type move introduced in Generation I . It is TM13 in all generations but Generation II . In Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , it is available as TM51 .
Ice Beam deals damage and has a 10% chance to freeze the target.
In a Double Battle , Ice Beam can target any Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Ice Beam can only target a Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Earthquake is Ground - type move introduced in Generation I . It has been TM26 since Generation I. In Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , it is available as TM41 .
Earthquake does damage to the target. If Earthquake is used and the target is underground due to using Dig , Earthquake will do double the damage. If Grassy Terrain is in effect, Earthquake's damage will be cut in half. In a Double Battle , Earthquake targets all Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Earthquake only targets Pokémon that are adjacent to the user. Earthquake has no effect on Flying-type Pokémon and Pokémon with the ability Levitate .
It is TM15 in games up to Generation VII , TM48 in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , TM08 in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield , and TM163 in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet .
Hyper Beam involves the user sending a big laser at the target. After Hyper Beam is used, the user has to recharge the next turn. Since Generation IV , Hyper Beam has been reclassified as a special move , in favor of Giga Impact becoming its physical move counterpart.
Shadow Ball deals damage and has a 20% chance to lower the target's Special Defense by one stage.
In a Double Battle , Shadow Ball can target any Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Pokémon with Bulletproof are unaffected by Shadow Ball.
Template:Navbox
Psychic deals damage and has a 10% chance to lower the target's Special Defense by 1 stage. In a Double Battle , Psychic can target any Pokémon around the user; in a Triple Battle , Psychic can only target a Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Solar Beam is a Grass - type move from Generation I .
When a Pokémon uses Solar Beam, it charges on the first turn, and attacks on the second. If there is harsh sunlight on the field or the Pokémon uses a Power Herb , Solar Beam will attack on the same turn it is chosen. Solar Beam’s power is halved in snow, rain, or in a sandstorm.
Dragon Claw is a physical move with no additional effects.
Close Combat ( インファイト , Infight ? ) is a Fighting - type move introduced in Generation IV .
Close Combat does damage to the target, then lowers the user's Defense and Special Defense by 1 stage each. In a Double Battle , Close Combat can target any Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Close Combat can only target a Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Volt Tackle ( ボルテッカー , Volteccer ? ) is an Electric - type physical move . It is the signature move to the Pikachu Evolutionary line of Pokémon.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl
In the Super Smash Bros. series , Volt Tackle is Pikachu's Final Smash in every title since Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Pichu's since Super Smash Bros. Ultimate .
Upon using the move, Pikachu or Pichu turns into a large ball of electricity, able to fly around the stage freely and damage opponents they touch. The player can press the attack button to discharge electricity, dealing greater damage and knockback . After discharging, the player has to wait a second for the move to recharge. Once Volt Tackle is about to end, Pikachu or Pichu begins to slow down, and their movement becomes slightly restricted. Additionally, Pikachu cannot fly past the blast lines in this form. The only difference with Pichu's Volt Tackle is that it is stronger and deals recoil damage to the user.
Pikachu using Volt Tackle in Super Smash Bros. for Wii U
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , a ball of light appears alongside Pikachu that follows the direction the player is holding, serving as a guide, though this ball deals no damage to opponents. In Super Smash Bros. for Wii U , there is a trophy of Volt Tackle that can be unlocked by clearing All-Star Mode with Pikachu.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , Volt Tackle is automatically controlled, as Pikachu flies rapidly across the screen multiple times before finishing with a burst of electricity that launches opponents away.
PAL: For Pikachu's Final Smash, it surrounds itself with a ball of electricity and darts around at high speed, tackling opponents. While it's charging around, press the attack button to unleash powerful sparks. You can also use the little ball of light that flies just ahead of Pikachu as a guide if it seems out of control!
Hydro Pump is a Water - type move introduced in Generation I .
Hydro Pump deals damage. In a Double Battle , Hydro Pump can target any Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Hydro Pump can only target a Pokémon that's adjacent to the user.
Fire Blast is a Fire - type move that has a 10% chance of causing a burn . It was introduced in Generation I . It is Charizard 's Final Smash in Super Smash Bros. Brawl . The user releases a fire ball that creates a star-shaped explosion after damaging the opponent. In Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! , it is available as TM46 .
It was one of nine elemental moves that do the same damage of 120 HP until Fire Blast's power was changed to 110 in Generation VI . Besides Fire Blast, these moves consisted of Blizzard , Hydro Pump , Gunk Shot , Focus Blast , Hurricane , Zap Cannon , Power Whip and Megahorn .
Blizzard is a damaging move that has a 10% chance to freeze the target. In Generation IV , during Hail , Blizzard's accuracy changes to 100% and bypasses accuracy checks to always hit, unless the target is in the semi-invulnerable turn of a move. In Generation III , during a Double Battle , Blizzard targets both foes. As of Generation IV , during a Double Battle, Blizzard targets all Pokémon around the user. In a Triple Battle , Blizzard only targets adjacent foes.
In Generation I , Blizzard has an accuracy rating of 90. Furthermore, prior to Generation VI , Blizzard had a base power of 120.
In Pokémon Diamond Version and Pokémon Pearl Version , Blizzard has a 30% chance to bypass Protect and Detect in hail, but starting in Pokémon Platinum Version , Blizzard can no longer bypass them.
Overheat ( オーバーヒート , Overheat ? ) is a damaging Fire - type move introduced in Generation III .
Overheat deals damage and lowers the user's Special Attack stat for 2 stages.
Even though it was first introduced in Generation lll, the first Pokémon to learn it by level up were introduced in Generation V.
Draco Meteor ( りゅうせいぐん , Dragon Meteor Shower ? ) is a Dragon - type move introduced in Generation IV with equivalent to Overheat , Psycho Boost and Leaf Storm .
Draco Meteor is unique in the fact that it can be taught to only Dragon-type Pokémon, but any Dragon type can learn it at any level, as long as it has maxed-out friendship. Arceus , although not a true Dragon-type, can learn this move only while holding the Draco Plate . Mew can't learn Draco Meteor, despite it saying that it can learn any kind of move.
Comets are summoned down from the sky. The attack's recoil sharply reduces the user's Sp. Atk stat.
Earn +3 if the Pokémon that just went hit max Voltage.
In order for the player's Pokémon to learn Draco Meteor, he/she must travel east from Celestic Town to Route 210 and have Rock Climb . An old lady, named Grandma Wilma , lives in a cabin in the hills there, and she will teach one of the player's Pokémon on whom he/she chooses Draco Meteor. While in Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver , the move can be learned by the Move Tutor house in Blackthorn City . In Pokémon Black and White , the move can be learned at Opelucid City .
Static is an Ability introduced in Generation III . It is an exclusive Ability to Electric - type Pokémon .
In battle , there is a 30% chance that the attacking foe will be paralyzed if a contact-making move hits the Pokémon with this Ability.
When the Pokémon with this Ability is in the first position of the team, the probability of encountering Electric-type Pokémon increases.
Blaze ( もうか , Mouka ? ) is an Ability introduced in Generation III . It is an exclusive ability to Fire - type Pokémon , mostly Starters, with the exception of Pansear and its evolution.
The damage of Fire -type moves are increased by 1.5x its original damage when the user's HP is 30% or lower.
It is the most seen ability out if the 3 base starter abilities in the anime, with 4 Pokémon from 3 evolutionary line using it. Theses are May's Blaziken (only as Blaziken), Ash's Infernape in all 3 evolutionary stages (and became notorious for activating it), and both Ash's and Professor Kukui's Incineroar (though the former did so as Torracat, its pre-evolution, when battling the latter).
Torrent ( げきりゅう , Gekiryuu ? ) is an Ability introduced in Generation III . It is an exclusive ability to Water - type Pokémon .
Torrent raises the Pokémon's Water -type attacks, making them do 150% damage. However, this only happens when the Pokémon's HP is at 30% or less of its maximum HP.
Only Water-type Elemental Monkeys in addition to Water -type Starter can have it.
Overgrow ( しんりょく , Shinryoku ? ) is an Ability introduced in Generation III , exclusive to Grass -type Pokémon.
Overgrow increases the holder's Grass -type moves ' damage by 50% when the Pokémon has less than 30% of its original HP remaining. Overgrow has no effect outside of battle .
Only Grass-type Elemental Monkeys in addition to Grass -type Starter can have it.
Intimidate ( いかく , Ikaku ? ) is an ability introduced in Generation III . 42 Pokémon have this ability, two are Mega Pokémon , and four are regional form .
Upon entering the battle, Intimidate lowers the opponent's Attack stat by one stage. Prior to Generation VIII, if the user is in the lead spot of the player's party, the rate of encountering wild Pokémon whose level is at least 5 levels less than that of the user is reduced by 50%.
Levitate ( ふゆう , Levitate ? ) is an ability introduced in Generation III . 43 Pokémon have this ability, four are Mega Pokémon , and one is a regional form .
Levitate makes the Pokémon immune to all ground -Type moves with the exception of Thousand Arrows . Pokémon with Levitate also do not take damage from Spikes , do not become poisoned from Toxic Spikes or have their speed lowered from Sticky Web . poison Types with Levitate do not clear Toxic Spikes upon switching in. Pokémon with levitate do not gain the effects of terrain. All of these effects are nullified if the Pokémon is holding an Iron Ball , used Ingrain , was hit by Smack Down , or Gravity is in effect.
*Gengar had Levitate up until Pokémon Sun & Moon, where it was replaced with Cursed Body .
Protean ( へんげんじざい , Hengen Jizai ? ) is a Hidden ability introduced in Generation VI , identical to Libero . Eight Pokémon have this ability, one is a Mega Pokémon .
The Pokémon's type will change into that of whatever move it uses and can receive STAB accordingly. From Generation IX onwards, this only works once per battle.
Speed Boost is an ability introduced in Generation III . 14 Pokémon have this ability, one is a Mega Pokémon .
After every turn, the Pokémon with Speed Boost gains 1 stage in its Speed stat.
Wonder Guard ( ふしぎなまもり , Mysterious Protection ? ) is an Ability exclusive to Shedinja , introduced in Generation III .
Pokémon with Wonder Guard are immune to attacks that are not super effective. Wonder Guard does not protect the Pokémon against Struggle or moves that deal a fixed amount of damage, provided the move is a type the Pokémon is weak to, so Night Shade would hit a Shedinja , but Seismic Toss wouldn’t. Wonder Guard does not prevent damage from burn , poison , confusion , entry hazards, recoil , or weather . Wonder Guard is ignored by the abilities Mold Breaker , Teravolt , or Turboblaze . Wonder Guard cannot be copied with Role Play , Receiver , or Power of Alchemy or traded with Skill Swap or Wandering Spirit .
A Pokéstar Studios Dark / Ghost -type opponent named Majin has Wonder Guard. With that:
Beast Boost ( ビーストブースト , Biisuto Buusuto ? ) is an Ability exclusive to the Ultra Beasts , introduced in Generation VII . Eleven Pokémon have this Ability.
Beast Boost raises the Pokémon’s highest stat that isn't HP by 1 stage when it knocks out a Pokémon.
Protosynthesis ( こだいかっせい , Kodai Kassei ? , lit. Ancient Activation ) is an Ability exclusive to ancient Paradox Pokémon , introduced in Generation IX .
It is the ancient counterpart to Quark Drive .
Photosynthesis increases the Pokémon’s highest stat by 30% or 50% if speed if Harsh Sunlight is active or the Pokémon is holding a Booster Energy .
Mega Evolution ( メガ 進化 , Mega Shinka ? ) , also titled Ultimate Evolution ( 究極体進化 , Kyuukyokutai Shinka ? ) , [ citation needed ] is a mechanic introduced in Generation VI .
Mega Mewtwo Y vs. Mega Lucario
Mega Evolution is a type of evolution that involves certain species of Pokémon becoming a more powerful form of themselves, which is normally only possible during battles . Pokémon that have undergone Mega Evolution retain the name of their normal form, but with "Mega" added to the front. Mega Evolutions are sometimes described as their own species, but they are more just an alternate form .
The Pokédex entries for Mega-Evolved Pokémon in Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon mostly state that Mega Evolution greatly hurts certain species, such as Gyarados , Sableye , and Aerodactyl , prompting them to become violent. Contrarily, the Pokédex entries in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! are more centered around the positive changes than the negative impacts.
The Mega Evolution mechanic was retired in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield in favor of a similar mechanic, Gigantamax . However Mega Evolution did return in Pokémon Legends: Z-A .
Only a few living people are privy to the secret of Mega Evolution, such as Korrina , her grandfather, Gurkinn , Emma , and Steven Stone and the Meteorians from the Hoenn region. Furthermore, the Tower of Mastery , the sundial in Anistar City , and some Legendary Pokémon are connected to Mega Evolution.
The first recorded instance of a Mega Evolution occurred a thousand years ago. A meteor hit the sea in the southeast of the Hoenn region, forming a crater where Sootopolis City would be built several years later. The energy of the impact formed cracks in the region's ground, from which natural energy stored deep underground began to emerge and would reawaken Primal Groudon and Primal Kyogre from their sleep and cause them to fight again their old feud. Rayquaza , whose role is to quell Groudon and Kyogre from fighting, managed to Mega Evolve into Mega Rayquaza and end the fight.
After AZ fired the Ultimate Weapon for the first time, the energy which was infused with the powers of Xerneas and Yveltal scattered around and caused stones to be affected. Due to Lysandre having fired the Ultimate Weapon for the second time, more Mega Stones are being discovered five years after the disbandment of Team Flare .
Mega Evolution is triggered in various ways throughout the series.
Mega Evolution is usually triggered by the interaction of a Mega Stone and either a Mega Ring , a Mega Bracelet , or a Key Stone . Each type of Mega Stone only works when held by a specific species of Pokémon, and the minerals are named after the corresponding Pokémon, such as Lucarionite . Meanwhile, Key Stones are usually held by a Pokémon Trainer , and both Mega Stones and Key Stones can trigger Mega Evolution together if there is a particularly close bond between trainer and Pokémon. Despite several sources stating that a large bond is required to Mega Evolve a Pokémon, this is not reflected in the core series , where friendship or affection is not required to Mega Evolve a Pokémon.
In Pokémon GO, Mega Raid eggs may appear above Gyms and hatch after a set amount of time. Once hatched, a Mega evolved Raid Boss will last 45 minutes. Trainers can take it down in a team of up to 20 trainers. Once defeated, each player will earn 150-250 Mega Energy of the respective Pokémon depending on the speed of completing the raid, along with other rewards, and an encounter with the Pokémon, which may or may not be Shiny for lucky trainers.
In addition to these Mega Pokémon, a special variant exists called a Super Mega Pokémon. Unlike regular ones that suggest at least a few trainers, these require 8-10 or more for a successful defeat, as they have a greater scale of HP. Trainers are also required to bring a Mega Evolved Pokémon of their own to win, as the Raid Boss will get enraged at one point and put up shields, which can only be broken with a Mega Pokémon's Charged Attack. Only one shield can be broken by one trainer, and if not broken by at least 8-10 trainers, the boss will not be subdued. Once all the shields are broken, the boss takes a great amount of damage and can be defeated so long as everyone attacks. A successful battle will yield 450-250 Mega Energy.
In some events, Mega Raids just appear in a set time with no egg prior to it.
Pokémon sometimes fall victim to energy that fills them to the brim with power, and forces unwanted evolution. Similarly to Mega Raids, Rogue Mega Pokémon are Pokémon that have been exposed to a certain energy that causes them to Mega Evolve without the need of a trainer. This causes them to overflow with power due to the lack of stabilization, and often leads to the Pokémon to run rampage and wreak havoc. However, as shown in their debut game, Pokémon Legends Z-A, trainers face off against the wild rampaging Pokémon. If unlocked, they can use their own Mega Powers too, to counter the powerhouse and revert it back to it's normal form in no time.
Kyogre and Groudon both require the Blue Orb or Red Orb respectively to Revert into their Primal Formes. In Pokémon GO, this is changed into 400 Primal Energy of each Legendary Pokémon.
Rayquaza is a special exception for many of the methods above. It is the only Pokémon that does not Mega Evolve through the use of stones or an item, but it requires knowing the move Dragon Ascent . In Pokémon's various games, a Meteorite is required to teach it said move (and 400 Rayquaza Mega Energy in Pokémon GO). In Pokémon GO, Primal Raids (Kyogre and Groudon) along with Mega Rayquaza, trainers will only earn 100-60 Mega Energy per Raid depending on the speed of their defeat.
Pidgeot Mega Evolving into Mega Pidgeot
There are 87 species of Pokémon that can Mega Evolve and a total of 93 Mega Evolutions (Including Primal Groudon and Kyogre).
The only Pokémon species with three Mega Evolutions are Charizard , Mewtwo , and Raichu (currently not available in any media apart from trailers). Charizard's are Mega Charizard X and Mega Charizard Y, Mewtwo's are Mega Mewtwo X and Mega Mewtwo Y, and Raichu's are Mega Raichu X and Mega Raichu Y, respectively. The reason why each one's name ends with an "X" or "Y" is because in their debut, Pokémon X and Pokémon Y , the necessary Mega Stones are version-exclusive, like Mewtwonite X appearing in Pokémon X and resulting in Mega Mewtwo X (with the exception of Raichu being a DLC Pokémon in a game with only one version). It is still possible to trade the exclusive Mega Stones between game versions. For Charizard and Mewtwo, Pokémon's Mega-Evolved forms in Pokémon X alter their types, but not the Pokémon Y counterparts. Raichu is yet to be confirmed for a type change. In other media featuring Mega Evolutions, the decision of whether Charizard or Mewtwo appear with their "X" or "Y" form appears to be done arbitrarily.
Mew and Ditto can uniquely take on the form of a Mega Evolved Pokémon, despite not having one themselves.
The Ralts family is currently the only family of Pokémon to have two Mega Evolutions while being part of a branching family.
Latias and Latios , are the only two Pokémon species who can Mega Evolve outside of battle, which is necessary for the player to soar around the overworld in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire .
The final-stage evolved forms of the Kanto first partner Pokémon and Gengar are the only Pokémon that can both Mega Evolve and Gigantamax.
While most Pokémon retain their original typing when they Mega Evolve, some may single typed Pokémon will gain a secondary type, or even change one of their types. Examples include Ampharos gaining Dragon as a secondary type on top of its initial Electric-type, or Mega Charizard X exchanging Flying for Dragon . In extremely rare case, a dual type Pokémon may even lose one of its types. Currently, there is only one Pokémon whose primary type changes.
Mega Sceptile previously had a unique type combination of Grass / Dragon in Generation VI, but this would no longer be the case with the introduction of Alolan Exeggutor . If excluding regional variants, this type combo's uniqueness is broken in Generation 8, with the introduction of the Applin family.
Similar to types, certain species of Pokémon have different Abilities upon Mega Evolving.
Tyranitar , Medicham , and Abomasnow are the only species that retain their main Abilities after Mega Evolving, as well as Scizor if its Ability is Technician .
When a Mega Evolution occurs, the Pokémon receives 100 points in their stats , which are uniquely distributed depending on each Mega Evolution, although not for their HP . In Generation VI only, the only exception is Alakazam , whose Mega form gains only 90 points, but this has changed since Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon , where its Special Defense is 105 instead of 95, keeping the 100-point increase consistent. Some Pokémon lose stats upon Mega Evolving, such as Mega Ampharos losing Speed .
In the core series , Mega Evolution has a priority of +5, always occurring after switching out a Pokémon or when using Pursuit , but before status moves like Protect .
A Pokémon can Mega Evolve and use a move in the same turn, which can be done using an option below the moves, so it is not necessary to Mega Evolve in every battle. Mega Evolution is indicated by a Key Stone icon next to the name, which will overlap and hide the level icon in the Generation VI games or be placed below it in Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and their upper versions Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon . After a Pokémon Mega Evolves, it cannot be used on another Pokémon in the same battle, even if the Pokémon that had Mega Evolved faints . Mega Evolution is not possible to do in Double Battles or Triple Battles , although it is during Multi Battles .
The Pokémon's Ability changes in the round it Mega Evolves. Since the order that Pokémon can use their moves is determined at the start of a battle, Mega Banette (through Prankster ) does not receive increased priority on status moves in the round it evolves.
Mega Evolution plays a role during the plot in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y . Professor Sycamore is researching Mega Evolution. At his lab in Lumiose City , Professor Sycamore allows the player to choose one of the three Kanto first partner Pokémon ( Bulbasaur , Charmander , or Squirtle ), each holding a Mega Stone, encouraging the player as well as their four rivals to support him in his research behind Mega Evolution.
Professor Sycamore lastly reports on the Holo Caster of Gurkinn before the player reaches Shalour City . The five protagonists convene at the Tower of Mastery , where it is decided that only one of them can receive a Key Stone. After the player has defeated their rivals and the Gym Leader Korrina , they can face Korrina Mega Lucario at the top of the tower and receive the Mega Ring .
Mega Latias and Mega Latios were programmed in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y , but they could not be obtained legitimately until the release of Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , only by transferring their respective Mega Stones.
In Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , Steven Stone specializes in the research of Mega Evolution. The role of the Key Stone is replaced by a Mega Bracelet , which is received after rescuing Latios from Team Magma in Pokémon Omega Ruby or Latias from Team Aqua in Pokémon Alpha Sapphire , and from this, the player can use Key Stone, introducing another method of exploring the overworld.
It is possible for a Pokémon to Mega Evolve during the Talent Round of a Pokémon Contest if it is holding its corresponding Mega Stone.
Mega Evolution has a large role in Delta Episode , which revolves around a meteorite that threatens to hit the region. The mysterious dragon trainer Zinnia gradually lets the player in on the long history of Mega Evolution and finally succeeds in averting the catastrophe with the help of the legendary Mega Rayquaza. Here, Rayquaza is the only Pokémon that has already Mega Evolved upon starting a battle, specifically against Deoxys .
An Ace Trainer on Route 126 tells the player that Mega Evolution originated in Hoenn , so it is the best region to discover the secrets of Mega Evolution. According to legends from the Draconid people , Rayquaza had Mega Evolved due to the energy of a giant meteorite combined with Hoenn's inhabitants praying for help to end the battle between Primal Groudon and Primal Kyogre.
In Generation VII , unlike the previous generation, Speed is taken into account during the turn that the Pokémon had undergone a Mega Evolution, not the turn afterward. Mega Evolutions do not have as large of a role as in the previous generation due to the appearance of Z-Moves .
In Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon , the player is only introduced to Mega Evolution after entering the Hall of Fame . The player meets Sina and Dexio in the Ancient Poni Path , where they are given a Key Stone and an Alakazite .
In Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , Mega Evolving only requires having the Key Stone and the Mega Stone of the Pokémon in the Bag , because held items are not possible in the game.
Mega Evolution made a return in Pokémon Legends: Z-A , which also marked the first time new Mega Evolutions were introduced since Pokémon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire in Generation VI. Rather than turn-based battles, real-time battles occur. This means that while Mega Pokemon will get stronger, they will not get certain aspects such as abilities or priorities , since that is determined by Z-A's battle system. In addition, Mega Evolution is not required to occur in battle. Trainers can Mega Evolve their Pokemon whenever they want, wherever they want.
Legends Z-A's paid DLC Mega Dimension introduced 19 new Mega Evolutions, with Absol, Lucario, and Garchomp getting Z Mega Evolutions. This variant has no wind-up time, but depletes Mega Power at a faster rate.
In Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon , Pokémon with the ability to Mega Evolve can accomplish this from an Awakening Emera attached to a Looplet, instead of the usual Mega Stones. Since Charizard and Mewtwo have two Mega Evolutions, theirs is selected upon evolving randomly. As usual, Rayquaza has to know Dragon Ascent to be able to Mega Evolve.
A Mega Evolution has several differences from the core series. One of the largest changes is that more than one Mega Evolution can be achieved at a time, provided that every Pokémon with the ability is each equipped with an Awakening Emera.
A Mega Evolved Pokémon is surrounded by a blue aura surrounding it. It also has an energy shield that protects it from frontal moves (excluding ranged attacks), as long as the opposing Pokémon is locked in front of the Mega-Evolved Pokémon. The normal attack of a Mega-Evolved Pokémon has a range of two squares, a width of three squares, and can hit up to six enemies as well as destroy certain walls.
Each time a Mega-Evolved Pokémon attacks or takes damage that is reflected by the energy shield, the Mega Evolution bar fills up, with the color of the Pokémon's aura changing from blue to green, then yellow, then orange, and lastly red when it is filled. The bar also changes when the player moves around, which is normally hardly noticeable unless it moves around a lot. When the Mega-Evolved Pokémon has a full Mega Evolution bar and a red aura, it enters Berserk mode, in which it moves around and randomly attack any Pokémon in their path for eight turns, including allies. The only way to prevent Berserk mode and therefore its side effect is with the Air Looplet , obtained from Darkrai at the Distress Mountain .
If a Pokémon cannot Mega Evolve, it enters Awakened mode, in which has mostly the same effects, except it cannot use a Mega-Evolved move nor enter Berserk mode when the bar reaches full capacity. Their status wears off a lot sooner than a Mega-Evolved Pokémon.
In Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Rescue Team DX , it is now an Empowerment Seed that allows a Pokémon to Mega Evolve, but it is still very similar as in the previous game. It has all of the benefits of the attack of the Awakening status, such as a guaranteed direct hit with every damage-inflicting move.
In Pokémon Shuffle , Mega Evolving is done from Mega Stones, just like in the main games, except a Pokémon can Mega Evolve only by occupying the first slot in the party , not from any additional Key Stone. Once the player has the corresponding Mega Stone for their Pokémon, they can have it Mega Evolve by first filling the Mega Gauge on the left side. To fill the bar, the player has to combine a certain number of icons of whichever Pokémon they wish to Mega Evolve.
In Pokémon Rumble World , Mega Stones can be acquired and bound to the corresponding Pokémon. While exploring an area, the player can press the Mega Evolution button to have their Pokémon with a Mega Stone undergo Mega Evolution. Unlike the core series, several Mega Evolutions can be triggered in one battle.
In Pokkén Tournament , there is a bar that charges up from moves either dealt or received, and once it is full, the user can either use a powerful special move or Mega Evolve battle participant to use powerful special attacks or to mega evolve. Lucario Gardevoir , Gengar , Charizard , Blaziken , Sceptile , Scizor , Mewtwo , and Shadow Mewtwo all have the ability to Mega Evolve. In the case of Mewtwo and Charizard, they each become their X Mega-Evolved forms. When the meter runs back out, the Pokémon returns to normal, with the exception of Shadow Mewtwo, who Mega Evolves at the start of each battle and stays this way up until the battle concludes.
Two battle stages show depictions of a Mega-Evolved Pokémon in some form. At Dragon's Nest , there is a both a floor painting and a large statue of Mega Rayquaza. At Old Ferrum Town (Winter) , there is a large snow sculpture of Mega Swampert . Neither of the Mega-Evolved Pokémon are playable.
In Pokémon Picross , there are puzzles of Mega Evolutions that the player can unlock by purchasing the Mega Pencil for 500 Picroit. Mega-Evolved Pokémon have improved abilities compared to their regular counterparts, as usual, can be used for larger puzzles. Only one Mega Evolution can be activated at a time, much like battles in the core series.
Mega Evolution was added to Pokémon GO from an update on August 27, 2020, though some Mega Evolutions would become available later on. Unlike the core series, a Pokémon Mega Evolves through the use of Mega Energy . Mega Evolution is only exclusive to certain species of Pokémon, as usual, but it is not usable by any Shadow Pokémon or Cloned Pokémon . Mega Evolutions can be used in raids, arena battles and against other trainers, but not in the GO Battle League . They cannot be placed in Gyms . Mega-Evolved Pokémon have improved stats and keep their form for eight hours before reverting back. They also boosts allied Pokémon in Raid Battles .
It is only possible to have one Mega Evolution at a time, like in the core series, so if a player attempts to Mega Evolve another Pokémon one is already active, a message shows up, warning that the previous one will end if they continue. As of September 2021, the player can see the CP that their Pokémon receives upon Mega Evolving.
Pokémon UNITE
In Pokemon UNITE, Mewtwo is able to mega evolve into both of its mega forms due to a mega gauge it has. Once the gauge is filled up, it will mega evolve for a shortened period. Lucario is able to mega evolve in a different way. Mega Lucario is a separate UNITE license from base Lucario, and when unlocked, and using its UNITE move, it will mega evolve for a shortened period of time.
In Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS / Wii U , Charizard , Lucario , are Mewtwo can Mega Evolve temporarily during their Final Smash , into Mega Charizard X, Mega Lucario, and Mega Mewtwo Y, respectively, all of whom are stronger than their base form. Mega Mewtwo Y has the ability to use Psystrike .
Each game has their own trophies of Mega-Evolved Pokémon. Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS has both Mega Venusaur and Mega Blastoise . Meanwhile, Super Smash Bros. for Wii U has not only a trophy of Mega Blastoise and Mega Venusaur, but also Mega Kangaskhan , Mega Blaziken , Mega Lucario, Mega Charizard X, and both Mega Mewtwo X and Y each.
In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate , Mewtwo retains its Final Smash Psystrike, becoming Mega Mewtwo Y when using the move. Lucario still Mega Evolves for its Final Smash, this time being the Aura Storm . Charizard does not Mega Evolve at all, being one of the three Pokémon usable by the Pokémon Trainer like in Super Smash Bros. Brawl .
There are five Spirits of a Mega-Evolved Pokémon, specifically Mega Charizard X, Mega Diancie , Mega Kangaskhan , Mega Lucario, and Mega Mewtwo Y.
Mega Evolutions make several appearance in Pokémon the Series: XY and Pokémon the Series: XYZ . The series has four special episodes that are collectively titled the Mega Evolution Specials and two regular episodes with "Mega Evolution" in the title, " The Bonds of Mega Evolution! " and " Origins of Mega Evolution! ".
A Mega-Evolved Pokémon first appears in as early as the first episode, " Kalos, Where Dreams and Adventures Begin! ", specifically a Mega Blaziken owned by masked, superhero-like trainer. The trainer is later revealed to be the father of Clemont and Bonnie . Mega Blaziken would go on to appear in other episodes, such as " Mega-Mega Meowth Madness! ".
The Mega Evolution Specials center around Alain and his Mega Charizard X . The two of them first appear in " Pokémon: Mega Evolution Special I ", along with all existing Mega Evolutions up to that point in the intro. In the same episode, Garchomp , Absol , and Blastoise also appear in their Mega forms. Both Steven Stone and his Mega Metagross would go on to appear in " Pokémon: Mega Evolution Special II " and " Pokémon: Mega Evolution Special III ", as well as Rayquaza and the latter special even updates the intro to also showcase every Mega Evolution introduced since Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire .
In the last of the Mega Evolution Specials, " Pokémon: Mega Evolution Special IV ", Alain is finally challenged by Lysandre to defeat ten Pokémon Trainers and their Mega Pokémon, including Mega Venusaur , Mega Alakazam , Mega Heracross , Mega Ampharos , Mega Aggron , and Mega Pinsir . Alain lastly battles the Elite Four member Malva and her Mega Houndoom . In the ending, a trainer with a Mega Banette can be seen.
In " The Bonds of Evolution! ", the protagonists meet Diantha and her Mega Gardevoir , which can quickly defeat various Pokémon Trainers and Team Rocket . It appears in its Mega form once again in " Championing a Research Battle! ", fighting against Ash and his Greninja .
Korrina's Mega Lucario
Korrina has a Lucario that first Mega Evolves in " The Cave of Trials! ", after she finally finds a Lucarionite . Mega Lucario does not learn how to control itself until " The Bonds of Mega Evolution! ". Several episodes later, in " A Diamond in the Rough! ", Mega Lucario fights Alain's Mega Charizard X, but loses to it in battle .
" The Bonds of Mega Evolution! " also introduces a Mega-Evolved Pokémon, Mega Mawile , which joins its owner, Mabel , by supporting Korrina in training Lucario.
Professor Sycamore 's specialty lies in the research of Mega Evolution, just like in the core series . He has a Garchomp that manages to Mega Evolve by " Garchomp's Mega Bond! ". He travels to the Kalos region to observe other Mega Pokémon. In " A Giga Battle with Mega Results! ", he gives a Key Stone to Nurse Joy after she had discovered an Audinite , allowing Nurse Joy's Audino to Mega Evolve and therefore increase its healing capabilities by a lot.
Ash does not have any Pokémon that can Mega Evolve, although in " The Legend of the Ninja Hero! ", his Greninja became a unique form named Ash-Greninja for the first time, achieving it through a Bond Phenomenon . This form of Greninja has not been seen in the anime since Pokémon the Series: XYZ , and has only appeared in the games through Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon .
In " A Meeting of Two Journeys! ", Ash meets Alain for the first time, who is known from the special episodes on Mega Evolution. They have a battle in which Ash's Greninja loses to Alain's Mega Charizard X , which is also used in the battle against Ash in " The Synchronicity Test! ". In " A Diamond in the Rough! ", there is a battle between Alain's Charizard and Korrina's Lucario, both in their respective Mega-Evolved forms, and Alain's Charizard manages to win, earning Alain his eighth and final Gym Badge of the Kalos region, the Rumble Badge .
Wulfric has a Key Stone, which he uses to make his Abomasnow Mega Evolve in the rematch against Ash. Both Wulfric and his Abomasnow end up losing to Ash and his Greninja.
At the Lumiose Conference , many of the Pokémon Trainers have Mega-Evolved Pokémon. In the preliminary rounds, Trevor and his Mega Charizard Y battle Alain's Mega Charizard X. Astrid and her Absol as well as Remo and his Mega Garchomp , who are also known from the special episodes on Mega Evolution, manage to rank high as well. Finally, Sawyer surprises the audience with the Mega Evolution of his Sceptile .
In " Coming Apart at the Dreams! ", it is revealed that Lysandre has a shiny Gyarados, which has a Gyaradosite , giving it the ability to Mega Evolve and cause immense destructive power.
Mega Evolutions are not as major in Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon like with the previous series, parallel to Mega Evolutions not having as large of a role in Generation VII compared to Generation VI .
In " Big Sky, Small Fry! ", Lana jokes about fishing for a Mega Gyarados , allowing her to acquire a Z-Crystal .
In " When Regions Collide! ", when Ash and his friends travel to Kanto , it is revealed that Misty and Brock are able to Mega Evolve their Gyarados and Steelix , respectively. Brock's Mega Steelix helps Brock to defeat Kiawe and Turtonator in battle. On the other hand, Misty's Mega Gyarados loses from Ash's Pikachu using a Z-Move on it.
In " The Prism Between Light and Darkness! ", Gozu has an Aggron that he Mega Evolves while battling Professor Kukui and Faba . Mega Aggron was powerful enough to defeat Professor Kukui's Braviary and Faba's Hypno and Alakazam from only a single hit but loses from Professor Kukui's Incineroar using a Z-Move on it.
In " Battling Besties! ", Ilima has a Kangaskhan that Mega Evolves while battling Guzma and his Scizor . Mega Kangaskhan actually loses to Scizor, despite the latter not being in its Mega form.
In " An Adventure of Mega Proportions! ", Ash tells Korrina that he wants his Lucario to Mega Evolve. She first gives Ash a Key Stone, and together with her grandfather, Gurkinn , the groups goes to Mega Island in search of the other required item, Lucarionite . Gurkinn Mega Evolves his Alakazam , which proceeds to battle Ash's Lucario to test if they are worthy for the item. Ash's Lucario manages to win, earning Ash the Lucarionite and his first Pokémon with the ability to Mega Evolve.
By the next episode, " Battle Three with Bea! ", Ash battles Bea . When Ash's Lucario has taken a lot of damage, Ash tries to get it to Mega Evolve, but Lucario refuses. The battle continues into " A Battle of Mega Versus Max! ", where after Lucario defeats Bea's Grapploct , Bea sends out her Bea's Machamp , which is when Lucario allows for its Mega Evolution, although the Machamp performs Gigantamax . Mega Lucario is able to inflict heavy damage on Machamp while surviving its Dynamax attacks and Gigantamax. Ash and his Lucario ultimately win after Machamp is defeated from Steel Beam .
In " Taking Two for the Team! ", Drasna has an Altaria that Mega Evolves while battling Ash at the World Coronation Series . It is ultimately defeated by Ash's Sirfetch'd .
The Mewtwo in Pokémon the Movie: Genesect and the Legend Awakened and its prologue, " Mewtwo — Prologue to Awakening ," has the ability to Mega Evolve into Mega Mewtwo Y. With the former being a canon Pokémon the Series: Black & White movie, this is the first instance of Mega Evolution ever being featured in the anime. However, it would not be referred to by name until " Lumiose City Pursuit! ".
In Pokémon the Movie: Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction , the intro to the film, Wikstrom and his Mega Scizor are seen battling Diantha and her Mega Gardevoir . More notably, during the main plot of the film, Diancie Mega Evolves into Mega Diancie to protect the Allearth Forest from Yveltal and restore its home, the Diamond Domain . In addition, the diamond Diancie makes while on the ferry to Orsay City is revealed to be Diancite, though none of the characters - Diancie herself included - end up finding this out. This is the only instance of a Mega Stone being created in the anime.
In Pokémon the Movie: Hoopa and the Clash of Ages , the Latias , Latios , and Shiny Rayquaza summoned by Hoopa Confined all have the ability to Mega Evolve.
In Pokémon the Movie: Volcanion and the Mechanical Marvel , Mega Evolution has a larger role than in the previous three films, with several Mega-Evolved Pokémon also making an appearance. Alva , using his Neo-Arcane science, intended to use a technique known as the Mega Wave to control and use Pokémon capable of Mega Evolution to conquer the Azoth Kingdom . However, the corrupt politician's scheme was ultimately foiled by Ash, who destroyed the crystal by jamming it into machinery.
In " File 4: Charizard ", Red's Charizard manages to Mega Evolve into Mega Charizard X from Charizardite X while battling Mewtwo .
Mega Evolution is featured in the X & Y Chapter and Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire Chapter of Pokémon Adventures . Of them only 21 of the 28 Mega Evolutions introduced in Pokémon X and Pokémon Y have appeared in the X & Y Chapter, while for the Omega Ruby & Alpha Sapphire Chapter only 15 Mega Evolutions of the 20 that were introduced in Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire have appeared.
A Mega-Evolved Pokémon first appears in " X-actly What They Wanted ", specifically X 's Kangaskhan . When Aliana and Mable of Team Flare try to steal X's Kangaskhan, it Mega Evolves into Mega Kangaskhan and defeats Aliana's Pyroar and Mable's Houndoom , sending the duo fleeing.
By the next chapter, " Inn-teresting Developments ", Trevor is shown to be fascinated by Mega Evolution because of X's Kangaskhan and finds a Kangaskhanite in the Kangaskhan's pouch, which is what gives it the ability to Mega Evolve.
In " Kangaskhan… Kangascan't ", X and his friends reach Santalune City , where they are attacked by Celosia , who is also after the Kangamanite . Korrina appears with her Mega Lucario to fight Celosia's Aegislash . Despite not having a Mega-Evolved Pokémon, Celosia is able to escape, then Korrina reveals more about Mega Evolution to the protagonists.
In " Noibat Stands in the Way ", at the Lysandre Café Diantha has her Gardevoir Mega Evolve into Mega Gardevoir to protect Y , Tierno , Shauna , and Trevor from Lysandre , as well as to demonstrate her strength.
In " Heracross Transforms ", it is revealed in a flashback that Gurkinn has a Heracross that can Mega Evolve.
At the end of " Fast-Thinking Froakie ", X suggests that the Manectric with them wants the ability to Mega Evolve like his Kangaskhan. Clemont uses an Aipom Arm to begin searching for the necessary Manectite in a nearby tree, unaware that a Team Flare Grunt also wants to claim it for himself. Two chapters later, in " Morphing Manectric ", the Manectric who had joined X's party Mega Evolves into its Mega form and manages to defeat the Team Flare Grunt.
In " Changing Gengar ", Gurkinn is shown to have another Pokémon that can Mega Evolve, Gengar , which he gives to X. The Gengar, nicknamed Garma, is used by X to Mega Evolve into Mega Gengar and defeat Emma's Trevenant .
There are several trading card of Mega-Evolved Pokémon since the XY expansion of the Pokémon Trading Card Game . All of them are Pokémon-EX .
For Project Voltage , Mega Evolution is presented in two music videos.
In " Mugen no Ticket ," Hatsune Miku and KAITO evolve Latias and Latios into their Mega forms before using them to travel around.
In " MELLOMELLOID ," Miku Mega Evolves her Mawile to intensify the finale of the song. Miku herself also Mega Evolves, making her the only character to have ever done this.
A Z-Move ( Zワザ , Z Waza ? ) is a gameplay mechanic introduced in Generation VII . Z-Moves are very strong and powerful attacks that Pokémon can gain access to. However, Z-Moves are used only once for each battle. Z-Moves can be activated only with a special item called a Z-Crystal and a Z-Ring . Ash Ketchum has obtained a Z-Ring in the Sun and Moon anime along with a Normalium Z, Electrium Z, Grassium Z, Rockium Z, Solganium Z, Lycanium Z, Steelium Z, Firium Z, and Pikashunium Z.
There are eighteen Z-Moves based on type, and seventeen Z-Moves exclusive to a species. The base power and category are based on the move of the said type the user is holding. Damaging Z-Moves never miss. A Pokémon cannot fully protect itself from damaging Z-Moves, taking 25% of the usual damage.
If it is a status move, it will use a powered up version of that move, with an additional effect alongside its standard effect. If the user knows two or more moves of the same type, one can choose what move can be used.
An example scenario: A Pokémon holding the Normalium Z knows Hyper Beam, Body Slam, and Screech. You can choose which Z-Move to be used and turned into Breakneck Blitz: Z-Hyper Beam is special and has 200 base power, whereas Z-Body Slam is physical and has 160 base power. Z-Screech is also possible, which will, in addition to lowering the opponent's Defense 2 stages, raise this Pokémon's attack by 1 stage.
Certain Pokémon (or in some cases, forms of specific Pokémon) have signature Z-Moves that only they can use, which requires a special Z-Crystal instead of the standard type -based crystals. Unlike normal Z-Moves, they require a specific move, rather than simply a move of the same type as the Z-Crystal.
A Dynamax Raichu
Dynamax ( ダイマックス , Daimax ? , lit. lit. Daimakkusu ) is a new game mechanic in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield . It can be used with the Dynamax Band item, and allows a Pokémon to grow in size. It lasts for 3 turns before going away and can only be used once per battle, similar to Z-Moves . There is also a different variant of Dynamax called Gigantamax and the exclusive Eternamax , which not only increases their size but their appearance as well, thus making both Gigantamax and Eternamax work in a manner similar to Mega Evolution , but unlike Mega Evolution, it doesn't have any Pokémon to change or gain a new type upon changing its size and appearance.
A Dynamax Band.
Upon being Dynamaxed, a Pokémon's attacks are Dynamaxed as well, turning them into Max moves . These moves are different depending on their type and effect in battle as well as becoming more powerful and gaining extra effects in battle such as lowering opponents stats or changing the Weather .
Dynamaxed Pokémon can also appear through Max Raid Battles . These Pokémon appear at Pokémon Dens and the player can battle them alongside three other Trainers.
A Gigantamax Alcremie .
Gigantamax ( キョダイマックス , Kyodaimax ? , lit. lit. Kyodaimakkusu ) is a feature appearing in Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield .
It is a variant of Dynamax ; while any Pokémon can Dynamax, only certain Pokémon can Gigantamax. In addition to changing the Pokémon's size, it changes its appearance as well. It works similarly to Mega Evolution , but unlike Mega Evolution, it doesn't have any Pokémon to change or gain a new type upon changing its size and appearance.
Pokémon capable of Gigantamaxing can typically be caught in Max Raid Battles , however, these encounters are usually low. Only a few dens in the Wild Area and the Isle of Armor feature battles with Gigantamax Pokémon, while most dens in the Crown Tundra can have Gigantamax Pokémon Max Raid Battles.
After completing the Champions' Cup for the first time, Leon will leave behind a Poké Ball in his house at Postwick containing a Charmander capable of Gigantamaxing.
Others, such as Meowth , are set to be distributed via events. Notably, Pikachu and Eevee capable of Gigantamax can be received if the player has save data of Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! , respectively. Pikachu, Meowth, and Eevee capable of Gigantamax cannot evolve .
If the player character has progressed far enough in the Isle of Armor storyline, three clusters of Max Mushrooms can be given to an NPC in the Master Dojo to create a Max Soup. Only Pokémon whose species have Gigantamax forms can drink it, allowing players to give their Pokémon the ability to Gigantamax without having to catch Pokémon capable of doing so themselves. This is enforced by the fact that Pokémon that can are not blacked out and those that can't (i.e. anything not in the list below) are blacked out. The only exception to this rule is Melmetal possibly due to its Gigantamax form not being distributed at the time.
Also like Dynamax, Gigantamax Pokémon also have their own Max Moves called G-Max moves . Each G-Max move is exclusive to a specific species of Gigantamax Pokémon. All of a Gigantamax Pokémon's moves of a certain type turn into G-Max moves, unlike Pokémon-specific Z-Moves, which can only be used if a Pokémon knows a specific move.
26 Pokémon that can Gigantamax were introduced in Sword and Shield.
Thanks to Max Soup, there are 6 of the 7 Pokémon that gain the ability to Gigantamax were revealed in Sword and Shield The Isle of Armor and The Crown Tundra.
Artwork of Ultra Beasts.
The Ultra Beasts ( ウルトラビースト , Urutora Biisuto ? ) are a group of Extradimensonal Pokémon introduced in Generation VII . They were revealed on September 6, 2016.
Ultra Beasts, sometimes referred to as UBs for short, are creatures native to a vastly different dimension to the world of the games—the Ultra Space —causing them to develop as very strange, and often very strong. While the Ultra Beasts normally remain within Ultra Space, they can, on occasion, enter the Pokémon world, due to the formation of an Ultra Wormhole . If the Wormhole closes, it leaves them unable to return to its original dimension unless it is reopened by a person.
In some cases, Ultra Beasts can open up Ultra Wormholes themselves, at will, to invade and attack humans and Pokémon (as very often seen in the manga). An Ultra Wormhole can also be opened up by humans (such as Lusamine ) via technology. This is the case in Pokemon Sun and Moon, and Pokemon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon , in which Lusamine intentionally caused Cosmog distress, resulting in it inadvertently opening an Ultra Wormhole. Solgaleo and Lunala can open up Ultra Wormholes as well (though not with intent to release an Ultra Beast).
An Ultra Beast can prove to be very dangerous toward anyone nearby, as sometimes the disorientation of an Ultra Beast can cause it to become aggressive and fatally violent toward people and Pokémon. However, the violence displayed by most UBs is not always senseless or caused merely by confusion (as shown in the games, anime, manga, and other sources), as most Ultra Beasts show intentionally malicious traits as well, acting as villainous invading species, similar to space aliens. Nihilego , the first UB discovered, is notorious for this.
All Poké Balls have difficulty recognizing Ultra Beasts as Pokémon due to their extradimensional origins (with the execption of the Master Ball ). This lead to the creation of the Beast Ball by the Aether Foundation scientist Faba , in order to control and contain the dangerous creatures. In Alola, they are generally feared and viewed as villainous creatures with intentions to cause harm, destruction, and death. However, as shown in the Sun and Moon: Ultra Adventures Anime , they are just doing what the Beasts would consider normal in their home world, like Xurkitree feasting on electricity, Guzzlord constantly eating, and Stakataka just staying still until angered. Some do retain their villainous persona, shown with Buzzwole draining the energy out of a Snorlax, Pheromosa stealing Z-Crystals and attacking those who put up a fight, or Blacephalon putting on a firework show for people so it can drain their vitality. And others have been known to be helpful in times of need, such as with Kartana who stopped a meteor from hitting the school by slicing it to miniscule pieces.
In the Alola region, rumors are flying about mysterious creatures known as Ultra Beasts. Ultra Beasts possess mighty powers that pose a fatal threat to humans and Pokémon, so they are gravely feared. It appears that the Aether Foundation is also conducting research on these Ultra Beasts.
A total of seven Ultra Beast species appear in Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon , each of them called by a code name in addition to a real name. In Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon four new Ultra Beasts were revealed.
UB-01 Symbiont ( Nihilego )
UB-01 Symbiont (Japanese: UB01 PARASITE ) is the first Ultra Beast shown. It was revealed on September 6, 2016.
UB-01's body is composed of a glass-like substance. However, it's constantly changing shapes, never settling on one.
While evidence of something similar to an alien survival instinct can be observed in UB-01, no one knows whether it has a will of its own or any emotions. It is said in its PokéDex entries, that for some reason, its movements resemble those of a young girl. Nihilego possesses a deadly neurotoxin that controls and possesses the host, making them stronger, though as commonly seen, more violent, reckless and oblivious of their vicious and malevolent actions. It is shown (in official art, the anime, manga, and games and as part of the plot, proving to be villainous in nature) to clamp onto its victims, and infuse neurotoxins into their brains, thus possessing them. This parasitic behavior is seemingly not often symbiotic, as this Ultra Beast is to use its intoxicated victim to attack and destroy those that could be a hindrance to Nihilego. It is also seen (in the manga) to be especially malevolent, dragging its victims back into an Ultra Wormhole willingly to consume them.
UB-01 Symbiont originates from a world called Ultra Deep Sea .
UB-02 has two known forms: UB-02 Absorption ( Buzzwole ) and UB-02 Beauty ( Pheromosa ). UB-02 (Japanese: UB02 ) is the second Ultra Beast shown. It was revealed on September 12, 2016, through the September issue of CoroCoro magazine.
UB-02 Absorption ( Buzzwole )
UB-02 Absorption (Japanese: UB02 EXPANSION ) was revealed on September 12, 2016, by some CoroCoro scans and officially two days later. It is exclusive to Pokémon Sun . At some point of the story, it battles Hala and Tapu Koko . In this way, it acts as an obvious malevolent villain, as Tapu Koko is a virtuous and heroic Pokémon dedicated to protecting Alola from danger.
The extent of its strength is unknown. Its entire body is covered with bulging, powerful muscles filled with red liquid that could possibly be the blood it has drained from its victims. The full force of a punch powered by its muscles would be off the charts as it is able to pulverize a dump truck with a single punch. Its distinctively long proboscis is said to be harder than diamonds, which it uses to violently and furiously stab and eliminate its victims. When absorbing a target's energy (possibly its blood), it causes its own muscles to grow exponentially fast. Its flexing is thought to be a way of communicating. Buzzwole appears to use its arms as its primary weapon, probably due to it being the most powerful part of its body.
UB-02 Absorption originates from a world called Ultra Jungle .
UB-02 Beauty ( Pheromosa )
UB-02 Beauty (Japanese: UB02 BEAUTY ) was revealed on September 12, 2016, by some CoroCoro scans and officially two days later. It is exclusive to Pokémon Moon . At some point of the story, it battles Hala and Tapu Koko .
Its narrow, graceful legs allow it to accelerate with such explosive speed that people claim it can dodge lightning. It is seductive, using this method to take advantage of its victims. It is said that any Pokémon or person that sees UB-02 Beauty, regardless of its own gender, will become infatuated with it and lose the will to battle or defend itself from it. The exact reason for this reaction—whether it's an unidentified pheromone exuded by UB-02 Beauty or a hypnotic effect induced by its appearance—has not been determined. In terms of attacking, it seems to use prefer legs most of the time, most likely due to its insane speeds topped with legs.
UB-02 Beauty originates from a world called Ultra Desert .
UB-03 Lighting ( Xurkitree )
UB-03 Lightning (Japanese: UB03 LIGHTING ) was revealed on November 14, 2016.
It raids power plants on Earth, intentionally stealing and energizing itself with the electricity. Astonishing electric shocks emanate from its entire body, according to witnesses. When it is low on energy, it will absorb electricity from the ground using its electric-plug-like tail appendage, and enter a temporary tree-like state. Xurkitree possesses an organ that can produce energy, allowing it to discharge up to around one million volts of electricity at once.
UB-03 Lightning originates from a world called Ultra Plant .
UB-04 Blade ( Kartana )
UB-04 Blade (Japanese: UB04 SLASH ) was revealed by some CoroCoro scans on November 11, 2016. It is exclusive to Pokémon Sun .
It was observed furiously cutting down a gigantic steel tower with one stroke of its blade, without any reason or provocation. Occasionally, it seems not to attack enemies or destroy objects on its own, but its sharp body is a dangerous weapon in itself. Every edge of its body is fatally sharp, making it able to cut almost everything to shreds, an opponent included. An attack from this UB would result in being cut fatally. It can easily avoid attacks by floating away. Due to it's ultra-thin paper-like body, it is highly susceptible to fire and moisture.
UB-04 Blade originates from a world called Ultra Forest .
UB-04 Blaster ( Celesteela )
UB-04 Blaster (Japanese: UB04 BLASTER ) was revealed by some CoroCoro scans on November 11, 2016. It is exclusive to Pokémon Moon .
Celesteela's most distinctive feature is its gas it stores within its arms. Witnesses have seen it act willingly destructive, burning down a forest by expelling its highly flammable gas from its two arms, for unknown reasons, without provocation. It was also observed it flying across the skies at high speed. It is stated that this fatally dangerous flammable gas could burn and melt anything. Being heavy and slow in nature, it seems calmer than most of its kin, though just as dangerous.
UB-04 Blaster originates from a world called Ultra Crater .
UB-05 Glutton ( Guzzlord )
UB-05 Glutton (Japanese: UB05 GLUTTONY ) was revealed by some CoroCoro scans on November 11, 2016, and officially four days later.
As its code-name accurately describes, this Ultra Beast has a horrifically voracious and gluttonous appetite. It is extremely destructive and violent, and it will completely devour anything in its path. It is said that it devours not only people, Pokémon, and objects, but the ground, rivers, and even the seas. In the anime, it is depicted as particularly violent, malevolent, and crazed with mad gluttony. Heroic Pokémon (such as Zeraora , in the anime) have defended and protected people and Pokémon from this seemingly villainous UB by fiercely fighting it and sending it back from where it entered through its Ultra Wormhole.
Despite the frightfully tremendous amounts of matter that this Ultra Beast consumes, it is said (in its Pokémon Sun and Moon Dex entries) that it does not produce any waste products. It seems that it converts everything it eats into raw energy to sustain itself, but the true details remain unknown.
UB-05 Glutton originates from a world called Ultra Ruin .
UB Burst ( Blacephalon )
"UB Burst" (Japanese: UB BURST ) was revealed on September 13, 2017. It is exclusive for Pokémon Ultra Sun.
Blacephalon intentionally tricks targets, quite villainously, into letting their guard down as it draws near with its peculiar and hypnotizing gait, swaying this way and that—then violently attacks them by blowing up its own head without warning, causing fatal injury. Before its targets can recover their senses, it steals their vitality (hence, their life force), which it selfishly feeds off of use as a source of energy for itself.
Its head is made up of a collection of curious sparks, and it appears to have the ability to freely remove its own head and make it explode .
UB Assembly ( Stakataka )
"UB Assembly" (Japanese: UB LAY ) was revealed on September 13, 2017. It is exclusive for Pokémon Ultra Moon.
While UB Assembly may appear to be made up of stones stacked atop one another, apparently each “stone” is in fact a separate life-form, and this UB is made up of an assemblage of these life-forms.
When confronting another, or when feeling particularly enraged, the eyes on each of these stones begin to glow red.
UB Adhesive ( Poipole )
"UB Adhesive" (Japanese: UB STICKY ) was revealed on October 5, 2017.
Poipole is significantly different than other Ultra Beasts, in that it is not seemingly villainous or malevolent. It displays many sentient emotions, and it is said to be able to understand human speech if it spends enough time together with a trainer. It is special, chosen as a chosen benevolent Starter in its dimension in space, and can evolve.
Its large head is filled with venom, and it fires this venom from the poisonous needles on top of it.
UB Adhesive originates from Ultra Megalopolis , where it is popular as a Starter Pokémon.
Poipole and its evolution Naganadel are vastly different than other Ultra Beasts, in that they evolve, they are not destructive or malicious, and bond with their trainers like normal Pokémon, at a highly intelligent and emotional level.
UB Stinger ( Naganadel )
"UB Stinger" (Japanese: UB Stinger ) is the evolution of UB Adhesive.
UB Stinger has stingers on its lower body and each shoulder. The powerful poison it fires from the largest stinger, on the end of its abdomen, can travel over a staggering six miles. Naganadel's abdomen, its large stomach, contains its brain, and hundreds of liters of poisonous liquid. This poisonous liquid is peculiar, being both highly adhesive and luminescent. The stingers that attach to its abdomen are directly connected to its brain. As a result, it has sensitive nerves, hates to have these stingers touched. As a natural response, it will react violently if they are touched.
UB Stinger's homeworld, similar to its pre-evolution, is Ultra Megalopolis.
Like its pre-evolution, Naganadel is unlike any other Ultra Beast. It is a highly intelligent and sensitive Pokémon bonds deeply with its trainer, can communicate telepathically with humans, and does not act maliciously and destructively. The way in which it is acquired is also different, as it is given to the trainer (as a Poipole) instead of coming out of Ultra Wormholes to menace Alola and its inhabitants. This may be the reason its pre-evolution is given as a Starter Pokémon in deep space where it comes from. It is more like a space alien Pokémon, rather than an interdimensional beast.
Gladion's Nihilego, Lillie.
Concept art of a Pokémon Gym for Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!
Gyms ( ジム , Gym ? ) are locations introduced in Generation I .
Gyms are buildings located throughout various regions in the World of Pokémon , most commonly within towns and cities . A Gym is run by its top member, a Gym Leader . Pokémon Gyms serve a couple of different purposes, one of which is to help in the training of a Pokémon Trainer 's Pokémon . These members strengthen their Pokémon inside the Gym with the help of the Gym Leader, and will challenge anyone looking to battle the Gym Leader.
The second purpose is to test the skills of traveling Trainers looking to enter into the regional League . In order to test their skills, a Gym Leader will engage in a Pokémon battle with the Trainer. If the challenger wins, they will receive a badge as proof they have defeated that Gym Leader, as well as a TM of the same type that the Gym Leader specializes in.
Gyms usually specialize in a certain type of Pokémon, meaning that all members carry a team of Pokémon with one common type. Additionally, most Gyms contain puzzles which a trainer must bypass in order to reach the Gym Leader. This is more a common factor in the core series than in the anime .
The emblem of a Gym Leader
A Gym Leader ( ジムリーダー , Jimu Riidaa ? ) is a type of Pokémon Trainer introduced in Generation I . They are the highest-ranking Trainer of a Pokémon Gym and their goal is to test Trainers and their Pokémon so that they are proficient enough to take the Pokémon League challenge. If a Trainer defeats a Gym Leader in a battle, then the Trainer earns that Gym's Badge . Due to their essential role in the Pokémon games as they must be defeated in order for the player to progress the story, they serve as the main bosses prior to facing the Elite Four and Pokémon Champion .
A Gym Leader is a skilled Trainer at a high enough rank to own a gym . They player character has to defeat each of them in a Pokémon battle , usually in a set linear order throughout different locations with gradually increasing levels and number of Pokémon in their teams - with the first being the lowest and the last the highest in difficulty (except for Generation IX due to open-world gameplay, though level scaling is not present), before they can obtain the Gym Badge, which are required to progress, increase the maximum level of a Pokémon 's obedience , and use HMs in the overworld. Ultimately, after defeating the eight Gym Leaders and obtaining their respective Gym Badges in a set region , the player can enter the Pokémon League . Although it is technically possible to immediately battle them, most Gym Leaders also have apprentice Trainers known as Gym Trainers , which are usually necessary to battle against, first.
Gym Leaders theme their gym and the Pokémon they use after a specific type , as is the case for their underling Pokémon Trainers in their Gym. The most recurring type used by the Gym Leader in the first Gym is Rock , which both the Grass and Water type of one of the first partner Pokémon is super effective against, each.
Dark is the last type to receive a Gym Leader specializing in the type, with the introduction of Piers and Marnie in Generation VIII , not counting the Island Kahuna Nanu .
Water is the most common type used by a Gym Leader, considering that the Hoenn and Unova regions each have two Water -type Gym Leaders. Electric is the most specialized type by Gym Leaders throughout the regions, since every region has one specializing in that type except for Johto and Galar .
Gym Leaders are essentially the weaker counterparts of the Elite Four , who also specialize in a certain type, but each of them are fought at the regional Pokémon League , before the Pokémon Champion . Unlike regular Pokémon Trainers, a Gym Leader has the right to directly challenge the Pokémon League Champion, making them able to bypass the League challenge themselves, as revealed by Brock in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! .
Although never an occurrence in the core series, in Pokémon Origins , it is revealed that Gym Leaders have different teams to take on challengers depending on how many Badges they currently have, for balance reasons based on that Trainer's skills, showcased when Red battled against Brock .
Gym Leaders are featured in a majority of regions , except Alola , which has Island Kahunas instead. Gym Leaders between other regions have been shown to know each other, like the Elite Four and Pokémon Champions across the Pokémon World .
The only regions with Gym Leaders for all three of the starter types are Kanto , Unova and Galar . Conversely, Johto is the only region with no Gym Leaders that specialize in any of the first partner Pokémon 's types.
All eight Gym Leaders of the Johto region are fought during the first part of Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version , Pokémon Crystal Version , and the remakes Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version before the Gym Leaders of the Kanto region.
In Galar , the Gym Leaders are fought in stadiums. A few of the Gym Leaders are not only different characters between Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield but also specialize in a different type and hand out a different Gym Badge altogether. Uniquely, after the player enters the Hall of Fame , Bede and Marnie are replaced as the fifth and seventh Gym Leaders instead, respectively.
The Gym Leaders of Paldea can be fought in any order, due to the open world nature of Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet ; this exists in a limited capacity in Kanto , Johto , and Sinnoh . Even with the flexibility of the order in which the Paldean Gym Leaders can be fought, the strength of their Pokémon is not relative to those in the player's party. The Paldean Gym Leaders go through periodical Gym Inspections every year, usually by a Champion to ensure that they are doing their job correctly. If the inspection is deemed a failure, the Gym Leader would lose their position. While the Gym Leaders in Paldea also specialize in a certain type, it is aligned with their specialty through the Terastal phenomenon .
Gym Leaders generally have professional conduct. However, two Gym Leaders of the Johto region, Whitney and Clair (third and eighth, respectively), are infamous for refusing to give out their Gym Badge at first upon losing. Despite this, they do recognize their flaws. The two in particular are also known as among the toughest to defeat.
Giovanni is the only leader of a villainous team to also be a Gym Leader.
A Gym Leader is usually well involved with their community, something that is more prevalent in Pokémon the Series and Pokémon Adventures than the games. If a Gym Leader is not at their Gym, they are usually involved in some type of work or service that the surrounding community is known for. If a Gym Leader cannot perform their duties, they hand control of the Gym over to either a trusted family member or subordinate.
Wallace and Iris , from the Hoenn and Unova regions, respectively, are two Gym Leaders who would later become Pokémon Champions in a subsequent game. Blue from Kanto , who became a Gym Leader in Johto-based games, was originally a Rival and Champion.
The Gym Leaders of the Kanto region are fought in the Generation I games, Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version and Pokémon Yellow Version: Special Pikachu Edition , as well as the pairs of remakes Pokémon FireRed Version and Pokémon LeafGreen Version and Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee! .
Most of the same Gym Leaders return in the Generation II games, Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version and Pokémon Crystal Version , as well as the remakes Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version . Each of them cannot be fought until the second part of the game, when the player is able to access the Kanto region.
In Pokémon Platinum Version , Fantina was changed to the third Gym Leader, putting Maylene and Crasher Wake up to fourth and fifth, respectively.
In Pokémon Black Version and Pokémon White Version , the first Gym Leader depends on the player 's first partner Pokémon , which it always has a type advantage over.
In Pokémon Black Version 2 and Pokémon White Version 2 , the order of the Gym Leaders is different. Drayden becomes the leader of the seventh Gym in both versions, and Cheren , Roxie , and Marlon are incorporated as new Gym Leaders.
All eight Kanto Gym Leaders and their badges appear in Pokémon Puzzle League , and likewise for Johto Gym Leaders and their badges in Pokémon Puzzle Challenge .
Before traveling with Ash for several seasons, Brock was the Gym Leader of Pewter City, succeeding after his father, Flint . Brock is the first-ever Gym Leader to appear in the anime. During his travels, Brock's mom , Lola , took over the Pewter City Gym and converted it into a Water -type Gym. Brock's younger brother Forrest is the current Gym Leader.
While Ash travels and meets the Gym Leaders from the games as normal, he also meets a trainer named A.J. , who runs his own unofficial Gym, which is on the route to Vermilion City , A.J.'s gym does not have a badge or a type.
While Lt. Surge is the current Gym Leader of Vermilion City , he left on a quest to train himself sometime prior to the events of the Pokémon Journeys: The Series , having Visquez serve as the Acting Gym Leader in his absence.
While Misty is the current Gym Leader of Cerulean City , her three sisters: Daisy , Violet , and Lily act as Gym Leaders until Misty takes the post.
While Giovanni begins as the Gym Leader of Viridian City , like in the games, he has to go on a business journey, leaving the Team Rocket trio to look after the gym on his behalf. Jessie is the only character who is shown to do the actual battling. Later on, Agatha , a member of the Elite Four, is put in charge of the Gym.
The Gym Leaders from the Orange Islands appear only in Pokémon the Series , not in the games, just like Orange Islands itself. The Gym Leaders work slightly differently than others, usually having Trainers that face them take part in a number of challenges instead of Pokémon battles . The Gym Leaders generally do not specialize in a specific type .
Clemont built a robotic version of himself called Clembot to run the Gym for him when he was too busy to attend his duties as a Gym Leader. After Clembot went "rogue" (due to an accident during programming), Clemont managed to regain control of Clembot after defeating it in a match. Clemont later reprogrammed Clembot to be friendlier and had it serve as the Acting Gym Leader while he went travelling across Kalos with his friends.
Excluding Ash's traveling companions, Gym Leaders have seldomly had a role in the films, other than Giovanni in Pokémon: The First Movie and Erika in Pokémon the Movie: I Choose You! .
The Gym Leaders of Kanto and Johto in " Yikes, It's Yanma! "
In Pokémon Adventures , besides their usual role, a Gym Leader is entrusted to protect their city from any danger. However, besides Giovanni , a few other Gym Leaders are shown to be involved in some type of crime, including Sabrina , Lt. Surge , and Koga .
Owing to their role of having to protect their location from danger, the Kanto Gym Leaders help in the fight against Team Rocket and the Kanto Elite Four . Later, they join the Johto Gym Leaders and the Pokédex Holders to fight the Masked Man , later revealed to be a Gym Leader himself, Pryce . In Hoenn , the Gym Leaders gather in Petalburg City to discuss the threat posed by Team Aqua and Team Magma before fighting them. The Sinnoh Gym Leaders confront Team Galactic directly at the Spear Pillar . All of the Unova Gym Leaders cooperate to defeat Team Plasma .
If a Pokémon Trainer is confident enough to put their talents and Pokémon to the test, they can face the Gym Leader. However, Gym Leaders can decide to either accept or reject a battle , and some them can decide to challenge only strong trainers, as first seen in " Onix Is On! ". The procedure is done through a battle, where the candidate has to usually defeat a team of six Pokémon.
A trainer receives a Gym Badge from defeating a Gym Leader, as usual, but leaders have been shown to give Gym Badges for other reasons, such as Blaine giving Red the Volcano Badge for helping him fight Team Rocket. Up until the ninth Pokémon League competitions, Gym Badges only served to say in advance which trainers had a good chance of winning. For the tenth competition, the president of the Pokémon Association decided that trainers who had all eight Gym Badges in their region could now skip the preliminary battles and go straight to the final round.
Before someone can become a Gym Leader, a proposed trainer must pass a test, like with Red in " Forretress of Solitude ", testing not only his skills in battle but also his knowledge and personality. One can have the possibility of being appointed Gym Leader without a test, as is the case with Blue , who convinces the president of the Pokémon Association of his abilities and is already respected by the residents of Viridian City . Newer Gym Leaders are usually watched and evaluated by older and more experienced Gym Leaders.
The Pokémon Association can fire a Gym Leader if they do not fulfill their duties and stay away from their Gym for a long time, as is the case with Koga and Giovanni, but Sabrina and Lt. Surge have not been fired despite their associations with Team Rocket.
A Gym Leader earns his money by receiving a transfer from the Pokémon Association to cover the costs of maintaining the gym. However, Gym Leaders can still take on other jobs or keep their old jobs, which is why most of them have have a second job.
In the Crystal Chapter , beginning in " Yikes, It's Yanma! ", the Pokémon League hosts a special event where the Kanto Gym Leaders face those of the Johto region. Pryce is the captain of the Johto leaders' team, while Erika is the captain of the Kanto leaders' team.
In the Ruby & Sapphire Chapter , Norman tried to become a Gym Leader through an exam, but was disqualified from the exam after an incident where a Salamence freed a Rayquaza being researched by the Pokémon Association.
Gym Leaders do appear in Pokémon Pocket Monsters and its sequels. However, only three of them are explicitly associated with the role— Brock , Misty , and Giovanni —while the others are just stronger trainers.
The Gym Leaders of the Johto region appear in Pokémon Gold & Silver: The Golden Boys .
Artwork of the Kanto Elite Four in Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Pokémon: Let's Go, Eevee!
The Elite Four ( 四天王 , Shitennō ? ) is a high-level Trainer Class and title given to four certain Pokémon Trainers that qualify as being the best Trainers in their respective regions , stronger than Gym Leaders and with only the Pokémon Champion above their skill level, therefore serving as the penultimate bosses of the games. There are currently 9 sets of Elite Four members and 1 Champion (3 in Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet ), corresponding to the number of Generations that the main series games have been throughout the franchise (although Kanto and Johto share their respective Elite Four location, the Indigo Plateau , which, technically, is in the Kanto region).
In order to challenge the Elite Four, a Trainer must first acquire a total of 8 Gym Badges (16 in Pokémon Gold Version and Pokémon Silver Version and Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version , but can be fought at 8) upon defeating the Gym Leaders in a specific region. Upon battling these elite Trainers, the challenger must face all of them consecutively. Within the Pokémon League , they cannot access the Pokémon Center or Poké Mart without leaving the area until they successfully complete the challenge or losing at any point, making the battles against the Elite Four and soon after Champion an endurance match. In Generations I - IV , the members of the Elite Four are battled in a set order (including the remakes like Pokémon Omega Ruby and Pokémon Alpha Sapphire in Generation VI , Pokémon Brilliant Diamond and Pokémon Shining Pearl in Generation VIII ) with gradually increasing levels per member. Since Generation V , they can be fought in any order, having a fixed level in their teams. They also employ strong healing items such as Full Heal or Max Potions ( Full Restores in rematches). Once all four are defeated, the Trainer can now battle the regional Pokémon Champion for their title. However, in every region, if the player character is defeated at any point, including by the Champion, then they must re-battle all members of the Elite Four. In Generation IX , members of Paldea Elite Four are battled in set order, however members of BB League Elite Four can be fought in any order.
Apart from the official Elite Four, the Blueberry Academy also has their own unofficial version of the Elite Four in the form of the BB League. Rather than needing Gym Badges, a Trainer needs to complete a pre-trial in a manner similar to some Gym Leaders' before they can challenge them.
In Galar, there are no Elite Four. Because of this, the Pokémon League (Galar) only has the Champion Cup, where the player character only battles the rivals, three of the eight Gym leaders, in the Semi-Finals and Finals receptively and battle the Champion in championship match.
In the Pokémon anime, Ash and his friends infrequently meet Elite Four members, who then impart them with battle strategies.
In Kanto , Ash has met the entire original Elite Four roster:
In Hoenn , Ash has met only one Elite Four member:
In Sinnoh , Ash has also met the entire Elite Four roster:
In Unova , Ash has also met only one Elite Four member:
In Kalos , Ash has met Malva, Wikstrom and Drasna. Another member made an appearance but had not met with Ash:
In Alola, Ash has met the entire Elite Four rosters from both Pokémon Sun and Pokémon Moon and Pokémon Ultra Sun and Pokémon Ultra Moon paired versions, though none of them presented themselves as such, because the Alola League was not established until " The Dealer of Destruction! ":
It has been stated by Lucian in An Elite Meet and Greet! that when a Trainer wins their respective region's League Conference , they can participate in the Champion League, fighting the members of that region's Elite Four, and then the Champion as well. It has also been shown that an Elite Four member, like Gym Leaders, are allowed to directly challenge the Pokémon Champion and obtain the title from them in battle.
In Paldea, Liko , Roy , and Dot have met the entire Elite Four roasters from Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet , until they appear in " Welcome to Naranja Academy! ":
At the Blueberry Academy , Liko, Roy, Dot and Ult have met the entire Entire Four roasters from Pokémon Scarlet and Pokémon Violet : The Hidden Treasure of Area Zero ( The Indigo Disk ), until they appear in " Welcome to Blueberry Academy! ":
The Nuzlocke Challenge is an increased difficulty run of any Pokémon game. Originating from comics posted on 4chan's /v/ board by Nuzlocke (also known as Ruby), since its inception it has become a popular trend and has been attempted by thousands of other players.
The challenge (original known as Pokémon Ruby: Hard-Mode) was started in the winter of 2010 by Ruby/Nuzlocke who created a new save file on an old copy of Pokémon Ruby to pass the time. As he played the game, he realized that they had become boring and repetitive; so he created two rules that he would follow to make the game harder:
Instead of just increasing the difficulty, the rules caused him to care for his Pokémon more than before. It allowed him to appreciate new Pokémon he might have never used and it made him care for his team.
Wanting to share his experience with others, he drew some comics of his adventure and posted them on the 4chan /v/ board, where they were met with surprising approval, especially towards the Nuzleaf that used the face of John Locke from Lost; giving the challenge its name, the Nuzlocke Challenge (a combination of Nuzleaf and Locke).
After the success of Pokémon Ruby: Hard-Mode, countless other people attempted their own Nuzlocke challenge, some posting it in comic form or on video form and it has become a popular challenge in the Pokémon community.
The Nuzlocke Challenge started off with two basic rules: the player character may only catch the first Pokémon on each route, and if a Pokémon faints, it is dead and it has to be released or stored it in the PC.
Additional rules have been added by fans once the challenge picked up a following, this is a list of some of those "un-official" rules:
As of the new games release, new rules for nuzlocke will be put in place to support the new game style.
