Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once honored defenders of Shurima against the Void, Aatrox and his brethren would eventually become an even greater threat to Runeterra , and were defeated only by cunning mortal sorcery. But after centuries of imprisonment, Aatrox was the first to find freedom once more, corrupting and transforming those foolish enough to try and wield the magical weapon that contained his essence. Now with stolen flesh, he walks Runeterra in a brutal approximation of his previous form, seeking an apocalyptic and long overdue vengeance.
As a mortal, Aatrox was born and raised in Shurima at the height of its power. He eventually became a champion of the empire, being honored for his service as a strong warrior. During this time, he had served it for all his life. He was a noble warrior and would not hesitate to fight alongside his fellow soldiers in battle.
Aatrox was one of the first to be granted the gift of Ascension in the ancient times of Shurima, a rite that was reserved for those near the end of their life. [ 1 ] Once he was Ascended, Aatrox was granted a heightened role within the military as a member of the Ascended Host. As one of the most powerful of the Ascended, Aatrox fought and even killed Spirit Gods and other powerful beings. [ 2 ]
When Icathia rebelled against the emperor , the Ascended hero Setaka requested that Aatrox aid her in fighting them back alongside the rest of the Ascended Host. Answering the call with no hesitation, he helped drive back the Void when the Icathians tried weaponizing it, an event that deeply scarred his mind and lead to the loss of his wings.
Aatrox standing among his fellow Darkin, Varus and Rhaast
After the Shuriman Empire fell due to the sudden death of emperor Azir , the Ascended renamed themselves Sunborn and clashed with each other due to the lack of leadership and purpose. Their battle brought so much devastation that the mortals eventually began to call these Sunborn Darkin , an old Shuriman word which most closely translated to 'The Fallen.'
During the war, Aatrox was an honored general who commanded several other Darkin to his side in an attempt to unify them again. It's implied that Aatrox was one of five notably powerful Darkin that fought side by side during the war and sought to bring ruin to the entire world once reunited. These Darkin include Aatrox himself, Rhaast , Varus , Naafiri and an unknown fifth Darkin. [ 3 ]
Ryze witnessing a vision of the Darkin War, seeing the moment where Aatrox and Xolaani began their violent conflict.
Aatrox had a particular rivalry with Xolaani , who utilized her talents in blood magic to puppeteer the bodies of the other Darkin to her will in an attempt to end the war. [ 4 ] Horiffied by this, Aatrox named Xolaani a coward for her methods and honed a deep, violent hatred for her. [ 5 ]
Fearing for the fate of Runeterra, the Celestial beings of Targon intervened as the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , also known as Pantheon , rallied mortals to fight back against the Darkin while Myisha the Aspect of Twilight taught mortals how to imprison the Darkin within their own weapons. Aatrox was ready to fight against Pantheon and his army, but he realized too late that he had been deceived. A force greater than a thousand dead suns pulled him into the sword, making him one of the first Darkin to be imprisoned. Trapped within his sword in a torturous existence, Aatrox continued to reach out from his prison in hopeless agony.
Eventually, an unknown mortal man fled a battle and, out of desperation to defend himself, tried to wield Aatrox's sword. Using hemomancy, Aatrox quickly took over this human's body and reformed it as close to his original Ascended form as possible. Fearing that this body was too weak to withstand his Darkin essence, Aatrox looked toward a city caught in the middle of a chaotic battle and planned to slaughter as many mortals as possible and repurpose their corpses to strengthen his new form. [ 6 ]
Aatrox possessed many men and women over the years, learning how to take over a body instantly and feast on his enemies' flesh. Aatrox travelled the world in search of a way to return to his Ascended form but realized that there was no escape from his prison and despaired. With that, Aatrox grew desperate and decided that since he cannot truly free himself from the blade, he would instead end all of existence including himself in a terrible cataclysm. Marching with a new purpose, Aatrox brought war and death wherever he went, hoping to create a battle apocalyptic enough to bring oblivion to everything.
At some point, Aatrox gathered and lead a massive army of raiders and lead them to the growing refugee settlement of Demacia . Attacking from the sky, Aatrox faced off against Demacia's winged protectors; the twins Kayle and Morgana . As the twins fought him in the sky, Aatrox managed to defeat them and marched alongside his army towards Demacia's gates. As a last resort, Morgana tapped into dark magics and summoned magical chains from the ground to restrain Aatrox. While restrained, Kayle fired a blast of holy flames at Aatrox, seemingly defeating him and his army. [ 7 ]
On his quest to achieve oblivion and enact vengeance against the Aspects that trapped him, Aatrox travelled to Mount Targon and terrorized armies of barbarians on his way there, driving them into Targonian lands. Seeking to reach the mountain's summit, Aatrox faced off against Pantheon and confronted him in a battle in the skies. Aatrox achieved what was thought impossible and stabbed his sword through Pantheon's chest, wounding him so deeply that he carved the constellation of War out of the cosmos, essentially killing the Aspect. Only the Aspect's host Atreus remained, spitting in Aatrox's face as he sneered and left him to die to his wounds.
Eventually, a fully recovered Atreus returned and stood between Aatrox and an army of barbarians, wielding the now fallen Aspect's dulled spear and shield. Aatrox mocked Atreus for being foolish enough to face him without the powers of Pantheon and fought him, casting Atreus down to his knees. Before striking the killing blow, Atreus managed to awaken the residual celestial power within himself and reignited the powers of Pantheon, leaping into the air and severing Aatrox's sword arm and defeating him. [ 8 ]
Aatrox eventually gained a new host and began a rampage in the northern parts of Valoran , such as the Freljord . [ 9 ] One night, Aatrox flew across a snowstorm and appeared before Tryndamere's clan, who mistook the Darkin for their horned god the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . As some of the tribespeople began to kneel and pray, Aatrox immediately began to slaughter them as Tryndamere looked on in horror before raising his blade and attempting to strike. Aatrox swatted the barbarian aside and nearly beat him to death, speaking archaic words and laughing maniacally as he succumbed to his wounds. [ 10 ]
Aatrox in an apocalyptic battle against Xolaani , with Kayle attempting to intervene.
After Xolaani achieved a new Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). in Ionia , Aatrox sensed her reawakening from continents away. [ 11 ] Aatrox's hatred for Xolaani burned so deeply that he planned to wage a final war against her to bring him oblivion, rallying the rest of the Darkin to join him in Icathia and battle Xolaani. [ 12 ]
In Icathia, he faced off against an empowered Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and battled her alongside the other Darkin. However, some of them fell victim to her hemomancy and fought Aatrox against their will. [ 13 ] Mihira , the Aspect of Justice, sensed the cataclysmic battle between the two and descended down to Runeterra with her daughter Kayle to intervene. Kayle and Aatrox fought one another while Xolaani somehow managed to use hemomancy to bend even Mihira to her will, seemingly fusing with the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Though the outcome is unclear, its implied that Ryze , who accompanied Kayle on her mission to intervene, decided to utilize a World Rune to completely neutralize the catastrophe. [ 14 ]
Aatrox's consciousness is imprisoned within his sword; a large red blade with sharp spikes and black organic platting that mimics steel. In the center of the blade close to the handle is Aatrox's beating heart, which constantly pulsates with his life force.
In his physical form, Aatrox is incredibly large, standing taller than most mortals and capable of increasing his size by repurposing the bodies of his fallen enemies. His skin is a deep red that gets brighter around his chest and he has organic armor covering various parts of his body including his right arm, back, legs, and head. The armor shell on his head forms a helmet with two horns and on his back are two large wings with fleshy membranes that he often grows to raise himself from the ground and intimidate people.
It is unknown what Aatrox looked like in his Ascended form, however it is known that he looked similar to his current form with giant golden wings and shimmering armor.
As an Ascended , Aatrox was known as an incredibly noble warrior who was loyal to the Shuriman Empire as he didn't hesitate to aid his fellow Ascended during the Icathian Uprising . After facing the horrors of the Void , Aatrox's mind was horribly scarred and he was forever changed by what he faced during the war, seemingly losing his noble nature.
During the Great Darkin War , Aatrox grew violent and mad from the lack of leadership and purpose. He began disregarded mortal life completely, either seeing them as beneath him or simply as soldiers for his armies. Though he was a ruthless and vicious warrior, he still held a sense of comradery with his fellow Darkin, being an honored general among them. Aatrox had an intense sense of hatred for his enemies, especially those he considers cowards or traitors.
After years trapped in a torturous existence within his sword, Aatrox now speaks vicious rage and constant vindication against life itself, loathing his existence and how far he has fallen from glory. [ 15 ] Aatrox has grown so desperate to end his suffering that he is more than wiling to commit all kinds of atrocities to achieve a proper end, uncaring of who he kills or destroys in the process. Aatrox has a passion for warfare and battle, constantly taunting enemies and going on tangents about the oblivion he wishes to achieve. Despite this, Aatrox can also speak poetically, especially when reminiscing on his current form and the pain of his existence.
Aatrox regards most of his fellow Darkin as his brothers and sisters at arms, being honored among them when he acted as their general during the war . Though he participated in the war and most likely has slain some Darkin in the past, he deeply respects those that remained loyal to him prior to being imprisoned, regarding some of them as old friends and sympathizing with their imprisonment, promising them freedom by joining him on his quest for oblivion. Most recently, Aatrox has rallied most of his Darkin allies to gather in Icathia for a final battle against Xolaani . [ 12 ]
The Darkin that Aatrox rallied includes his honored captain Joraal , one of his soldiers named Taarosh , his old friends Praa , Baalkux , Anaakca , Horazi , Naganeka and Styraatu .
Aside from them, Aatrox is implied to be one of five Darkin said to bring ruin to the whole world once they reunite, further implying that they all fought side by side during the war. Though not united, these Darkin are Aatrox himself, Rhaast , Varus , Naafiri and an unknown fifth Darkin. [ 3 ]
Rhaast is regarded as Aatrox's brother, being one of the five Darkin said to have fought alongside Aatrox during the war and destined to reunite and bring ruin to the world. Aatrox does not give Rhaast much respect, as he has yet to fully possesses his current host Shieda Kayn and even criticizes his weapon of choice.
Varus considers Aatrox his brother and is one of the five Darkin said to have fought alongside him during the war, destined to reunite and bring ruin to the world. Though the two share a desire the bring oblivion to the world, Aatrox considers Varus weak and unbecoming of a Darkin, claiming that he has become too human and succumbing to his mortal emotions, such as his need for revenge.
It's implied there was some 'memo' given to Varus by Aatrox which explained that Varus had to use two A's in his name, officially naming him "Vaarus." However, Varus thought the memo was absurd and refused to comply, angering and offending Aatrox.
Naafiri is one of the five Darkin said to have fought alongside Aatrox during the war, destined to reunite and bring ruin to the world. Because of her eager quest to reunite the rest of the Darkin together, she urges Aatrox to 'focus his rage' and join her in her reunion. Along with that, she actually considers Aatrox stubborn, likely referring to his headstrong mission to bring oblivion to the world.
Aatrox and Xolaani faced off against each other during the Great Darkin War , as Aatrox disagreed with her methods in utilizing her hemomancy talents to manipulate and control all things, including her fellow Darkin. [ 4 ] He saw this as a horrifying and cowardly tactic, considering Xolaani a coward and honing a deep hatred for her. In his rage against Xolaani, Aatrox spent years destroying her statues and removing all influence she had.
Aatrox's hatred for Xolaani ran so deep that he was capable of sensing her reawakening from continents away, rallying the rest of the Darkin to gather in Icathia and face her in a cataclysmic final battle. [ 11 ] When fighting in Icathia, Xolaani managed to use her abilities on some of his Darkin allies, forcing them to fight him against their will. Though the conclusion of the battle isn't clear, it's most likely that Ryze used a World Rune to neutralize the catastrophe and prevent total oblivion.
Aatrox has a deep hatred towards Targon and the Aspects, as they were the ones who ultimately betrayed and imprisoned the Darkin, with Aatrox being the first. At one point, Aatrox sought to enact revenge against the Aspects themselves and possibly achieve oblivion by reaching the summit of Mount Targon , but was ultimately stopped by the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
When the Aspects first began to intervene in the Darkin War, the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was sent out to rally armies to fight back against them. Seeing this, Aatrox fought back with an army of his own, clashing in brutal warfare against the Aspect and his mortal armies. In the end, Aatrox was ultimately deceived by the Aspect of Twilight and imprisoned within his sword. Due to this, Aatrox considers Pantheon's battle against him as treachery, calling him a fiend and a betrayer for what he did.
Many years later, Aatrox sought to reach the peak of Mount Targon and met Pantheon in battle, fighting him in the skies before driving his blade so deeply through him that he carved the constallation of War out of the cosmos, effectively killing the Aspect. When all that remained was the mortal host Atreus , Aatrox sneered and left him to die to his wounds. Soon after, Atreus recovered and fought Aatrox a second time, managing to reignite the constellation of War with his own mortal will and gaining the residual powers of the Aspect. Pantheon severed Aatrox's sword arm and ultimately defeated the Darkin.
The two of them continue holding antagonism and animosity for one another long after their battle and wish to destroy one another once and for all one day, with Aatrox wishing to achieve true oblivion and Pantheon seeking to fight against all gods meddling with mortal affairs, including the Darkin. [ 8 ]
The Aspect of Twilight is the one responsible for teaching the mortals how to imprison the Darkin within their weapons, starting with Aatrox being the first. The Aspect's host at the time, a girl named Myisha, was the one who orchestrated the process in the first place and was deeply hated by the rest of the Darkin for what she did.
Though Zoe herself was not responsible for imprisoning the Darkin, Aatrox still holds a disdain for the Aspect no matter who is the current host. Out of all the Aspects, Aatrox wants to kill and torture the Aspect of Twilight the most for what she did, claiming that killing her a thousand times still wouldn't be enough to express his anger towards her.
Aatrox fought against Kayle alongside her sister Morgana when he attempted to raid an early Demacia . He lead a massive army of raiders and defeated the twins in combat before getting restrained by Morgana's ability to summon magical chains. During this, Kayle managed to defeat Aatrox with a wave of holy flames.
The two would face each other again during his battle with Xolaani in Icathia, where Kayle and her mother Mihira descend down to Runeterra to intervene in their conflict. While Aatrox and Kayle fought, Mihira was consumed by Xolaani's hemomancy before the entire battle was ultimately neutralized by Ryze.
Aatrox taunts Kayle's celestial heritage, claiming that she is unfit for her ascension to godhood.
Aatrox fought against Morgana alongside her sister Kayle when he attempted to raid an early Demacia. He lead a massive army of raiders and nearly defeated the twins in combat before Morgana tapped into dark magics to restrain Aatrox with magical chains. Aatrox was restrained long enough for Kayle to fire a wave of holy flames at him, defeating him at Demacia's gates.
Aatrox sees Morgana's willingness to embrace her mortality as disgusting, questioning why she would be so eager to bind herself to the mortal realm and threatening to kill her the same way he kills all mortal beings.
Aatrox faced Mihira when she intervened in his battle with Xolaani. Though he sees Mihira as a worthy opponent, he mostly fought her daughter Kayle before Xolaani's hemomancy completely consumed Mihira.
Ryze accompanied Kayle when she and her mother travelled to Icathia to intervene in Aatrox's final war against Xolaani. After meditating on the major events of Runeterra's history, Ryze ultimately decided to use a World Rune to neutralize the cataclysm, narrowly avoiding oblivion.
Aatrox was responsible for decimating most of Tryndamere's tribe after they mistook him as Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . Though Tryndamere tried to attack Aatrox for slaughtering his clan, Aatrox swatted him away and beat him nearly to death, speaking archaic words and laughing as he slowly bled to death before miraculously waking up, fully revived by a mysterious power activated by his rage. Tryndamere is deeply scarred by visions of Aatrox laughing maniacally as he slaughtered his people, deeply hating him for what he did.
It's heavily implied that Aatrox intends to make Tryndamere his next host body, possibly even being the one who granted him his mysterious abilities after he nearly beat him to death. [ 10 ]
The Darkin Blade
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Aatrox
Mentioned: Pantheon , Zoe
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
World Ender
Death and dust choke the air as a shadow takes shape. It is more ancient and evil than war. And it is growing.
The Barbarian King
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Tryndamere
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ashe
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
The Unbreakable Spear
By David Slagle
Starring: Pantheon
Mentioned: Aatrox , Iula , Leona
Short Story • 25 Minute Read
Twilight of the Gods
By Graham McNeill
They came to a dead city in the mountain's shadow under cover of night.
Starring: Naganeka , Zoe
Mentioned: Aatrox , Azir , Nasus , Rhaast , Varus
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
A Spark in the Dark
When all hope seems lost, sometimes all you need is a little spark to ignite that Dragonfire…
Starring: Aatrox , Zeri
Short Story
An ancient mystery in Runeterra
By Explorer Ezreal
Starring: Aatrox , Ezreal
Mentioned: Jayce , Lux , Twisted Fate
Fight for Final City
When Anima Squad stands together, the Primordians don’t stand a chance.
Starring: Aatrox , Briar , Illaoi , Seraphine , Yasuo
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Lunar Extravaganza (Wild Rift)
The Lunar New Year is here, and it's time to celebrate! Help prepare for the festivities and join in by lighting lanterns and sending (and receiving!) red envelopes in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Extravaganza!
Starring: Aatrox , Graves , Thresh , Zeri , Zyra
Never Surrender
Inspired by the triumphant return of Gordon Hayward, Tryndamere main and superstar NBA small forward. It's On.
Starring: Aatrox , Tryndamere
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Trial of the Masks
By Jared Rosen
Imagine the world as a mirror
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Aatrox , Pyke
"Some fight for honor, some fight for glory. It matters only that you fight." - Aatrox
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Innately connected to the magic of the spirit realm, Ahri is a mysterious fox-like vastaya in search of her place in the world. Having become a somewhat reluctant and empathetic predator since entering mortal society, she prefers to manipulate her prey's emotions before partaking of their life essence —receiving flashes of memory and insight from each soul she consumes.
Ahri's earliest memories are of her growing up among a pack of icefoxes in northern Shon-Xan . Though her true origins are unknown even to her, she was accepted by the pack and considered one of them. Though she was a vastaya , she had no knowledge of her tribe except for a pair of sunstones she carried her entire life.
Living in the wild among the icefoxes, Ahri began to feel her vastayan abilities surface as she found she was capable of channeling the Spirit Realm within herself, gaining the ability to enhance her in reflexes and control the emotions of her prey.
A drawing of Ahri when she was found bathing by the Piltovan explorer Eduard Santangelo. [ 1 ]
Ahri often watched humans from afar for years until she found one wounded by a stray arrow. Ahri found she could feel his life force seeping away and followed her predatorial instincts, absorbing his spiritual essence and feasting on his memories, emotions and knowledge on human language. As she grew closer to the fringes of Ionian society, Ahri became addicted to feeding off of the spiritual essence of mortals, becoming drunk on their emotions and stolen memories. Eventually Ahri saw memories depicting how humans perceived her; a terrifying monster. Distressed by this, Ahri tried to stop from feeding on mortal essence but realized her powers slowly faded if she did, deciding to fully embrace her nature as a monster.
One day, Ahri met an artist who, instead of running away from her in fear, actually offered his own essence in exchange for her love. For the first time, Ahri felt genuine happiness without having to feed on spiritual essence and the two fell in love. Though Ahri pleaded that she was too monstrous for him, the artist explained that he loved her wholly despite her monstrous nature. The two would often sit by a lake at the edge of Ionia, as Ahri blissfully watched her lover paint pictures of flowers. Unfortunately, Ahri lost control of her ravenous instincts one day and completely drained her lover, killing him. Ahri despaired over this and mourned the loss of the first and only person she truly loved, retreating further even from society.
Ahri at the Garden of Forgetting attempting to use a snow lily flower to remove her traumatic memories of her dead lover.
Grief stricken over the loss of her lover, Ahri retreated from society and travelled to the Garden of Forgetting . Here, she wished to erase all the troubled memories she stole during her time as a predator, especially those of her dead lover.
Here she met a mysterious old woman tending to the garden. Ahri recognized this woman as the garden's caretaker, known by names such as the Eater of Secrets, the Forgotten or the Witch Gardener. Ahri referred to her as Ighilya, the Ionian word for "great grandmother," and begged her to show her how to forget the painful memories of her lover. The Gardener warned her that forgetting these memories was a worse fate, but reluctantly agreed to help Ahri, handing her a budding snow lily and instructing her to breath into the flower and think of the memory she wanted to get rid of. The flower, while trying to consume the memory, caused Ahri to relive the death of her lover through painful visions, making Ahri realize that she didn't want to lose these memories of her beloved as removing them was far worse than living with the pain.
Attempting to pull away, Ahri felt suffocated by the unnatural perfumes of the snow lily and saw hallucinogenic visions appear as a result of it. After hallucinating in the garden, she regained her senses as the Gardener stood above her, asking her if she managed to keep the memory before the flower took hold. Ahri explained that she did, despite it seeming cloudy, as the Gardener quietly urged Ahri to leave the garden before it takes her, as it did with many others who visited it before. As dark vines and snow lilies began to overgrow and cover the exits out of the garden, Ahri managed to escape with her vastayan reflexes and decided that she would from now on live from her past pains and experiences rather than regret and attempt to forget them. [ 2 ]
Wishing to find a solution to control her abilities and her predatory instincts, Ahri became consumed with learning more about her origins and her mysterious vastayan tribe. Her travels through Ionia eventually lead her to Omikayalan , the once sacred grove of the God-Willow; a legendary and magical tree that had been cut down thousands of years ago.
Ahri at the grove of Omikayalan , unknowingly being followed by the vastayan lord Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value).
There she met several spiritual creatures that protected Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , including vastayan lords such as Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and a mighty fox spirit named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . Here, Ahri learned to embrace her wild vastayan nature, continuing her search for her lost tribe and leaving the sacred grove.
On her search for her lost tribe, Ahri travelled to an Ionian market, taking in the new environment. A fortune teller named Hirin approached Ahri and recognized her twin sunstones as the work of a talented artisan named Ymelo. Curious, as these sunstones were her only link to her lost tribe, Ahri asked the fortune teller more details about Ymelo as the two conversed in her caravan. Offering Ahri tea, Hirin proceeded to tell Ahri what she knew about Ymelo, explaining how he was a master sculptor known for collecting fossilized lizard eggs and carving them into intricate shapes. Ahri's sunstones were a very particular beauty to Hirin, as she explained that his stones were typically built to be small pieces fitting into a larger sculpture.
As the conversation went on, Hirin pulled out a hunting knife and revealed that she slipped a paralysis potion into Ahri's tea, leaving Ahri unable to move or pounce as her limbs completely froze. Hirin sought to cut off one of Ahri's tails, as they are a useful ingredient for her potions and seen as extremely valuable.
Despite being paralyzed, Ahri managed to use her soul-devouring abilities to steal essence from Hirin and make herself strong enough to move again. Enraged, Ahri began to devour Hirin's essence, seeing flashes of her memories and witnessing the hardships she faced in life. Empathizing with the fortune teller, Ahri decided to spare her life, devouring the memories of their encounter and leaving Hirin to forget what just happened. Ahri then left the market with a new lead to follow on her quest; the craftsman Ymelo. [ 3 ]
At some point, Ahri found more clues about Ymelo that required her to travel to the pirate city Bilgewater . In order to do so however, Ahri realized that she needed a bodyguard to escort her overseas. Travelling to Weh'le during a Spirit Blossom festival, Ahri found her self at a local teahouse in search of anybody willing to act as her protector in Bilgewater.
Overhearing a conversation about Noxian warriors living in the village, Ahri became curious and asked where she can find a mighty warrior like these Noxians to serve as her guard. Paskoma, the teahouse's owner, immediately denied Ahri and refused to allow anybody dangerous to stay in her house, insisting that Ahri leave if she intends to bring in a warrior. Ahri didn't want to stay at a different teahouse and agreed to respect Paskoma's wishes before disappearing into her room.
During the first night of the Spirit Blossom festival, a massive feast was hosted at the teahouse as even Ahri decided to join in on the festivities. During the dinner, Ahri talked with Paskoma's granddaughter Satokka, who mistook Ahri's fox-like appearance as a costume of the Gatekeeper ; a mythological Ionian spirit known for guiding the dead souls during the festival. The two got in a heated discussion over Ionian culture and mythology, most notably about a spirit named the Taker . As Paskoma's spouse Ituren began to serve desert to the teahouse guests, Ahri used her mind altering abilities to convince him to let warriors in the teahouse. [ 4 ]
At some point, Ahri met Yasuo ; a lone swordsman in search of a purpose outside of Ionia. They both wanted to find things outside of their homeland, so Ahri managed to persuade Yasuo into accompanying her to Bilgewater, officially hiring him as her bodyguard. Though the two set sail and traveled together, Ahri kept her vastayan nature and identity a secret from Yasuo. [ 5 ]
As the two finally arrived in the pirate city, Ahri traveled to a black market and spoke to one of their vendors. Asking about her tribe, now knowing them as the Vesani , Ahri learned that a Vesani sunstone was recently purchased by a member of the Jagged Hooks named Malik, who was headed towards Grey Harbor. Overtime though, Yasuo grew more frustrated as Ahri refused to explain her mission and reveal her true nature to him. Deciding to search for the pirate tomorrow, the two stayed the night at a local tavern where Yasuo finally deduced Ahri's true nature as a vastaya as she revealed her mission to him. That night, after having a nightmare of her former lover, Ahri feared the same thing would happen to Yasuo and left for Grey Harbor alone, managing to track down and interrogate one of the Jagged Hooks. Here, she discovered that the pirate king Gangplank actually took the sunstone and set off for the Shadow Isles .
In pursuit of the sunstone, Ahri traveled to the Shadow Isles by herself, leaving her cloak behind in the forst. Here, she encountered and befriended the nature spirit Maokai , who explained his origins as a spirit that once helped the Blessed Isles flourish with life before the Ruination of Helia . Searching for Gangplank, Maokai revealed that he actually allied himself with the wicked wraith Thresh , using his artifacts to stir the mist and causing it to form impenetrable walls and weaken Maokai by infecting his roots within the Vesani vaults below the isles, who she discovered had traveled to the Blessed Isles long before the Ruination.
Ahri along the rest of the crew of the Charming Lady, consisting of her bodyguard Yasuo, Illaoi , their captain Sarah Fortune , Pyke and Braum .
Yasuo arrived on the Shadow Isles as part of the crew of the Charming Lady, accompanied by Braum , Illaoi , Pyke and their captain Sarah Fortune . The group faced off against a threatened Maokai before Ahri intervened, clearing the air and explaining the situation that Maokai shared with her. As the crew also wanted to find Gangplank, they realized he would most likely be in Thresh's fortress which was being protected by walls of the Black Mist. Ahri planned on heading to one of the Vesani vaults in search of more evidence, but the others insisted on accompanying her to cleanse Maokai's roots to which she reluctantly agreed.
The crew pushed back the Black Mist infesting the vault while Ahri slowly gained more knowledge and clues about her ancestors, discovering that they had a deep connection to the Shadow Isles and created technology based around preserving memories. Though they managed to cleanse Maokai's roots, he would regain his strength slowly and remained too weak to immediately help clear out the mist. Instead, the group planned to travel to a an undersea temple of the Buhru as Maokai gave Illaoi one of his seeds to be blessed by her god Nagakabouros , allowing him to quickly restore his grove and clear out the mist.
After Pyke managed to locate the deep undersea temple and Illaoi convinced the Buhru serpent callers to tame the sea monsters guarding it, the crew traveled into the undersea temple and found a place to purify the seed of the Black Mist and bless it. Ahri, using her powers to aid in the process, nearly lost control of herself due to the Black Mist corruption within the seed before regaining her sanity. With the seed now successfully blessed, the crew sailed back to the Shadow Isles to return it to Maokai.
On their way to Maokai's grove, the crew met an undead shade named Necrit , revealed to be the former advisor of Viego , the Ruined King of Camavor . Necrit explains and reveals the true, unknown origins of the Shadow Isles and how it was formed by the broken heart of Viego after the tragic death of his wife Isolde . Finally, Necrit warned the crew that Thresh's grand plan is to use artifacts of power to reawaken Viego from the mist before bidding them farewell and urging them to stop Thresh's ritual.
With Maokai reinvigorated by the purified seed, he managed to clear out the walls of mist and expose Thresh's fortress, allowing the crew to enter. Inside Thresh's Library of Agony, Ahri found Thresh's collection of Vesani artifacts, as well as Gangplank's sunstone which she discovered was a vessel used to contain memories. However, the sunstone seemed depleted and drained with only some residual memories of her ancestors. Wishing to examine it more, Ahri took the sunstone for safekeeping. The crew eventually manage to find Thresh and defeat him in battle, returning him to the Black Mist.
Now searching for Gangplank, the crew travelled to the heart of the Shadow Isles hoping to stop him but arrive too late, as Gangplank has already reawakened Viego. Though he attempted to capture Viego within a Buhru artifact, he fails and becomes possessed by the Ruined King as he flies towards Bilgewater alongside a violent Harrowing in search of his dead wife's crown . Forced to fight the crew under Viego's control, Gangplank was defeated and imprisoned on Sarah Fortune's ship. Meanwhile, Ahri managed to sense something lingering in the Black Mist and receieved visions of Viego's discarded memories, seeing the negative parts of his marriage and learning the truth; that his love for his wife was not as pure as he tells himself.
In order to pursue Viego, Yasuo volunteered to channel the wind into the sails and Ahri empowered him with her own magic. While Illaoi interrogates Gangplank for a way to defeat Viego, he reveals that the discarded memories discovered by Ahri would most likely be capable of weakening Viego enough to be defeated. Though they managed to reach Viego, he sends out a gale of Black Mist, shipwrecking the crew on a mysterious island with mystical winds. Here, Yasuo became haunted by visions of his past and confronted a shadow resembling his dead brother . Seeing Yasuo's past play in action, Ahri began to empathize with him and shared her own grief over her dead lover, allowing him to defeat the shadow and overcome his past. The ship is eventually repaired, allowing them to make it back to Bilgewater in time to prepare them for Viego's Harrowing.
The crew make a plan to have Ahri weaken Viego with his own discarded memories and imprison him within Gangplank's Buhru amulet, but it had been corrupted and damaged in the fight. Learning about an ancient Buhru forge located underneath the Shadow Isles, the crew plan to take the amulet there to have it repaired. Once they land at the Shadow Isles, they are once again confronted by Necrit, who revealed that the forge is located inside a Vesani vault with more evidence of Ahri's ancestors. Inside the vault, Ahri channeled the memories within her twin sunstones and learned that her people were a nomadic tribe of vastaya that specialized in studying magic relating to memories. Their nomadic lifestyle brought them to the Blessed Isles, where they became allies with the city of Helia and began to study the ethereal Hallowed Mist that once protected the isles, learning to harness its power to enchant golems, technologies and other artifacts such as Ahri's sunstones. The Vesani however became victims of the terrible Ruination of Helia that ultimately created the Shadow Isles.
After finding a facility capable of transferring memories into sunstones, Ahri planned to transfer all the research preserved by her Vesani ancestors into a sunstone and finally achieve the answers she had been looking for. However, she is eventually forced to make a decision; should she use the sunstone as a vessel to hold the memories of her people or to house Viego's discarded memories as a means to weaken him? Ahri, knowing what's at stake for the world, chose to store Viego's memories, causing the memories of her ancestors to fade away. Despairing over the loss, Ahri was suddenly faced with a memory of her dead lover, who forgave her for what she did. He explained that her memories will always be with her, but that it's more important to allow yourself to create new memories rather than dwell on old ones. He urges Ahri to keep fighting and to help save the world before finally fading away as Ahri thanks him for the closure.
As the crew managed to find the Buhru forge underneath the vault, Ahri joined the rest of the group as they bore their souls before Nagakabouros herself, battling the goddess's avatar and being found worthy of her help as the goddess cleanses the amulet.
Now back at Bilgewater, the crew finally battled the Ruined King while Ahri, wielding the sunstone containing his discarded memories, used her magic to weaken Viego, forcing him to remember the twisted parts of his love for Isolde. Once beaten, Ahri hit him with more of his memories, forcing him to relive his death when an angered wraith of Isolde killed him at the Blessed Isles. While distracted, Sarah Fortune used the opportunity to imprison Viego within the amulet. Though he nearly corrupted her soul and tempted her to follow him in the process, she was ultimately successful as the Ruined King was finally banished.
With the battle over, Ahri celebrated with her new friends at the Baron's Rest tavern, where each member of the group talked about their future plans now that Viego had been defeated. Ahri revealed that she plans on returning to the Shadow Isles, wishing to see what else she can learn from her ancestors and dedicating herself to living in their footsteps by bringing life and new memories to the world. [ 6 ]
Ahri is an attractive female Vesani of medium stature with pale skin and long black hair down to her back tied in a braid with two long strands sticking out on the sides in her face. Her eyes are golden yellow with slit-shaped pupils and her cheeks have red, whisker-like marks on them. Due to her vastayan nature, she has black fox ears atop her head, long claws for nails and nine white fox tails. She usually wears a white dress with red and gold details as well as trinkets such as three purple tassels.
At times, usually when hiding her vastayan nature among society to stop from unwanted attention, Ahri wears a giant white hooded cloak to shield not only her face but also her nine white tails.
Ahri started out as very savage and impulsive, growing up in the wilds away from civilization and becoming obsessed with consuming the spiritual essence of mortals. As she devoured more souls, she began to feel the emotions of her victims and became more empathetic and reluctant to continue her hunts. After the death of her lover, Ahri became consumed with regret and guilt, completely ashamed of her Vesani nature and distancing herself completely from society, only ever interacting with people to feast on their essence and sate her hunger. Ahri's pain grew so large that she simply wanted to forget all the painful memories, but ultimately decided that these memories were too valuable to let go of learned to carry her memories with her, no matter how painful they are.
Though deceivingly old and wise with the knowledge of the many memories she had consumed over the years, Ahri carries a youthful demeanor with a witty, mischievous and even flirty attitude. Although she remains somewhat moody and impulsive, sometimes losing control of her ravenous hunger, she has become incredibly empathetic with her abilities to consume emotions, even empathizing with those that would wish her harm. After choosing to cleanse the memories of her ancestors from her sunstones, Ahri found closure with her past and now lives to uphold the wisdoms of the Vesani by looking towards the future and allowing herself to make new memories instead of dwelling on her old ones.
Since childhood, Ahri has observed human civilization from afar until she encountered a hunter dying from a stray arrow. Curiously sensing his fading life force, Ahri got her first taste of spiritual essence and absorbed the man's memories, gaining all his knowledge and experiences. Since then, Ahri hunted down human prey for years, drunkenly drinking their essence and learning to manipulate them with her charms.
She slowly felt a sense of regret as she grew empathetic from absorbing human emotions, eventually seeing how they perceived her as a monstrous fox demon. Despite this, Ahri accepted her monstrous nature and continued to feast on human essence. It wasn't until she met her first and only love, a human artist, that she began to feel true sympathy for humans and decided to completely Now, after befriending Yasuo and the rest of Sarah Fortune's crew, she feels a deep sense of empathy and sympathy or her prey, sparing them from her hunger by learning to control it.
Years ago, Ahri fell in love with a human artist who remains as her first and only true love. Unlike the rest of Ahri's prey, the artist was the first person to willingly offer his essence to Ahri in exchange for her love, to which she agreed. From there, she felt true happiness for the first time as the two would often lay in a lake at the edge of Ionia. Unfortunately, Ahri lost control of her hunger one day and accidentally drained her lover completely, thoroughly killing him.
For years Ahri lived in constant regret over the death of her lover and attempted to remove the memories of him entirely at the Garden of Forgetting . In the process though, Ahri realized that her memories of her lover were too valuable to simply let go of and decided to live with them, no matter how painful it is to remember.
Ahri finally found closure with the death of her lover when she cleansed the memories of her ancestors from the sunstones at the Buhru forge. In the process of this, Ahri sorrowed over the loss of the memories of her ancestors but was confronted with a memory of her lover, who urged Ahri to fight for the future and told her to live life to create new memories instead of dwelling on her old ones. This interaction defined Ahri, allowing her to live as she does now, as a protector of life in the same vein as her Vesani ancestors.
Hirin was a fortune teller that Ahri encountered in an Ionian market during her search for clues about her long-lost vastayan tribe. The fortune teller recognized Ahri's mysterious set of twin sunstones as the work of Ymelo, which intrigued Ahri as she agreed to enter her caravan for tea and to discuss more about her stones. Hirin revealed everything she knew about Ymelo to Ahri, before pulling out a hunting knife and revealing that she had put a paralysis potion in Ahri's cup of tea. Wishing to cut off one of her tails as an ingredient for her potions, Ahri managed to absorb enough of Hirin's essence to regain her strength and defend herself. Though she was furious at the betrayal, she looked into Hirin's memories and hardships in life, deciding to spare her life and leaving her without any memory of their encounter, essentially making her forget Ahri completely.
The Gardener is the mysterious caretaker of the Garden of Forgetting , also known as Ighilya by Ahri. The Gardener seems to be a person with some magical affinity rumored to be a witch of some sorts and offered Ahri guidance when she arrived to the garden with regret and sorrows over her dead lover. Though Ahri desperately begged the Gardener to help her forget these painful memories, she was reluctant to help her and urged her to live life with the pain and attempting to convince her that forgetting is much worse than living with the pain. As Ahri was in the process of feeding her memories to a snow lily given to her by the Gardener, she finally took her advice and refused to forget, believing that her memories of her lover were too valuable to forget. When the garden attempted to trap Ahri for interrupting the process, the Gardener quietly warned Ahri to leave before it was too late, allowing her to escape.
Ymelo is the famed sculptor said to have created Ahri's twin sunstones as well as many others. Though who his true origins are unknown, he's famed across the world for his ability to carve ancient fossilized eggs into intricate shapes and often creates small artifacts as pieces of larger sculptors. After learning of Ymelo, Ahri found clues leading her to Bilgewater, where she confronted a vendor at a black market and tried finding another of his sculptors, which the vendor sold to Malik of the Jagged Hooks .
The Vesani are Ahri's long-lost vastayan tribe. Since her childhood, Ahri was completely unaware of their existence and lived lost and questioning her origins. After embracing her nature as a vastaya, Ahri dedicated herself in finding clues about her Vesani ancestors, hoping that she could learn how to control her insatiable hunger for spiritual essence.
Her quest eventually lead her to the Shadow Isles , where she discovered the deep history the Vesani have with the now cursed Blessed Isles. By delving into their many vaults across the isles, studying their artifacts and sensing the memories left over by her people, Ahri learned that the Vesani were a nomadic tribe that traveled to the Blessed Isles and allied themselves with the Helians , becoming experts on magic related to memories.
When Ahri was forced to decide between containing the collected knowledge of her ancestors or the discarded memories of the Ruined King , she decided the latter and saw the memories of her people fade away. Mourning this, she was confronted by a memory of her long dead lover, who urged Ahri to fight for the future instead of dwelling on the past. With this, Ahri dedicates herself to upholding the teachings of the Vesani, becoming a protector of life and memories, looking to the future and creating new memories to honor her ancestors.
The crew of the Charming Lady is a group that come together in order to stop Viego and confront the Black Mist. Throughout their journey, Ahri forms a bond based on their shared experiences. This crew consisted of Braum , Illaoi , Pyke , Yasuo , Ahri and was led by Sarah Fortune
Sarah Fortune is the captain of the Charming Lady and acts as the leader of the crew. Though she was initially distrustful of Ahri due to the fact that she fed on some of her crewmates' essences, she learned to trust and respect Ahri's powers after the crew found her in the Shadow Isles . Sarah is somewhat intimidated by Ahri's abilities, most notably her ability to absorb life essence and manipulate peoples' emotions, but she also respects them, often stating how she's jealous of Ahri's abilities to read people so easily and that she considers herself lucky to have Ahri on their side. The two eventually share even more respect for one another, as Ahri realizes the struggle Sarah faces when trying to maintain control of Bilgewater and Sarah respects Ahri's capability of restraining her hunger for spiritual essence.
The two were instrumental in defeating Viego together, as Ahri used the memories contained within her sunstone while Sarah proceeded to use the Buhru amulet on the weakened Ruined King.
Braum was a member of the crew of the Charming Lady, having been the one who named the vessel in the first place. When the two first meet, Ahri admits that she initially assumed Braum was a troll when they first met due to his massive stature, which makes Braum laugh. The two become quick friends, as Ahri is one of the few on the crew that finds his boundless optimism and 'spirited' nature entertaining. Braum eventually confides in Ahri about Yasuo's unwavering dedication to protect her, which flatters Ahri and kickstarts her rising relationship with Yasuo as well. The two curiously exchange information about each other's homelands, such as Braum explaining the Iceborn to Ahri and even going so far as to invite her personally to visit the Freljord one day.
Illaoi was a member of the crew of the Charming Lady and a close ally of Sarah Fortune. When they first find Ahri at the Shadow Isles, Illaoi is the one who suggest they join Ahri on entering the Vesani vaults. Unlike others, Illaoi doesn't share a sense of distrust or even fears Ahri's hunger at all, instead being mostly intrigued of her ability to sense the spirits and memories of the Vesani. Illaoi states to Ahri that she has proven she is worthy of their trust and that is why she has no reason to fear her, which Ahri is both cautioned yet flattered by. As the two empathize on their quests to seek their own truths and places in the universe, Illaoi preaches that she believes that their fates are intertwined and that, as a member of the crew, Ahri can seek the answers she is looking for.
Pyke was a member of the crew of the Charming Lady and joined the rest of the crew on their mission to stop the Ruined King. When they met, Ahri instantly knew that Pyke wasn't entirely human as he bluntly explained his vengeful origins. The two share similarities of having murderous pasts, but Ahri painfully reflects on hers while Pyke simply accepts his nature as a murderer and states Ahri should do the same. The two are also the only seemingly immortal members of the Charming Lady crew, as Pyke tells Ahri that he doesn't care about the future and only wants to find the revenge he's been searching for. Ahri, using her abilities, sees more on Pyke's mind beyond his desire to kill.
Ahri met Yasuo during a Spirit Blossom festival, hiring him to be her bodyguard on her way to Bilgewater . Though she initially kept her distance from him, not even revealing her name let alone her nature as a vastaya, he managed to find out the truth and, though Ahri was reluctant to keep him around, Yasuo still promised to stay by her side and disregarded Ahri's warnings of her ravenous nature. After of her dead lover, Ahri realized that bringing Yasuo was a mistake and instead ran away to continue her quest without him, seeing it as a mercy and a way of keeping Yasuo safe from herself. Despite this, Yasuo refused to fail as a body guard a second time and dedicated himself to finding Ahri, going as far as to join the crew of the Charming Lady on their way to the Shadow Isles .
After they reunite when Ahri joins the crew at the Shadow Isles, the two grew closer as Ahri, regretful for leaving Yasuo, decided to explain herself and revealed why she ran away in the first place. Overtime, the two bond over their shared Ionian heritage and their renewed sense of purpose by travelling outside of their shared homeland. After being shipwrecked on a mysterious island with mystical winds, Ahri witnesses Yasuo confront the shadows of his past and empathies with his trauma, having a similar tragedy happen to her as well. Together, they vow to move past their own grief in favor of a better future.
Yasuo cares deeply for Ahri not only as her protector but also in a more personal way. Ahri on the other hand states that Yasuo reminds her of her dead lover in a few ways, most notably in the way he makes her laugh with his brooding yet witty sense of humor.
Viego sought to resurrect his dead queen Isolde at any cost, risking to plunge the entire world in an endless Harrowing . As a member of the Charming Lady, Ahri joined the rest of the crew in defeating him and preventing his catastrophic plan. Thanks to her unique ability to control memories, Ahri was the one who found Viego's discarded memories of his twisted love, willing to sacrifice the memories of her ancestors within her sunstone in order to contain and weaponize the discarded memories against the Ruined King.
In the final battle, Ahri was instrumental in Viego's defeat, clouding his mind with the discarded memories and forcing him to relive them. This weakened him enough to allow the rest of the crew to defeat him as Sarah Fortune imprisoned him within an amulet.
Thresh allied himself with Gangplank as part of his plan to awaken Viego in the Shadow Isles. As part of his plan, Thresh had Gangplank collect a multitude of relics, including a sunstone that Ahri had been chasing after. While exploring his fortress, Ahri finds many Vesani artifacts and knowledge hidden away in Thresh's collection, giving her more clues to her ancestors. Ahri aided the crew in defeating Thresh, forcing him to return to the Black Mist before going after Gangplank next.
Malik is a member of the Jagged Hooks and a lieutenant of Gangplank . When Ahri was searching for one of Ymelo's sunstones at a black market, she learned that Malik already purchased it and traveled to the Shadow Isles, causing Ahri to follow him. At the Shadow Isles, Malik saw Ahri passed through the isles, as he gave the sunstone to his captain before dying after he released a Shadow Isles mistwraith and was attacked.
As part of Thresh's plan to awaken Viego, he sent Gangplank to collect a multitude of artifacts to aid him, including one of the Vesani sunstones. By following various clues and travelling to the Shadow Isles herself, she learns that Gangplank got a hold of the sunstone she was searching for and scoured the isles for him, eventually finding the stone in Thresh's library. Ahri helped the rest of the crew defeat Gangplank when he got possessed by the Ruined King.
Ahri first encounters and befriends Maokai when she travels to the Shadow Isles in search of Gangplank and his sunstone. While in his grove, Ahri is told the origins of the Shadow Isles by Maokai, learning about the gentle caretaker underneath his frightening exterior. Ahri aids the rest of the crew when they try to cleanse his roots to allow him to restore his grove, followed by them blessing one of his seeds to empower him even further.
The Nine-Tailed Fox
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Ahri
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
A Fair Trade
Ahri walks in disguise, but this fortune-teller has her own secret. What are they both hiding?
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
Garden of Forgetting (Short Story)
More than memories are lost in this garden - what will become of Ahri if she surrenders hers?
Kin of the Stained Blade
Not forgiven. Not forgotten.
Starring: Ahri , Yasuo , Yone
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Magic Misadventures (Video)
Part Two of Ava’s adventure leads her through the enchanted forests of Ionia, where unseen dangers—and unlikely friends—lurk in the shadows.
Starring: Ahri , Ava , Book of Thresholds , Kennen
Short Story
By Dana Luery Shaw
Many had feared that the spirit blossoms would never return to Ionia, a sign of the imbalance still permeating the land and its people.
Mentioned: Kindred
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Eduard Santangelo's Vastaya Field Journal
By Anthony Burch
Chimeras with human blood? Spiritual magic from an ancient race? In my humble inquiries I have stumbled upon far greater questions... this shall make for quite the chronicle. A best-seller, in fact. "Eduard Santangelo, gentleman of Piltover, explorer of Ionia, who discovered the wondrous vastaya in the wilds of Ionia." I can already hear them clamoring for the first edition.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Mentioned: Kassadin
Harmonies: Issue 5
Ahri reflects on the long road that led to her forming K/DA: breaking old bonds while establishing new ties, navigating the flood of attention (and expectation) following their initial success, and looking forward to their bright future.
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Interview: Inside K/DA
By PopRox , Indu Reddy
PopRox chats with K/DA on their style, personal life, and success after POP/STARS.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa
Light and Shadow
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Fiora , Vladimir
Mentioned: Lulu
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
Star-Crossed: Embrace
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
By Unknown Author
The Ionian countryside burned. Noxian Legions ripped through the land like a serrated knife, their gleaming armor blood-red in the sinking sun. Blazing temples lit the waning daylight, and distant cries of anguish filled the air.
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Harmonies: Issue 3
A true fan follows the elusive Evelynn's career, leading to a chance encounter that changes everything.
Starring: Evelynn
Mentioned: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Abandoning the Kinkou Order and her title of the Fist of Shadow, Akali now strikes alone, ready to be the deadly weapon her people need. Though she holds onto all she learned from her master Shen, she has pledged to defend Ionia from its enemies, one kill at a time. Akali may strike in silence, but her message will be heard loud and clear: fear the assassin with no master.
Akali was born within the Kinkou Order , daughter to Tahno and Maymm Jhomen Tethi. Maymm was the renowned Fist of Shadow and one of the Kinkou leaders in charge of preserving the delicate spiritual balance of Ionia . As a child, Akali's parents would often be called off on their duties, leaving her under the care of other Kinkou masters such as Master Kusho or Kennen . When in the care of Kennen, Akali would be taught many shuriken techniques and honed her skills in speed and agility. Being a prodigy, Akali showed great promise as a member of the Kinkou Order and woult often train alongside Master Kusho's son and appointed successor Shen .
During the Noxian Invasion of Ionia , Master Kusho's adopted son and former student Zed returned to the order after having left to participate in the war. With an army of his own followers, Zed planned to enact a violent takeover of the Kinkou Order and seemingly killed Master Kusho, transforming the Kinkou into the Shadow Order . Zed and his acolytes proceeded to kill the remaining Kinkou, including Akali's father Tahno. Luckily, Akali fled to a long-abandoned temple in the eastern mountains alongside a small group of other Kinkou consisting of her mother Maymm, Kennen and the new Eye of Twilight , Shen.
In the mountains, Shen began rebuilding the Kinkou Order by returning to its three fundamental philosophes: the pure impartiality of Watching the Stars , the passage of judgment in Coursing the Sun , and the elimination of imbalance by Pruning the Tree. As Fist of Shadow, Maymm's duty was in Pruning the Tree, training Akali and several other neophytes to become assassins that would kill those that would threaten the balance. By the age of nine, Akali became close friends with another neophyte name Faey, Maymm's young apprentice and possible successor. Though Akali was skilled, she was often impatient and rambunctious, often causing trouble for Faey and the neophytes due to being the youngest of them.
Akali's friend and fellow neophyte Faey, firing arrows and attempting to free her friends.
While training and playing games, Akali and the rest of the neophytes encountered a band of warriors from the Navori Brotherhood , an Ionian nationalist faction formed in the aftermath of the Noxian invasion currently searching for people to forcefully recruit into their army. Akali and the group of neophytes hid in the trees, not wanting to lead the brotherhood back to their Kinkou temple. Using a variety of tricks and traps, they managed to scare the warriors away by convincing them that the forest was cursed.
In the process, the group accidentally angered a corrupted nature spirit that began rampaging and entrapping the neophytes in vines. Faey quickly tried freeing them while Akali helped, against Faey's orders, by hastily running circles around the spirit, distracting it. While Akali dragged some of the neophytes to safety, Faey was suddenly struck by the spirit and fell to the ground, becoming gravely injured and breaking her leg. At that moment, Maymm, Shen and Kennen arrived just in time to dispel the spirit and save the children.
Back at the temple, Akali was praised by her fellow students for her speed in saving them. When Faey woke up, she realized the severity of her injuries as she was missing a leg and unable to walk. When Akali tried to comfort her, Faey snapped at Akali, blaming her and angered by the fact that she disobeyed her orders. Hearing her distress, Maymm enetered the room and comforted Faey, vowing to find a way to heal Faey's leg and allow her to walk again so she can fight alongside her as her apprentice once again. Akali, overhearing the conversation, saw the kindness Maymm harbored for Faey and tearfully walked off. [ 1 ]
At the age of fourteen, Akali formally entered her Kinkou training, determined to eventually succeed her mother in becoming the new Fist of Shadow. Though she possessed no magical talents like the other acolytes who would fill her role, she proved her worth of the title by sheer skill. Soon, Maymm stepped down from her role as Fist of Shadow and focused on mentoring the other neophytes, officially granting Akali the title as her successor.
As the Noxian Invasion ended and the Shadow Order reached an uneasy accord with the Kinkou, Akali slowly saw the suffering her people still endured. She began to question her purpose as the Fist of Shadow and whether or not she was truly fulfilling her duties in Pruning the Tree . Shen would constantly urge restraint, teaching her meditation techniques and mantras to tame her spirit. However, Akali believed Shen was holding her back, constantly arguing and defying him as she took down Ionia's enemies in her own way.
Finally growing sick of Shen's views on Ionia's balance, Akali insulted the entire order by declaring their impotence, claiming their lack of action in favor of spiritual balance has lead to more Ionians suffering in the Material Realm. Akali officially left order, discarding her title as Fist of Shadow, while Shen let her go without arguing. Shen believed that this was a path that Akali must walk alone with hopes of her returning to the order one day, though he knows that is a decision only she can make herself.
Now living as an independent assassin, free from the restraints of the Kinkou Order's teachings, Akali lived as a vigilante, traversing the urban underground of Ionia and killing those that cause her people harm.
In the coastal village of Weh'le , a hidden phantom port with mystical properties, Akali went on a mission to assassinate a councilman from Puboe who had sold out his own people to Noxian invaders in exchange for gold and safe passage through. She visited her tattoo artist Bo'lii, a vastayan artist who ran a tavern in the port. While drawing a tattoo of a dragon on her back, the Puboe councilman walked into Bo'lii's tavern accompanied by three guards. Akali planned to kill them on the spot, but Bo'lii urged her to do her business outside of his tavern this time, to which she agreed. Once outside, Akali approached and killed the councilman's guards by hiding in a smoke cloud and firing several kunais before finally killing the councilman himself. [ 2 ]
Despite being an independent assassin and having left the Kinkou Order, Akali still retained a close relationship with Shen, who continued acting as her mentor. One day, the two came across a Noxian boy in the Navori province cutting wood from a Guardian Tree . While Akali plans to punish the Noxian with brute force, Shen suggests she finds a different approach. As the Noxian loaded up his cart, Akali arrived and broke the wagon's wheels with her shuriken, discovering that the Noxian is actually a young boy to Akali's surprise.
As the sap of the Guardian Tree began to flow into a shrine, it awoke its protector; a large stone guardian that slowly walked towards the Noxian boy. By granting Akali his ability to see into the Spirit Realm , he revealed to Akali that the protector was powered by the anger of the forest, seeking to restore balance and avenge the Guardian Tree by killing the Noxian boy. Against Shen's wishes, Akali rushed forward and attacked the protector with little to no effect. While trying to lift the wagon off of the Noxian boy, Akali realized that the only way to restore the balance is if the boy planted a new tree in its place. By taking a seed from a nearby branch, Akali had the boy plant the seed into the ground before Shen used his spiritual powers to instantly grow the seed into a sapling, taming the stone protector. Lifting the wagon off of the boy, Akali gave him a warning not to harm the land as Shen used his powers to grow the sapling into an even larger Guardian Tree, wrapping itself around the shrine guardian. [ 3 ]
In Zhyun , Akali got word that Zed recently assassinated the Kinkou master Althon, a cousin of Shen. Finding Shen in the Olgathee Forest killing corrupted spirits, Akali told him the news about master Althon, stating that she knows the town that Zed is staying in and suggesting she and Shen go confront him, which he reluctantly agrees to. [ 4 ]
Once at a tavern in Thonx , the two found out from the innkeeper that Zed had already left and attacked a blossom festival before heading north to Shual . Akali suggested they follow him, but Shen stated that he had to travel south to slay demons that have been terrorizing a village. Akali tried to convince Shen to follow her to Shual, but Shen remained dedicated to his duties as the Eye of Twilight, urging his former student not to chase Zed alone. Akali, disregarding Shen's warning, took a boat and sailed down the quickest route to Shual. [ 5 ]
Akali at a Kinkou temple confronting members of the Shadow Order , including Shieda Kayn .
Travelling to an inn near the Kinkou temple of Koeshin, Akali found a group of Zed's acolytes disguised as Kinkou, including Zed's apprentice Shieda Kayn . Kayn told Akali that their masters were inside the inn while Akali threatened them by calling a group of Kinkou warriors to defend the temple. Zed then exited the inn followed by Shen, who ordered Akali to let the Shadow Order walk free since Zed declared the Code of Tuonn, an honorable call for temporary peace that allows them to let each other walk free without combat. Akali however wasn't satisfied with just letting Zed go and dashed in to kill him anyway, which Zed easily avoided by shadow shifting away while the rest of his acolytes quickly fled the Kinkou temple. Angered by Akali's recklessness, Shen told her never to fight Zed and that he'll fight him alone in the future, officially declaring that the armistice between the Shadow Order and the Kinkou has ended.
Shen eventually revealed to Akali what transpired in the inn; Zed came to warn Shen that the serial killer Khada Jhin had escaped and that he seeks to bring him back to prison. Though Zed wanted to ally with Shen and capture Jhin, Shen refused and insisted on catching Jhin on his own without the help of the Shadow Order, declaring that if he sees Zed interfere then he'll personally kill him and finally settle their scores.
Akali followed Shen as he investigated a trail of intricate clues in search of the murderer Khada Jhin. Shen's investigation eventually lead him to believe that Jhin was working with the Kashuri faction , a radical nationalist group with ties to the Navori Brotherhood. This trail lead Shen to Nanthee , believing that the village elder was a potential target of Jhin's murder spree. Once at the scene of the crime, Shen stopped Akali from looking at the corpses, stating that she simply isn't ready to see the horrors that Jhin committed. [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
Eventually, Jhin's traps activated as dozens of bombs hidden in lanterns across Nanthee began exploding, killing many and causing massive damage to the city. Akali, noticing the explosion from afar, vows to kill Jhin for what he'd done. Noticing a small ship in the distance and deducing that that's where Jhin was escaping, Akali demanded to know where it was headed, learning that it was headed to the Piltover .
Deciding to follow Jhin's trail alone, Akali set sail and eventually landed in Piltover. On her search for Jhin, Akali questioned and interrogated many of the locals, which lead her to the undercity of Zaun . In Zaun, she learned that Jhin had been attacking Piltover merchant clans that did business in exporting weapons to Ionia. By questioning the Piltover enforcers, Akali found herself at a theater in the Zaunite neighborhood of Mistfloor, where Jhin was said to have battled with the Ferros clan and their intelligencer agent . [ 8 ]
At the theater, Jhin revealed an elaborate trap for Akali, wishing to make her the fourth victim in his disturbing art piece as three piltovans hung from Ionian trees strapped to machines. These machines began firing harpoons at Akali, who narrowly dodged them by tossing a smoke bomb before being hit unconscious by an explosive blast created by Jhin's rifle . [ 9 ]
Jhin, having anticipated Zed and Shen's arrivals, set a trap by tying Akali up in a tree near a decoy of his. While Jhin tried to kill the two of them with Zaunite machinery, Zed managed to toss a shuriken at Akali, cutting her rope and freeing her from Jhin's trap. While Jhin was ready to fire a shot into Shen's head, Akali burst out of the smoke and punched Jhin to the ground, grabbing his gun and preparing to kill him for his crimes while Shen pleaded for her not to as he needed to bring Jhin to Ionia alive. Before she could kill him, Zed pushed her aside and grabbed Jhin, demanding he tell him how he got out of prison. Jhin simply replied with cryptic riddles, stating that Zed already knew who freed him before Zed threw Jhin to Shen and Akali's feet, stating that their bargain is done as he quickly fled Zaun. [ 10 ]
Akali joining the effort to defend Ionia from Noxus alongside Irelia , Kennen , Karma and Yasuo .
At some point, Noxus began a second incursion of Ionia, sending massive armies accompanied by the undead juggernaut Sion . When the Ionian war hero Irelia began a resistance, she requested aid at a seaside village and received assistance from Kinkou members lead by Akali and Kennen , the spiritual leader Karma and the lone wanderer Yasuo . During the defense against the Noxian army, Akali targeted Sion and struck him with her kama and smoke bombs before joining Irelia and the rest of the champions in a final charge against the Noxians. [ 8 ]
Akali is a slender but muscular woman with light skin and red-brown eyes. Her thick black hair is often tussled, tied back in a large, messy bun which flares in every direction. She also has a tattoo of a pale blue dragon among white clouds swirling around her arms and across the backs of her shoulders.
Her typical professional attire is various shades of green with brown leather highlights. She wears baggy pants, a crop top, tabi, and a cloth mask that covers her lower face.
Akali is impatient, explosive and determined, preferring to leave the Kinkou Order rather than betray her own ideals and not fight for her people. It is notable that, despite this, she is still loyal to Ionia, being able to do anything, even to become a murderer, to protect the First Lands and her home.
Akali is currently a ninja gone rogue from the Kinkou Order . Although still part of it, she operates outside of its rules and regulations. [ 11 ] She and Shen parted on neutral terms. Neither hates the other but both disapprove of the other's methods. [ 12 ] While growing up in the Kinkou, Kennen trained her and helped her refine her shuriken techniques.
Zed might attempt to recruit her for his Order of Shadows. Akali; however, wants him dead since many Kinkou members including her father Tahno were killed by him and his order.
Akali and Kayn know each other. He has tried to flirt with her multiple times and Akali finds him hot but too crazy for her taste.
Akali temporarily teamed up with Shen to track down Jhin after they were informed of his escape. She later pursued Jhin to Piltover - Zaun and got captured by him, but was later saved with the help of Shen and Zed .
In the second Noxian invasion of Ionia , Irelia's call for help to defend a seaside village from the Noxian army including Sion was met by Akali, Karma , Kennen and Yasuo whose arrival turned the tide of the battle.
The Rogue Assassin
By Michael McCarthy
Starring: Akali
Mentioned: Kennen , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story
Leaving Weh'le
“Ah— Hey! Bo'lii!” I cry out. “Cut me a little deep, don't you think?”
Mentioned: Shen
The Bow, and the Kunai
The air of southern Shon-Xan was rife with raw magic.
Starring: Akali , Kennen , Shen
Mentioned: Kusho , Zed
Akali learns an important lesson from her former Kinkou master, Shen, when they encounter a young woodcutter upsetting the balance of Ionia.
Starring: Akali , Shen
The Man with the Steel Cane
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Shen , Zed
The Rogue Assassin (Video)
Zed: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed is lured back to a village where he and Shen once encountered a great evil, a brutal killer from their past resurfaces: the magically gifted psychopath Khada Jhin!
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Rhaast
Zed: Issue 2
Zed is under attack from all sides! He and his band of assassins are ambushed by the twisted Khada Jhin! In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 3
In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 4
Khada Jhin's master plan comes together in a most explosive and deadly manner! But even if Zed and Shen survive, they might just kill one another! Only one will be left standing by the end of this issue!
Zed: Issue 5
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Zed: Issue 6
It's all led to this: Zed and Shen, united in a final battle with the psychopathic murderer Khada Jhin! And the life of the captive Akali hangs in the balance! Then--Shen and Zed's greatest enemy will stand revealed…and you'll never guess who it is! Shocking secrets about the past AND the present will be unveiled…and whoever survives will be left to pick up the pieces!
Between Light and Shadows
Kennen had not slowed since setting off from the Great Temple of Koeshin.
Starring: Kennen
Mentioned: Akali , Shen
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Eye of Twilight
By Michael Luo
Starring: Shen
Mentioned: Akali , Jhin , Kusho , Zed
The Heart of the Tempest
By Ian St. Martin
Mentioned: Akali , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Virtual hip-hop group True Damage was born when K/DA's lead rapper Akali sought to bring together the distinct talents of Ekko, Senna, Qiyana, and Yasuo in an ambitious, genre-defying collaboration.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
By True Damage
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Mentioned: Kassadin
Harmonies: Issue 5
Ahri reflects on the long road that led to her forming K/DA: breaking old bonds while establishing new ties, navigating the flood of attention (and expectation) following their initial success, and looking forward to their bright future.
Interview: Inside K/DA
By PopRox , Indu Reddy
PopRox chats with K/DA on their style, personal life, and success after POP/STARS.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Mentioned: Lulu
Shadow of a Doubt
Star Guardians have a brilliant light, but some stagger in the darkness. Can Akali escape her own nightmares?
Starring: Akali , Morgana
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Quinn , Rell , Taliyah
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
Star-Crossed: Embrace
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Harmonies: Issue 3
A true fan follows the elusive Evelynn's career, leading to a chance encounter that changes everything.
Starring: Evelynn
Mentioned: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Raising an eyebrow in the face of danger, Akshan fights evil with dashing charisma, righteous vengeance, and a conspicuous lack of shirts. He is highly skilled in the art of stealth combat , able to evade the eyes of his enemies and reappear when they least expect him. With a keen sense of justice and a legendary death-reversing weapon , he rights the wrongs of Runeterra's many scoundrels while living by his own moral code: "Don't be an ass."
Akshan grew up an orphan in the Shuriman city of Marwi, where brutal warlords ruled by subjugating the civilians and taking what they wanted. As a young boy, Akshan refused to let these misdeeds go unnoticed and often intervened at the sight of injustice. This eventually lead to Akshan making enemies with powerful warlords who eventually beat him to near-death, leaving him unconscious and dying on the street.
Akshan was soon found by an elderly woman named Shadya, who took him into her home and miraculously nursed him back to health. While staying with the old woman, Akshan discovered Shadya was a member of the Sentinels of Light ; an ancient order dedicated to protecting the world from horrors of Undead . Despite his shortcomings as a stubborn and troubled youth, Shadya saw immense potential in Akshan due to his dedication to fighting injustice. Shadya offered to allow Akshan to safely live with her and in exchange he'd dedicate himself to the Sentinels of Light order, which Akshan happily agreed to.
Shadya and Akshan formed a fast bond, as Shadya mentored Akshan everything she knew to survive as a solo Sentinel. As Akshan's Sentinel skills grew under Shadya's tutelage, he slowly noticed his mentor growing more distant. When the time came, Shadya finally revealed to her pupil the source of her concern, that a Harrowing was coming, larger than the world had ever seen with an army of undead from the Shadow Isles . Shadya stated that their only hope in defending against this future threat is laid in a collection of ancient Sentinel weapons buried in Shurima's crypts and tombs. However, they would find most of their weapons gone, pilfered by local warlords who sought to unlock their powers for themselves. The Sentinels would try to negotiate the return of their weapons, but to no avail. With time running out, they would have to make do with what they had left.
As they took stock of their remaining arsenal, one peculiar relic gun would catch Akshan's eye, but it was quickly snatched away by Shadya, who forbade him from ever using it. This weapon was known as the Absolver, a gun that was enchanted to revive anyone who was recently killed by someone, if it kills its target. Shadya believed that only fate should wield the powers of life and death, but Akshan disagreed, believing that fate needed a little help. Akshan continued to pry for more information about the weapon until Shadya revealed the truth, she had used it to revive the young sentinel. Shadya once wielded the Absolver and slayed Akshan's would-be murderer many years ago, restoring him to life. The revelation would cause Akshan ponder what had made him so worthy of being revived. While Akshan questioned the antiquated rules of his order, Shadya continued to press the warlords to return their weapons, leading to tensions between the two groups.
Things would come to a head on one tragic day, when Akshan would find Shadya murdered on the streets. After burying her within the sentinel base of Shurima, Akshan would disregard his late-mentor's wishes and armed himself with the Absolver, after making a few modifications. Filled with vengeance, Akshan decides to abandon the sentinel's cause and prepares for a new mission: to avenge his fallen teacher. He now hunts for his mentor's killer, delivering comeuppance to one warlord at a time.
The great Harrowing would soon arrive, blanketing the world in Black Mist. Lucian and a Sentinel Rookie would come to the Shuriman Sentinel base in search of the Absolver. The two would encounter Akshan, who explained what had happened to Shadya and his mission to bring her back. Akshan then departed to hunt down another warlord. The two Sentinels followed Akshan to the warlord's compound and watched the Absolver in action. After dispatching the warlord, the trio raced back to the base to see if Shadya was resurrected. When they find her body still lifeless, Lucian tries to recruiting him, but Akshan remains undeterred, and leaves to face another warlord.
As the two Sentinels prepare to return to headquarters, they notice that Viego is in the town below, searching for another fetter. As they confront the Ruined King, he unleashes an army of ghouls against them, making short work of the sentinels. As they lay dying, Akshan returns, having had a change of heart, and quickly dispatches the ghouls and takes their bodies back to the base. The two reawaken, realizing they were revived by the Absolver. Finally understanding Shadya's life goal was the sentinel's cause, Akshan finally agrees to join them and returns to Sentinel headquarters. Senna scolds Lucian and the Rookie for leaving in the middle of night for a secret a mission and at Akshan for his dress code violations.
Akshan joins the rest the Sentinels and Gwen as they mount their final assault against Viego on the Shadow Isles. As Senna draws out Viego, the Sentinels ambush him. Viego quickly turns the tide of the battle and quickly dispatches Senna and Gwen and creates a portal to Camavor and takes the fetters through. Akshan manages to slip through the portal as well and tries to take Viego out with the Absolver, but soon realizes his weapon is ineffective against the Ruined King. However, he is prompted by the recently revived Queen Isolde to shoot her instead, and he fires at the queen, returning her to eternal rest once again. With Isolde gone, Viego begins to weaken and Senna and Gwen are brought back to life. With their combined efforts, they manage to defeat the Ruined King and imprison him with Hallowed Mist.
They return to the Shadow Isles and reunite with their allies until they sense another dark presence approaching. Thresh arrives and reveals that he is now unbound from the Shadow Isles. He demands one of their souls in exchange for Senna's escaping, or all of their souls if none comply. The Sentinels try to resist him, but he proves too powerful. The Rookie offers their soul to Thresh instead, but as he prepares to harvest soul, the Rookie unleashes their wayfinder and teleports everyone back to headquarters instead. With Viego defeated, Akshan decides to return to Shurima and continue to honor Shadya's legacy.
After returning to Shurima, Akshan begins to forget his mentor and tries to find mementos to keep her memory alive. One day he recognizes a peculiar bracelet on the arm of a street urchin, realizing it once belonged to Shadya, he interrogates the child. The young girl reveals that she stole it from one of the warlords, determined to reclaim his master's lost jewelry, Akshan prepares to confront the warlord. Later that night, Akshan sneaks into the warlord's palace and holds him at gunpoint, demanding a confession. The sentinel orders the warlord to admit that he killed Shadya, after finding the rest of her jewelry in his possession, but he refutes the claim and asks what he really wants instead. Taking a second to ponder the question, Akshan realizes he wants peace and executes the warlord.
As Akshan walks back to city, his memories of Shadya continue to fade. He knows that she would not have approved of him killing the warlord out of vengeance, but he had done it for himself, yet it did not grant him the peace he desired. Looking towards the bracelets for solace, he notices an inscription on one of them, an old sentinel mantra: "Give all, and all may live." The sentinel suddenly has an epiphany and fires his grappling hook, he swings from building to building until he finds his target, the urchin from yesterday. He finds the young girl sleeping in an alley and wakes her, he then offers her Shadya's remaining bracelets, knowing it is what she would have wanted. Despite parting with the last remnants of his mentor, he now has the peace he was looking for, knowing Shadya would approve.
Akshan is an attractive young man with olive-colored skin, brown eyes, a short beard, and long, dark chocolate brown hair. He mainly wears a cloak with the emblem of the Sentinels of Light, wears no shirt and exposes his bare chest, wears black pants, black boots with gold stripes, and has several Shuriman amulets on his arms and hands.
Akshan is a charming young man who carries himself with confident swagger, boasting about his own abilities and quipping about his enemies. Underneath his usual charismatic demeanor, Akshan wishes to get revenge on those who wrong others, to the point where he prioritizes his own thirst for vengeance over his allies' wishes. Although he is unsure of whom killed his master, he has decided to kill all of the warlords not just as a trial-and-error method to bring Shadya back, but also to get revenge on all of them for getting away with their injustices.
In spite of this, Akshan favors justice at heart, and fights to defend people who can't defend themselves, and his resolve prevents him from losing his morals and letting his vindictiveness get the better of him. He cares about his master Shadya the most, and ultimately wants to bring Shadya back to life.
Shadya was the mentor and superior of Akshan. She revived Akshan with the use of the Absolver from the clutches of brutal warlords, recognizing his potential and dedication to fighting injustice. As a member of the Sentinels of Light , Shadya imparted her knowledge and skills to Akshan, forging a strong bond between them. However, their relationship becomes strained when Shadya withholds information about the Absolver, a powerful relic gun she once used to save Akshan's life. Shadya's death at the hands of an unknown warlord becomes the catalyst for Akshan's journey of vengeance.
Lucian is a seasoned Sentinel of Light in search of the Absolver, a weapon that could both kill and revive. Initially seeking the relic for its potential in combating the Wraiths , Lucian encounters Akshan, who shares the story of Shadya's murder and his mission for retribution. Although Lucian attempts to recruit Akshan to the Sentinel cause, the young and vengeful Akshan remains resolute in his personal quest. Lucian's interactions with Akshan reveal a clash of ideologies and priorities, with the seasoned Sentinel trying to instill a sense of duty in the determined and rebellious Akshan. Akshan has mentioned that he sees a lot of Shadya in Lucian .
Akshan's initial encounter with Senna is met with mixed reactions by the commanding officer of the Sentinels of Light . She scolds Akshan for his dress code violations and is not sure this young Sentinel is up for the task. He would prove her wrong by mercy-killing Isolde , thereby bringing back Senna and Gwen from death.
Vayne's initial reaction to Akshan's recruitment is met with disdain, wanting to kill him for his brash remarks towards her and other members of the Sentinels of Light . After sealing of Viego , she and him would stand on neutral terms, recognizing his abilities.
The Rogue Sentinel
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Akshan
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story
In Search of Things Lost
Shadya had only been dead a few weeks, and already Akshan could feel all traces of her slipping away.
Rise of the Sentinels
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Steadfast Heart: Issue 5
By Ian St. Martin
Senna trains the new Sentinels of Light, as Lucian searches for the wielder of a legendary weapon in Shurima. Meanwhile, the Ruined King gains allies of his own.
Starring: Akshan , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde , Senna
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
The Boys and Bombolini
By Jared Rosen
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Always a mighty warrior with a fearsome reputation, Alistar seeks revenge for the death of his clan at the hands of the Noxian empire. Though he was enslaved and forced into the life of a gladiator, his unbreakable will was what kept him from truly becoming a beast. Now, free of the chains of his former masters, he fights in the name of the downtrodden and the disadvantaged, his rage as much a weapon as his horns, hooves and fists.
Alistar grew up in the Minotaur clans of the Great Barrier mountains. Historically, these Minotaurs protected the overland trade routes to Zaun , gaining a fearsome reputation as strong beasts but preferring to to avoid Valoran's wider political conflicts.
Alistar was known as a noble warrior and respected among all the clans. Despite this, he always urged his kin to forge greater bonds with the other races, wishing to reach out to them. Unfortunately, most civilizations saw Minotaurs as nothing but beasts and monsters, souring their relations with outsiders.
When the Noxian empire came to the Great Barrier, they requested a parley with representatives from the Minotaur clans. The emissary of Noxus, a matriarch of House Tewain, stated that the empire was preparing to take the eastern coastal city of Basilich and could not go through with it without the support of the Minotaur clans. While many of the Minotaurs were eager to accept her offer and join Noxus, seeing this as a way to gain power and recognition, Alistar remained skeptical. Having encountered Noxian scouts previously, Alistar knew them to be duplicitous and cunning people, and so was incredibly distrustful of the potential invaders. Hearing Tewain's call for support from the Minotaurs, Alistar's clan sent him and fifty of their mightiest warriors to personally meet the matriarch and reject her alliance on behalf of the clan.
When Alistar arrived to announce his clan's position on the issue, he discovered that most of the larger Minotaur clans had already pledged themselves to Noxus. Now seeing Alistar and his clan as opposition to the Noxian empire, the clan representatives betrayed Alistar, attacking him and his warriors for their new Noxian masters. In the swift and brutal battle, Alistar managed to kill many of the Noxian soldiers and traitorous Minotaurs, even choking the life out of Lady Tewain. Despite this, Alistar and his surviving warriors were captured and relocated to the the Noxian capital, accused of the crime of inciting rebellion within the empire.
Cast as Reckoners in the arenas of the city, Alistar and his warriors became part of a gruesome, bloodthirsty event called the Fleshing; a twenty-one day festival of non-stop fights within the Reckoners' arenas. Despite telling his warriors to not fight back and sate the bloodlust these Noxian spectators wanted to see, Alistar became the last of his tribe standing by the end of the festival. Afterwards, Alistar was constantly hated and feared by the Noxians, forced to fight and act like the beast they all assumed he was. Driven to madness, Alistar began to accept the bestial nature these Noxians forced on him, losing memories of his own home with every gruesome kill.
One day Ayelia, a servant girl in one of the arenas, visited the infamously savage Reckoner in his cell. He bellowed and charged the bars of his cage, expecting her to fear or goad him like every other visitor he'd had, but Ayelia instead treated him with the first act of kindness Alistar had seen in many years. She returned every day and spoke to him with gentle respect until Alistar managed to reply, revealing the true kindness in him that the Noxian spectators never seen. Through their many talks, Alistar sympathized with Ayelia as he learned that her homeland, much like Alistar's, was also claimed by Noxus. By seeing Alistar's suffering as an enslaved Reckoner, Ayelia had finally been convinced to leave the city and planned to take Alistar with her. While formulating a plan to escape, Alistar's memories of his home began to return to him, remembering the home he wished to return to instead of the awful betrayal by the other tribes.
Ayelia brought Alistar the key to his cell, beginning their escape plan. They hurried to a river where a cargo barge awaited them, ready to sail them away from the city. Unfortunately, Noxian agents burst from the shadows just as they boarded and began to attack. Eager to protect his only living friend Ayelia, Alistar hurled himself directly into battle but became, once again, lost in his own rage and bloodlust. Ayelia constantly called out to Alistar to calm him down and escape with her, but he was too blinded by his rage to hear or notice her calls.
By the time Alistar had slain the attackers, the cargo boat had already left and Ayelia was missing. Now without the boat, Alistar fled south on foot instead in search of Ayelia, fearing she had been captured or killed.
Weeks after Alistar's escape, a political coup lead by the disgraced general Jericho Swain shook the empire to its core, leading to massive reforms in the political structure of Noxus and the culture of the Reckoning arenas. Because of this, the event of Alistar's violent escape from the arenas was mostly forgotten.
Alistar continues to travel alone through Noxian territories as quietly and subtley as he can in fear of being found out for his crimes. In every city, Alistar incites rebellion and fights to protect the people oppressed by the cruel Noxian regime. With every act of kindness he shows the downtrodden of these territories, Alistar hopes to clear the shame he feels from the horrific acts he committed as a Reckoner. In every city Alistar passes through, he asks for Ayelia, continuing his search for the servant girl responsible for freeing him all those years ago.
Alistar is a purple skinned Minotaur with blue tufts of hair, blood red eyes, and large white horns atop his head. He is gargantuan and very muscular even by Minotaur standards, with a notably large torso and giant fists. He wears nothing but a loincloth around his waist and broken chain cuffs around his wrists.
Alistar is a fighter, and his goal is to fight against Noxus in the name of all he has lost and all those that have lost much too. He is angry, wanting Noxus to fall and inciting rebellion in Noxian territories. Despite this, Alistar has a kind heart, and is intent on finding Ayelia at all costs, as she was one of the few people who showed kindness to him.
After being captured and turned into a Reckoner for the arenas of the Noxian capital, Ayelia would visit Alistar in his cage every day as the first person to show the tortured and enslaved Minotaur true kindness. The two would slowly kindle a true friendship, sympathizing with the fact that both of them had lost their homes to the brutal expansions of the Noxian empire. Ayelia and Alistar eventually hatched an escape plan, managing to escape to a nearby cargo boat. Before they could escape, Noxians discovered the two and caused Alistar to enter a brutal rage in order to protect Ayelia, blindly fighting them off as she attempted to calm him down and call him to the now sailing boat. By the time Alistar regained his consciousness, Ayelia was gone along with the boat. Not knowing whether or not she had been killed or captured, Alistar fled southward by foot and, while inciting riots in Noxian territories, continually searches for and asks for Ayelia, intent on finding her.
The Minotaur
By Laurie Goulding , Rachel Harrison
Starring: Alistar
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Save the Celebration
Honor the past, protect the future. Every year, a beast of legend arrives to threaten the Lunar New Year, and every year, a team of heroes is chosen to stand as guardians over the celebration.
Starring: Alistar , Annie , Darius , Fiora , Jarvan IV
Short Story
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Ambessa Medarda is a Noxian [ 1 ] warlord and the estranged mother of Mel Medarda . She also the ex-mentor of the wandering Noxus warrior Rell.
When Ambessa was ten, her father brought her to the aftermath of the Battle of Hildenard to collect weapons from the fallen in exchange for a gold coin each, exposing her to death at the tender age. Even at her young age, she realized death was not just something to be feared but also to be respected. As she grew up, she chose a soldier's life, quickly rising to the ranks to become a general in command of several warbands. She became a mother of her firstborn son, Kino. While she loved him greatly, she realized he would never have the strength of a warrior in his heart.
Not long after the birth of Kino, Ambessa almost met her end in defending her ancestral home of Rokrund. As she lay among the bodies she was discovered by a lone wolf who gave her visions as she drifted near death, which miraculously brought her back to life. [ 2 ] The visions that Ambessa saw that day had strengthened her resolve and ambition: She would bend the world to her will so that any weakness her children might have could not be exploited. When her grandfather, Menelik Medarda, passed away, he had named no heir. Several branches of the family had vied for succession, however they were all outmatched by Ambessa. She vowed to forge a legacy worthy of the Medarda name.
She tried to imbue the same principles in her two known children, particularly in her daughter Mel , whom Ambessa tried to mold into a warrior and leader willing to do whatever is necessary to ensure their survival from a young age. This seemingly proved futile, however, as her son Kino preferred diplomacy and dismissed war as "A failure of statecraft", and Mel adapted his way of thinking, considering war and killing only as a last resort.
Eventually, she sent Mel away from their home to Piltover , pointing out that her sentimentality would work well among the "soft-spined idealists", and would later use the excuse that it was for her to oversee their family's interests in the city. [ 3 ] In truth, she sent her away because she could no longer bear Mel's disapproval of her decisions. [ 4 ]
As an old guard of Boram Darkwill's regime, she disapproves of Swain's rule and his Triferian council, citing his rule is weak. Furthermore, she is known to look down on Darius as she often refers him as a witless brute. Despite this, she had shown to have genuine respect toward Swain and even called him as "a true general" unlike Darkwill. Therefore, it is possible that she seemed to only dislike how he ruled Noxus.
Sometime in the past, she encountered a warrior girl named Rell and was impressed with her fighting capabilities that she decided to take Rell in as a protege and part of her warband. During the battle between Ambessa and her niece, Rell magic surfaced and she helped Ambessa defeated her niece and her forece. Ambessa demanded Rell to kill her niece as a test of loyalty, which Rell complied. However, before Ambessa could officially inducted Rell into her force, Leblanc snatched Rell from her and Ambessa lost her greatest protege back then.
Mel eventually came to power in Piltover as a Councilor and the wealthiest person in the city, [ 5 ] and she would later sponsor the research of Jayce Talis , whose Hextech enterprise revolutionized trade and travel around the world; thus having a hand in Piltover's undeniable progress. [ 6 ]
Apparently too distracted to have been able to do anything at the time, her son Kino was killed by a powerful man who Kino offended. [ 3 ] Ambessa realized that the man was not done with his grudge and would strike again and could have enough resources to potentially overpower the Medarda family. [ 4 ] To aid their victory in a potential war, Ambessa visited Piltover in hopes of getting her hands on weaponized Hextech.
Having heard news of the city's ongoing conflict with Zaun , she tried to convince both Mel and Jayce to finally engage the undercity in war and use his Hextech weapons for it. Mel determinedly refused and convinced the Council to avoid any war-inciting actions as well, but Jayce was swayed enough to attack one of Silco's Shimmer factories with Vi . When Jayce accidentally killed a boy, [ 3 ] however, Jayce completely changed his mind.
Mel confronted her about her manipulation of Jayce and she finally told Mel about the impending conflict with Kino's killer at Noxus. She then asked Mel to let the war happen, after which she would be welcome back home and at her side. Mel would ultimately turn down the offer, taking off her family ring as she agreed to Jayce's proposal of peace with Zaun by granting them their requested independence. [ 4 ]
Ambessa is a muscular, brown-skinned woman with light brown eyes. She has coily hair in varying shades of grey to black, worn loosely above the shoulders. She wears Noxian styled clothing befitting her rank, mostly made up of black and red colours, with metallic silver elements, and a red cloak with black fur worn to one side. She is shown to have numerous battle scars on her face and upper body.
Ambessa is a confident person, showing no shame or emotional weaknesses. Merciless to her enemies, she prefers aggression over passivity due to the way her father brought her up and the Noxian culture she was raised in. Accompanying her ruthlessness is brazen indulgence, freely enjoying the decadence of Piltover and the local cuisines of foreign lands. Eloquent and well-versed, particularly in military history, she is as capable of manipulation as she is capable of violence, so long as it serves her, and her family’s, interests.
Despite her relaxed stance on using violence, Ambessa does not appear to disregard diplomacy entirely, as despite Kino adopting a purely diplomatic philosophy, Kino was not exiled like Mel was. Additionally, Ambessa is selective with her violence, expressing a readiness to kill one if it means avoiding a larger conflict in the future. She is a survivalist above all else, willing to do whatever it takes to protect her clan, and more importantly, her family.
Ambessa is one who respects aggression in any form, either in diplomacy or in war, but she also values cunning and guile, so long as it does not detract from a show of force. Ambessa describes this to Mel as a need for her to embody "both the fox and the wolf". Although one can embody an aspect of one or the other, one cannot succeed in her family without embodying both, but the most atrocious offense to her is a showcase of weakness and ineptitude.
Mel Medarda was exiled from the Medarda Clan after Ambessa accused her of harboring weakness that was unbecoming of the Clan. Although for years it was assumed Ambessa exiled her for that reason alone, it is later claimed by Ambessa that she exiled Mel to prevent her from influencing her ruthless decision making and weakening her; something she could not permit to happen to anyone in her family, including herself.
Ambessa continuously holds Mel to these standards, however, even after Mel's exile, dismissing her emotional outburst and saying she taught her better than to let her emotions run loose. Even so, Ambessa holds a soft spot for Mel with a desire to protect the family and sought to have her rejoin the Medarda Clan after Kino's death.
Although Ambessa was dismissive of Kino's purely diplomatic approach to statecraft, he was not exiled like Mel was, which suggests that Ambessa believes Kino's philosophy isn't wholly wrong, simply incomplete.
When Ambessa delivers the news of Kino's death to Mel, Ambessa shows dismay over his loss, believing she was too distracted to prevent his death from occurring.
Ambessa addresses Elora by name upon arriving to Piltover. Their relationship is unknown, but they are at the very least acquainted with one another.
Ambessa uses Jayce to try and incite war between Piltover and Zaun, and put Jayce into a position to develop Hextech weaponry. Once developed, Ambessa wishes to use them for her Clan to ensure that the Noxian that Kino crossed with doesn't slaughter the rest of the Medarda Family as revenge.
Ambessa uses Jayce and manipulates him into impulsively acting against Zaun, which succeeds. When Mel confronts Ambessa about her manipulation of Jayce, she is indifferent about this fact. Jayce is simply a means to an end.
Rell is Ambessa's former protoge after she takes a liking to her fighting skill and magic. Ambessa sees Rell is not just as an asset but also a daughter she wishes Mel to be. She wishes for Rell to become her successor in case Mel could not or both Rell and Mel could become a powerful sister duo for Ambessa to gain power and take down the Black Rose. After Rell was taken away by the Black Rose, Ambessa hatred toward them even more amplified.
Ambessa believes the Council lacks agency against the Zaunite threat, and allowed the problem to accumulate over years, doing nothing to prevent its advance. Ambessa tells Jayce that the Council is at risk of letting themselves get blindsided by Zaun in an upcoming war, and that he would need to properly prepare for war if they were to avoid this fate.
Despite her great respect toward him in the past, Ambessa detests Swain and sees his regime is not as strong as the old regime of Boram Darkwill. She often refers him as the man with vision but has no foresight.
Despite Darius's achievements within Noxus, Ambessa looks down on Darius and sees him as an arrogant brute with no cunning.
Like with Darius, she looks down on Draven but much more as she refers him as filth and going as far to pity Darius for having a brother like him.
She holds great respect of Samira and hopes to challenge her some day.
She despises Riven and calls her as a pathetic traitor of Noxus.
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Legend claims that Amumu is a lonely and melancholy soul from ancient Shurima , roaming the world in search of a friend. Doomed by an ancient curse to remain alone forever, his touch is death, his affection ruin. Those who claim to have seen him describe a living cadaver, small in stature and wrapped in creeping bandages. Amumu has inspired myths, songs, and folklore told and retold for generations such that it is impossible to separate truth from fiction.
Stories about Amumu have circulated around Shuriman culture for centuries but his true origins are an enigma and the subject of debate. Shurimans have told countless origin stories about Amumu but the validity of these tales is uncertain as nobody can agree on a single story. Some people claim that Amumu was a young undead prince while others claim he's a wandering spirit , but the most likely explanation is that Amumu is actually a Yordle who has embedded himself into Shuriman culture, though even this isn't wholly agreed on.
Because Amumu has been a staple figure in Shuriman culture since ancient times, there are countless different stories that mention him throughout history. These stories vary in many ways but one detail is universally seen throughout all of them; Amumu is a mummy cursed with eternal loneliness due to his deadly touch and forced to eternally wander the desert in search of a friend.
One of the legends about Amumu connected him to the first ruling family of Shurima, claiming that they were struck by a terrible disease that forced Amumu to quarantine in his chambers. Hearing Amumu's weeping through the walls, a servant girl would often visit Amumu and eventually befriended him, bringing courtly news and tales about her mystic grandmother.
One day, the girl brought news that Amumu's eldest brother had died from the illness, making Amumu the official emperor of Shurima. Pitying him for enduring this news alone, the servant girl decided to go into his chambers and comfort him. As Amumu embraced his friend, he realized that his touch had infected her with the same blight that killed his entire family, causing her to die. On the day of her death, the girl's grandmother became enraged and placed a terrible curse on the young emperor, trapping him in a permanent moment of suffering for eternity.
Another tale depicted Amumu as a young and cruel emperor who forced his subjects to worship him like a god. The young emperor sought the legendary Eye of Angor, an artifact believed to grant eternal life whoever gazes at it with an unflinching heart. For years Amumu hunted for the relic, being carried by a host of slaves through dangerous catacombs as they were forced to sacrifice themselves to deadly traps under Amumu's command.
When Amumu, borne by his slaves, finally reached the room containing the Eye of Angor, the emperor immediately rushed in to gaze at the artifact. Seizing their opportunity, the slaves escaped and sealed the doorway, trapping the child emperor in darkness. The young Amumu endured darkness for years to the point of insanity as he clawed at his own skin, covering the wounds with bandages. Amumu's life was extended by the Eye of Angor, allowing him to reflect on his past transgressions, but was cursed with eternal loneliness in the process.
After a series of earthquakes shattered the tomb's foundations and opened its doors, Amumu emerged, now completely wrapped in bandages and seeking redemption for the suffering he caused as emperor.
One of the most peculiar stories of Amumu claim that he was the first and last Yordle ruler of Shurima. Amumu, being a firm believer in the goodness of the human heart, sought to prove his point and swore an oath to live as a beggar until he made one true friend, convinced that his people would rally to help him. Despite thousands passing him by however, nobody extended a helping hand to the impoverished Amumu as he eventually died of a broken heart. Some say that the Yordle did not truly die however, believing that he continues to wander the desert for eternity, hoping to find someone who can restore his faith in humanity.
The legends of Amumu still endure in modern Shurima, even after the death of the last emperor Azir . It's widely believed that Amumu still wanders the desert as his cries echo through the winds while he despairs over his inability to find friendship. Some claim that they have actually encountered the mummy, stating that his very presence brings death and illness at the touch. A song known throughout Valoran as The Curse of the Sad Mummy details Amumu's loneliness as he travels the world in search of a friend. By the end of the song, it's said that Amumu's fragile soul couldn't bear the curse anymore as he unleashed a destructive tantrum, destroying the town as he was tragically left alone once again. [ 1 ]
Though its unclear what Amumu is looking for, whether it's redemption, companionship or just a simple act of kindness towards him, his quest remains unfulfilled as he continues to shamble around the sands aimlessly.
Though many still claim to encounter Amumu to this day, one storyteller named Khaldun stated that he stumbled upon Amumu's tomb after it cracked open during an earthquake. Traversing the tomb, he saw wall carvings that detailed Amumu's life with images depicting a young boy sitting atop the Shuriman Sun Disc and another carving depicting his deathbed being surrounded by people either mourning or celebrating.
After hearing the wails of what he thought was a lost child, he stumbled upon puddles of salt water , which he thought was impossible to find so deep underneath the deserts, and eventually Amumu, who hid himself in the shadows and refused to come out. Khaldun felt pity for him and asked if he was lost while Amumu simply replied that he was unsure of where he was or how he got there, having lost his memory over the thousands of years. Khaldun approached closer to comfort him until he realized that the young boy was in fact a mummy. As Amumu's bandaged hand grasped onto Khaldun's arm, he asked if he could be his friend while Khaldun looked at his arm in horror, watching it rapidly decompose to the point of completely falling off.
Khaldun quickly fled the tomb out of fear, leaving it open and supposedly releasing Amumu to wander the desert. Though the validity of this story is in question, Khaldun lived to tell this story to his grandchildren as an explanation to why he is missing an arm. [ 2 ]
Amumu is short in stature, about the size of a young child and completely covered head to toe in dark green bandages. He has a permanently despaired facial expression as his yellow eyes constantly tear up as he cries.
Because of his curse, Amumu is doomed to an eternity of anguish, despair and loneliness. Because of his deadly touch, Amumu is incapable of embracing or befriending other people, forced to wander the deserts in a constant search for a true friend and wailing as he does so.
Though the validity of his tale is unclear, an old storyteller named Khaldun claims to his grandchildren that he survived an encounter with Amumu, having delved into his tomb and accidentally left it open once he escaped. According to Khaldun, Amumu's cursed touch withered away his arm with decay, being the reason behind his missing arm to this day. [ 2 ]
The Sad Mummy
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Amumu
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Greed and Tears
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The gods were angry, and shook the land. Cracks rent the earth,' said old Khaldun, his crag-featured face lit by firelight. 'It was into one of these fissures that a young man ventured. He found an opening; the entrance to a tomb, hidden for the Jackal knows how long. The man had little ones to feed and a wife to please, and so he ventured in, lured by opportunity.'
Music Video
The Curse of the Sad Mummy
By Christian Linke
Every child in Valoran has heard the tale before. About the cursed mummy boy who felt his heart no more.
Mentioned: Kindred
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Cupcakes 4 Heartaches
By Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to collect ingredients for Caitlyn's top secret cupcake recipe!
Starring: Amumu , Caitlyn , Vi
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Anivia is a benevolent winged spirit who endures endless cycles of life, death, and rebirth to protect the Freljord. A demigod born of unforgiving ice and bitter winds, she wields those elemental powers to thwart any who dare disturb her homeland. Anivia guides and protects the tribes of the harsh north, who revere her as a symbol of hope, and a portent of great change. She fights with every ounce of her being, knowing that through her sacrifice, her memory will endure, and she will be reborn into a new tomorrow.
Anivia is an ancient demi-god who represents the eternal cycle of life, death, rebirth and the changing of the seasons. She, along with her many siblings, sprung from Runeterra during its formation and together they began to forge the lands of the Vorrijaard itself. Anivia's birth in particular is believed to have brought the first winters into the world, with some even claiming she is responsible for creating True Ice .
When the first mortals arrived in the ancient Vorrijaard, Anivia welcomed them willingly. Witnessing their fragility to the cold weather, she sheltered and guided them to secluded valleys where they would establish their own tribal communities and harden themselves to the elements. While nurturing and watching over these tribes, the mortals would come to revere and worship her and her siblings as gods. Legends state that, though she hoped that these tribes would remain united, blood-feuds and infighting made them susceptible to a massive invasion from a greedy king in the south who marched through the mountains seeking to claim the wild magic of the Vorrijaard for himself. Anivia, angered by the outsiders, summoned a massive snowstorm that lasted a century, obliterating the ancient army.
A young mortal woman named Lissandra , alongside her two sisters Avarosa and Serylda, sought to harness the magics of the world and claim dominion over the entire Vorrijaard. In order to do so, each sister scoured the world for ancient powers to harness with Lissandra seeking to tame the wild magic of the land itself. [ 1 ] Anivia's brothers Valhir and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). however grew angered by Lissandra's defiance and sought to destroy the three sisters for their transgressions. Anivia however, alongside her other siblings, was more inclined to work with the sisters rather than declare a war. [ 2 ]
After the eldest sister Lissandra made a pact with otherworldly masters , these three sisters would form a mighty alliance and lead a horde of warriors called the Iceborn . These powerful mortals were attuned to elemental magics of the ice, capable of wielding and utilizing the True Ice substance and practically immune to the frigid cold of the Vorrijaard, now called the Freljord . [ 1 ]
As Lissandra and her sisters gained power and marched with their armies, they slowly erased the influences of the Freljordian demi-gods in favor of venerating the Three Sisters as goddesses, affecting the worship of Anivia and her siblings over time.
It's believed that even death cannot touch Anivia herself, as many stories tell of how she had been struck down a handful of times throughout history, always followed by a magnificent rebirth—for as long as the Freljord exists, her soul remains immortal. Each rebirth may take hundreds or thousands of years before she rises again, but they always coincide with the dawn of a new era for the Freljord, causing her appearance to be both a wondrous blessing as well as an omen of great or terrible changes on the horizon.
Legend has it that Anivia once sacrificed herself against a march of towering Balestriders , colossal and ancient creatures now corrupted by the influence of Lissandra. [ 3 ] Though she was incapable of truly slaying these creatures, she instead plunged into the ice beneath their feet and shattered her own body, entombing them beneath the ice and snow.
Anivia is ancient enough to have witnessed countless mortal civilizations and is highly revered to by many tribal communities of the Freljord. Many stories and legends have been told in Anivia's honor, cementing her as a staple for most of Freljordian mythology and culture.
One of the oldest stories of Anivia tells of how her brother Ornn felled one of her favorite perching trees to build his house the Horn Hall. Annoyed by this, Anivia sought to prank her brother by tickling his nose with her feathers as he slept, causing him to sneeze out a gout of flame and setting his bedsheets on fire. Anivia, panicked by the blaze of fire building in the wooden house, flapped her wings to fly away and accidentally stoked the fire even hotter within the dry Freljordian air, causing all of Horn Hall to light ablaze. Ornn woke up on top of a pile of ashes in a bad mood, feeling disturbed in his sleep but unaware of the prank Anivia did on him, something she hasn't told him to this day. [ 4 ]
The nomadic Notai highly revere Anivia, traveling along the waves of frost believed to spill from Anivia's massive wings. [ 5 ] Well known for their songs and storytelling, the Notai have many songs that detail Anivia's magnificent birth; bursting from a giant egg of ice and hurling tiny shards into the sky to eventually fall as snow.
Another tribe, called the Mourncrow, have sagas telling how the frigid winds and blizzards that scour the Freljord actually originate from the first beats of Anivia's wings when she first birthed into the world.
The Avarosan tribe have a legend about an Iceborn warmother named Ulla Shatter-Spear, who was favored by Anivia herself for saving a young Hawk from a Rimefang Wolf . Throughout Ulla's life, Anivia protected her from harm until she finally fell in battle after witnessing a hundred winters. After her death, Ulla's soul was welcomed by Anivia herself with wings spread wide.
Anivia has reemerged from her egg once more, marking the start of a new era for the Freljord and bringing great change. She most recently appeared before Ashe , who continued her deceased mother Grena's search for the mythical Throne of Avarosa. Ashe, now the new warmother of the Avarosan tribe, is seen by Anivia as the one who can finally reunite the tribes of the Freljord and thus has somewhat gained the favor of the Cryophoenix. [ 6 ]
With Anivia's return to the Freljord, more and more shamans and spirit walkers of the old demi-gods feel her presence and the new era she heralds to the Freljord, though they are unsure of what great threat she has come to face.
Anivia is massive eagle-like creature composed entirely of crystalline blue ice. She also has a single fuchsia crystal on her forehead. Her egg form is an icy globe which glows with white magic and appears swaddled in a nest of icy spikes.
Revered by both the Notai and the Yeti of old, Anivia is seen as a benevolent guardian deity. In Freljordian legends, she has noteably be an advocate for forgiveness and unity among all of the Freljord's people. The Notai and the Yeti have been called her "children" by her brothers before, hinting at her more nurturing nature. She also advocates diplomacy before war, as seen when she advises her kin to work together with the Three Sisters.
While she is a peaceful being, she is not a pacifist. She has notably defended the Freljord from outside forces like Southerners who seek to claim the Vorrijaard as their own as well as Voidborn and the Watchers that created them, who threaten Runeterra itself. While she is unable to die, she is willing to sacrifice herself in order to save the Freljord from annihilation.
Anivia is one of the Freljordian demi-gods responsible for creating and forging the very land itself. All of the gods are siblings with one another, with Anivia being among one of the older ones. Anivia has not shown any true ill will to any of her fellow gods and is related to deities such as the Seal Sister and other currently unnamed spirits.
Ornn is the eldest of the Freljordian demi-gods, being the god of the forge and magma. Ornn doesn't socialize with his siblings very much but hasn't shown any ill will towards Anivia. However, there are legends within the Freljord that tell of how Anivia, after Ornn felled her favorite perching tree, pulled a prank on Ornn in his sleep, causing him to sneeze a gout of flame and burn his house down. The legend states that he woke up in a grumpy mood, unaware of what Anivia had done. [ 4 ]
The mighty Volibear, also known as Valhir , is the Freljordian demi-god of storms and warfare. Volibear interacted with Anivia when he called his siblings together to declare war on the ice witch Lissandra . Many of the gods, especially Anivia, actually denied Volibear's proposal of war and was more inclined to cooperate with the mortals. [ 2 ] Despite this, and despite his violent nature, Volibear actually highly respects Anivia as a goddess.
Though it's unsure whether or not Anivia has personally interacted with Lissandra, she is the one who moved to make peace with her instead of declaring war like her brother Volibear proposed. Anivia felt the ice witch's presence when she rallied her army of Iceborn to claim dominion over the Freljord, as followers of the old gods began to die out in her crusade to wipe out all of their worshippers. [ 1 ]
Anivia hasn't personally interacted with Ashe, but she did appear before her at the mythical Avarosa's Throne, where Ashe found her signature True Ice bow. [ 6 ] Recently, word has spread that Ashe has actually gained the favor of Anivia herself as she sees in Ashe a way to truly reunite the Freljord.
The Notai tribe highly revere Anivia in particular, having many stories and songs passed down for generations that speak of her many deeds and detailing her magnificent birth and rebirth within the world. They are nomadic and travel by following wherever the snow may fall, traveling along the waves of frost believed to fall off of Anivia's wings as she flies. [ 5 ]
Nunu hasn't personally met Anivia but was born within the Notai tribe where he heard many stories and songs about her, particularly from his mom Layka. [ 5 ]
As the most powerful spirit walker in the Freljord, Udyr is easily capable of channeling the powers of all the Freljordian spirits including Anivia herself. [ 7 ] When channeling Anivia, Udyr enters his Storm Stance , gaining the ice magic of the Cryophoenix herself.
The Cryophoenix
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Anivia
Mentioned: Ashe
Short Story
Vrynna gritted her teeth to stop them from chattering and forced herself on, trudging through the thick snow.
Starring: Vrynna
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Volibear
Frozen Hearts
By David Slagle
“Mom… can I ask you a question?”
Starring: Layka , Nunu
Mentioned: Anivia
Shield of Remembrance
Quinn ran through the forest, moving softly and swiftly.
Starring: Dalin , Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Anivia , Garen , Genevieve , Sylas , Tianna
Silence for the Damned
By Odin Austin Shafer
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
I wake up suddenly, like a story that starts in the middle of the action.
Starring: Nunu , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Trundle
The Boy and His Yeti
Mentioned: Anivia , Layka , Lissandra
Short Story • 15 Minute Read
The Lost Tales of Ornn
By Matthew Dunn
I have never seen the forgotten god. My grandmother told me these tales, but she never saw the forgotten god either—nor did her grandmother before her, or hers before her, a thousand times over. His legends endure only around crackling fires and meals of roasted fish. The further back we trace our ancestors, the truer the tales become.
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Volibear
The Relentless Storm
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné , Rayla Heide
Starring: Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Ornn , Rhond
The Witch Between Worlds
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Aurora
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Warmother: Issue 2
By Odin Austin Shafer , Nina Vakueva
Faced with impossible odds, Ashe and her tribe must decide what is worth dying for.
Starring: Ashe , Grena , Maalcrom , Yrael
Mentioned: Anivia , Helnr , Lissandra
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Wings of Revelry
Battling in a World of Gray... Or Partying All Day? Sound, Color and Ecstasy on the Wings of Revelry!
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Nunu & Willump: Issue 4
By Ian St. Martin
This comic is an alternate/inspired story of how Nunu and Willump met.
Starring: Nunu , Willump , Ymaruq
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Dangerous, yet disarmingly precocious, Annie is a child mage with immense pyrokinetic power. Even in the shadows of the mountains north of Noxus , she is a magical outlier. Her natural affinity for fire manifested early in life through unpredictable, emotional outbursts, though she eventually learned to control these tricks. Her favorite includes the summoning of her beloved teddy bear, Tibbers , as a fiery beast hellbent on destruction. Lost in the perpetual innocence of childhood, Annie wanders the dark forests, always looking for someone to play with.
Annie was born to Gregori Hastur and Amoline Kiosar , two mages that fled the capital city of Noxus due to their uncertainty of Boram Darkwill's rule. Unbeknownst to Gregori, Amoline was actually a runaway from the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , a school run by the Black Rose where she was experimentally fused with a Demon named Tybaulk . [ 1 ]
The couple made a home in the Ironspike Mountains and Amolie became pregnant. In anticipation for her child's birth, Amoline crafted a stuffed teddy bear based off of the mysterious shadow bears rumored to roam the lands around them. As she applied finishing touches to the toy, Amoline suddenly went into labor and gave birth to Annie.
As a newborn, Annie was given the teddy bear that her mother made for her. When Annie was a toddler, she and her father got ill with a fever that was so hot that Amoline couldn't even touch her. Amoline tried using ice water from the river to ease her daughter's fever but became desperate, resorting to using the powers of the demon Tybaulk to save her. By infusing the demon into Annie's stuffed bear, Annie's illness was magically cured at the cost of Amoline's own life. Gregori woke up the next day, Annie in her crib, cured of her fever and playing with her stuffed bear she now named Tibbers . Amoline however was nowhere to be seen.
Growing up, Annie's latent magical abilities began to manifest, allowing her to manipulate the flames of the fireplace without her father noticing. Annie naïvely believed that her mother would return one day, and could often be found sitting by the fireplace in her mother's rocking chair and clutching Tibbers tightly while waiting for her mother's return.
Crayon drawings depicting Tibbers and Annie's birth mom Amoline.
As more people began settling around the Ironspike Mountains, Gregori fell in love with one of these settlers named Leanna , who had a daughter of her own named Daisy . Gregori soon married Leanna and the two families joined together, making Leanna Annie's new step-mother. Leanna began to grow disturbed by Annie, often finding her morbid crayon drawings depicting Amoline and Tibbers. Daisy on the other hand grew close with Annie as sisters, but grew terrified of Tibbers and Annie's fire magic, which often sparked from her short temper.
Annie and Daisy chasing a Faerie across a river.
While playing outside, the two chased a Faerie around the forest and followed it to a river. Though Annie protested against chasing it across the river, Daisy began skipping on stones to reach the Faerie, losing her balance and slipping. As the waters started to take Daisy, Annie reached out with her bear and allowed her step-sister to grab on. As Daisy held on, Annie's magical abilities began to flare up as Tibbers glowed with a light fire. Frightened by Annie's magic, Daisy panicked and let go of Tibbers, drowning in the river while Annie watched helplessly.
Mourning the death of her step-sister, Annie overheard Leanna as she blamed Annie and called her a monster to Gregori's face. Overwhelmed with grief and emotion, Annie ran to her room and sobbed as she slowly lost control of her magic, setting her room on fire. Soon the entire house caught aflame as Gregori ran into his daughter's room and carried her out of the burning house. As the house began to collapse, some rubble from the ceiling began to fall, forcing Gregori to throw Annie to safety as he sacrificed himself to save her, getting crushed to death by the falling rubble.
Annie standing on top of the ashes of her house, orphaned and clutching Tibbers.
As the whole house was in ashes, Leanna violently expressed her spite towards Annie, vocally blaming her for everything. As Leanna snatched Tibbers away from Annie, she tried to tear the bear apart out of anger, triggering Annie's full rage as she manifested the demonic Tybaulk by animating her teddy bear for the first time, viciously tearing Leanna into pieces. Now, completely alone, traumatized and orphaned, Annie wandered off into the countryside with only her bear Tibbers to keep her company. [ 2 ]
Annie wandered the northern parts of Noxus while avoiding the capital city, believing that most city Noxians would be similar to her hated step-mother. Occasionally on her travels, Annie would use her adorable exterior to convince a family to take her in and care for her, which would usually end in a fire and death when anyone tries to separate Annie from her stuffed bear. At some point, Annie was adopted by a family who gave her a new set of clothes; her signature pink and purple outfit along with her horned tiara. It's unknown what happened to them, but they are presumed to have been killed by Annie's uncontrollable fire magic.
At some point, Annie ended up at a tavern run by a bartender named Marcin. Ominously, Annie skipped through the tavern doors and asked Marcin for a cup of milk, which Marcin was confused by but complied anyway. As he got the girl a cup of milk, Annie paid with a full bag of coins that was more than necessary for payment. A nearby bounty hunter overheard and caught glimpse of the large sum of gold, demanding to know where she found so much money. As the bounty hunter continued to provoke the young girl, Annie unleashed Tibbers, who immediately shredded the man apart and set the tavern on fire. Annie happily thanked the bartender before walking out as the entire structure crumbled into ashes. [ 3 ]
After hearing rumors about a girl with fire magic roaming the northern Ironspike Mountains, the Ravenbloom Conservatory sent a scout named Fynn Retrick to investigate. Fynn, who personally knew Amoline in the past, found Annie and immediately recognized her as Amoline's daughter. Having been sent to retrieve the demon Tybaulk and realizing what Amoline had done with Annie, Fynn brought Annie back to the school with him to be enrolled as their newest student. [ 4 ]
In the conservatory, Annie befriended most of her classmates, all of whom were youths wielding magical abilities. This included an Oovi-Kat vastaya named Daani , a boy named Sydell and a prodigy student named Faye . Annie showed a powerful talent for fire magic to the school and became extremely important due to the fact that she was directly linked to Tybaulk, an important asset that the school wished to regain control of. Annie was a temperamental and mischievous student, as her misbehavior proved too difficult for the faculty staff to control and discipline. [ 5 ] Annie's temper eventually got the best of her as she summoned the full force of Tibbers and set the entire school on fire, forcing everybody to evacuate as the academy burned to ashes. [ 6 ]
She is a young girl described with a bright-red hair and brilliants green eyes. She wears a infant gothic, with a pink and purple palette. She wears a horned tiara, who gives her the impression of an imp, and has a leather bag on her back. She seems to always carry a innocent and malicious face.
Annie is childish and reckless, putting on a display of innocence while showing an unsettling sense of humor at times. She is very protective of Tibbers, seeing him as her best friend, and will not hesitate to animate him to attack whomever tries to harm her or snatches him from her. She is shown to have an indomitable will which impressed Tybaulk (the demon within Tibbers) enough to ally with her.
Tybaulk, known to Annie as 'Tibbers,' is the fire demon trapped within her stuffed teddy bear. Annie's mother Amoline initially contained Tybaulk within her own body, until she eventually placed him within Annie's teddy bear while magically curing her daughter's sudden illness.
Tibbers is Annie's best friend and last companion due to the death of her entire family. Because her teddy bear is the only living piece of Annie's mother she has left, she is extremely fond of him and becomes enraged when someone tries to hurt or separate the two. Tybaulk on the other hand doesn't care much for Annie and serves only as an extension of her powers. However, he is impressed by her strong will as she is the first mortal he's met that has been capable of taming him. [ 7 ]
Gregori was the loving father of Annie, nicknaming her 'Firefly' and raising her for most of her life after Amoline's sudden disappearance. After Gregori remarried, his love for Annie never faltered and he acted as the mediator between Annie and her new stepmother Leanna, who often came to odds with his daughter due to being disturbed by her abilities and strange tendencies. When the house burned down because of Annie's flames, Gregori remained concerned for his daughter's safety, ultimately sacrificing his own life to bring her to safety.
Amoline was Annie's birth mother and had created Tibbers as a gift to her when she was born, having gone into labor with Annie while stitching the last button eye on the stuffed bear. When Annie gained a terrible fever, Amoline grew desparate to save her daughter from the illness and resorted to infusing her daughter with the powers of the demon Tybaulk to save her, sacrificing her own life and mysteriously disappearing in the process.
After Amoline's disappearance, Annie held on hope that her mother would one day return, constantly waiting for her at the fireplace while drawing pictures of her mother. Her obsession with her mother would grow disturbing however, such as one crayon drawing depicting her mother being buried underground implying she's aware that she most likely passed away. Tibbers is the last remaining piece of Amoline that Annie has left, causing her to be deeply connected to the stuffed bear to the point that anyone attempting to separate them would cause Annie's rageful outbursts.
Daisy was Annie's stepsister, being the daughter of Leanna. Because the two were similar in age, they often got along and played together, but Daisy became frightened of Annie's temper and fiery powers. She grew a fear of Tibbers due to the fact that, at one point, Annie ignited Tibbers when Daisy attempted to take him to play a game.
One fateful day, the two playfully followed a faerie as it flew across a river with dangerously rushing waters. While chasing the faerie, Daisy slipped on a wet rock and struggled to hang on as the powerful currents took hold of her. Annie tried to save Daisy by reaching out to her with Tibbers, unwillingly heating the stuffed bear with fire because of her overwhelming emotions. Daisy, terrified of the toy bear, lost her grip and drowned in the river as Annie watched, horrified. Shortly after, Daisy's mother Leanna vocally blamed Annie for Daisy's death, causing Annie to become overwhelmed with guilt and sadness as she grieved her stepsister's death.
Leanna is a colonist in the Ironspike Mountains who fell in love and married Gregori Hastur, becoming Annie's stepmother. Annie's continuous obsession for her birth mother Amoline immediately caused a rift between her and Leanna, who in turn grew disturbed by Annie's strange behaviors especially after finding her crayon drawings of Amoline.
Their troubled relationship grew as Annie played with Leanna's daughter Daisy, who she would try to protect from Annie due to her temper and fiery magic. After Daisy's tragic death in the river, Leanna told her husband that she completely blamed Annie for her daughter's death, calling her a monster. As Annie overheard Leanna, she became overwhelmed with grief and set the house ablaze without control of her powers, ultimately leading to Gregori's death as he sacrificed himself to save her from the house fire.
Atop the ashes of the house, Leanna violently lashed out at Annie, blaming her for everything and stating that she took everything from her. In anger, she snatched Tibbers out of the hands of a grieving Annie and attempted to rip him apart out of anger, causing Annie to manifest Tibbers as he viciously tore Leanna to shreds.
Annie's birth mother, Amoline, was a former student of the Ravenbloom Conservatory but ran away to the northern parts of Noxus after being infused with the demon Tybaulk. The headmistress of the school, Headmistress Telsi , sent a scout named Fynn Retrick to locate Amoline and retrieve the demon infused with her body. Fynn instead returned with Annie, who they instantly recognized as Amoline's daughter and that she was magically infused with Tybaulk.
In the school, Annie was incredibly powerful with her magic considering her young age and lack of training. However, most of the school faculty feared her due to her temper and mischievous, claiming that her misbehaviors made her impossible to teach. Eventually, Annie summoned Tibbers in the school, burning the entire building to ashes as she joyfully skipped away.
Daani is one of Annie's classmates in the Ravenbloom Conservatory, being a magically talented Oovi-Kat vastaya . He is incredibly playful with Annie and friendly with her, with Annie even considering him her 'second bestfriend.' Daani also seems curious about Tibbers, mostly due to his magical ability to see magical auras and noting that he's never seen a powerful aura around a stuffed bear before.
Sydell Kythera is one of Annie's classmates in the Ravenbloom Conservatory, magically gifted with a connection to spiders such as his pet spider named Fang . The two seem to get along, with Sydell being mischievous delinquent in the school and bonding with Annie over their troublemaking. Though Sydell would rather do things like skip classes, Annie would state that she thinks it'd be more fun to burn the entire school down. Annie calls Sydell Mr. Kythera but often has trouble pronouncing his last name.
Faye is a prodigy within the Ravenbloom Conservatory and one of Annie's classmates. Wielding powerful telekinetic abilities, she is favored by Headmistress Telsi, who utilizes Faye to influence the students when they become too unruly for the school faculty to control.
When Annie sparred with Faye at the school's training grounds, Faye became interested in her immense power and took a liking to her. Possibly under the orders of the headmistress, Faye would attempt to convince Annie to further her training and expand her powers.
Though LeBlanc has never met Annie in person, she runs the Black Rose , a secret society within Noxus that truly runs many schools such as the Ravenbloom Conservatory. In this school in particular, the Black Rose experimented with demons, harnessing their powers and infusing one of them within Annie's mother Amoline. When Amoline went missing, it's assumed that the Black Rose are the ones who issued the orders to retrieve both her and their experimented demon.
Annie has never met Mordekaiser, but its believed that Tybaulk had initially been enslaved by him during his vicious reign over Noxus, before being harnessed by the Black Rose in the Ravenbloom Conservatory.
The Dark Child
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Annie , Tibbers
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Daisy Hastur , Gregori Hastur , Leanna Hastur
Annie: Origins
Discover the spark that set off the Dark Child's fire.
Starring: Annie , Daisy Hastur , Gregori Hastur , Leanna Hastur , Tibbers
Short Story
By Michael Yichao
There's one thing you should remember about little Annie: she's never alone. Isn't that right, Tibbers?
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Save the Celebration
Honor the past, protect the future. Every year, a beast of legend arrives to threaten the Lunar New Year, and every year, a team of heroes is chosen to stand as guardians over the celebration.
Starring: Alistar , Annie , Darius , Fiora , Jarvan IV
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Annie, the Dark Child
Original Annie
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Emerging from moonlight’s shadow with weapons drawn, Aphelios kills the enemies of his faith in brooding silence—speaking only through the certainty of his aim, and the firing of each gun. Though fueled by a poison that renders him mute, he is guided by his sister Alune in her distant temple sanctuary from where she pushes an arsenal of moonstone weapons into his hands. For as long as the moon shines overhead, Aphelios will never be alone.
Aphelios and Alune were twins born to the Lunari during a lunar convergence; when the moon of the Spirit Realm eclipsed the physical moon. Because of the significance of their birth on a significant lunar event, the twins were celebrated as children of destiny. Growing up as loyal zealots of the Lunari faith, the two embraced the night and hid in the shadows, away from the oppressive Solari that ruled them as heretics.
Mirroring the two moons that marked their births, Aphelios trained tirelessly with mystical moonstone blades, becoming physically strong as a symbol of the physical moon. Throughout his rigorous training he only truly bonded with his twin sister Alune, who was gifted magically and trained to be a seer as a symbol of the spiritual moon, using her magic to reveal hidden paths and truths using the light of the moon.
Eventually, Alune's training would require her to leave the Lunari temple that the two had been raised in, causing Aphelios to separate from his sister more often. Saddened by his sister's increasing absence and desperate for purpose, Aphelios underwent a ceremonial journey in order to discover his pathway in life, or his orbit , as the Lunari call it. On his religious journey, Aphelios discovered a pool full of poisonous noctum flowers hidden in a cave. These rare flowers bloomed beneath the water's surface, allowing the poison to be distilled into a liquid that, if consumed, was thought to open one's mind to the power of the moon. Drinking the noctum's essence as part of his ceremonial journey, Aphelios felt a pain so intense that his entire body became numb, allowing Aphelios's body to be completely immune to pain. However, Aphelios's vocal cords would tighten up and render him almost completely mute while under the influence of the noctum essence.
Not long after completing his journey, an ancient Lunari fortress called the Marus Omegnum began to phase in from the Spirit Realm; an event that hasn't occurred in centuries. Lunari from all over Targon gathered to the location of the ancient temple, hoping to witness the event as a sign of a new era for the Lunari and a shifting of power in the cosmos. Traditionally, the Marus Omegnum would open up to a magically gifted individual to occupy it every time it phased into existence, with this year's chosen occupant being Alune. Aphelios, to the Lunari's surprise, personally requested to witness the event and see his sister move on to the spiritual fortress.
Aphelios's ceremonial bracelet on a Lunari pedestal.
As the Marus Omegnum phased into reality under a veil of moonlight, the oppressive Solari discovered the gathered Lunari and initiated an ambush to purge them. Aphelios fought bravely to protect his people but got defeated, left with his moonstone blades shattered and reaching towards the noctum flower he retrieved from his journey. As Alune rushed into the temple, she reached the heart of the fortress while Aphelios consumed the noctum flower at the same time. As Alune's magical abilities were amplified within the spiritual fortress, Aphelios found he was capable of feeling his sister's powers embrace him, hearing her voice as she materialized a new moonstone weapon in his hand. Within the Marus Omegnum, Alune's powers would be magnified and allowed her to project her magic anywhere in the world as long as it found a focus-in this case being the noctum poison coursing through Aphelios's veins. Using her newly amplified powers, Alune pushed both herself and the temple back into the spirit realm while Aphelios fought off the Solari with a new arsenal of moonstone weapons .
By using the poisonous noctum, Aphelios found he could hollow himself out by numbing his body, becoming a living conduit for his sister's lunar magic. Alune on the other hand would remain alone within the spiritual fortress, guiding her brother from afar, seeing through his eyes and providing him with his mystical arsenal. Their souls were simultaneously close yet realms apart, converging into something they couldn't wholly understand. Now realizing their true destinies, the twins became the weapon that the Lunari needed; an agent to protect them in the newly shifting power balance of Targon between the Solari and Lunari.
Aphelios & Alune preparing to assassinate a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). with Severum .
In order to protect the faithful Lunari from oppression, the twins would go on many missions together, combining their newfound abilities as Aphelios's assassin training was complimented by Alune's guidance and magical assistance. Over the course of their many missions, Alune would perfect the arsenal of weapons she provided her brother; each weapon being uniquely tied to a spiritual creature within the Marus Omegnum. [ 1 ] On most of their missions, Aphelios would be sent by his sister to assassinate many Solari targets that threatened their people. One of these targets would be a talented Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). who enchanted Solari weapons with the power of the sun, who Aphelios would assassinate under the cover of night. [ 2 ]
Aphelios & Alune communing with one another while on a mission.
While preparing in a cave temple for a mission, Aphelios felt his sister comforting him from the spirit realm, sharing his senses and sending him visions of both the past and of his next target: a mysterious barbarian from outside of Mount Targon. After drinking the poisonous noctum flower and numbing his body, he felt Alune's presence as she summoned Gravitum in his hands.
Aphelios then emerged from the cave and scaled the mountain, guided by his sister and armed with his new gravity cannon, he drew floating islands towards himself. After finally reaching his destination at the side of the mountain, Aphelios witnessed a group of Solari warriors infamously known as Burning Ones surrounding the same outsider he saw in his visions. After successfully killing the Solari with Severum and Crescendum , the barbarian outsider thanked Aphelios for saving him from the Solari warriors. Aphelios, though unwillingly, was forced to kill the man as part of his mission to retrieve a mysterious scimitar stolen by the barbarian.
After fully realizing what the weapon was, Alune stated that the scimitar's owner was fleeing from something-- though unsure of what. They knew that their next mission was to locate her and bring her back to the Lunari people. Aphelios, intent on completing his mission, walked into the night with the crescent blade in hand. [ 3 ]
Aphelios is a thin man with pale skin and dark hair. He wears elegant, sacred clothing with large shoulders and a deep collar with a distinctive palette of black, gray and turquoise. Hanging around his neck is a notable bright scarf made of a very silky, turquoise material etched with markings of the Lunari . The most distinctive ornament he has is the Targonian gold necklace with the symbol of the moon on it hanging below his neck. Aphelios's face has markings and makeup resembling more moon iconography that is common with the Lunari faith, most notably a circular marking across his whole face that correlates with the markings on his sister's face as well
Aphelios is an incredibly enigmatic person, but he is unwaveringly faithful to his people and protective of his only true bond; his twin sister. In the past, he was an extreme loner and rarely engaged in any social interactions or events with anyone other than his twin sister Alune . After being separated, Aphelios grew so sorrowful and purposeless that he embarked on a spiritual journey to find his own orbit in the universe, leading to the discovery of the noctum flowers .
After becoming an honored agent for the Lunari , Aphelios remained extremely faithful and eternally loyal to not only his sister but to his Lunari faith as well, following its beliefs almost blindingly. Though he mourns the pain he endures and causes in his duties, he is comforted by his sister and reminded that everything he must do is in service to protecting his people from the oppressions of the Solari .
Aphelios and his twin sister were born within the Lunari faith during a rare convergence of the physical and spiritual moons, marking their births as significant and hailing them as children of destiny. Aphelios was a very devote follower to the Lunari, going through gruesome assassination training in his hope to protect them when threats against his people would arise. Despite this, he was infamously known for almost never socializing with anyone other than his sister.
After the arrival of the Marus Omegnum , a major power shift from the heavens has begun to occur and caused an arising conflict between the Lunari and the rivaling Solari . Communing with his sister from the spirit realm and equipped with an arsenal of moonstone weapons, Aphelios now faithfully serves as the weapon to protect the Lunari, assassinating key targets and defending his people from dangers.
Alune and Aphelios share a profound and intimate bond as twin siblings, born during the convergence of the physical and spiritual moons within the Lunari faith. Their connection is rooted in their birth's significance and their subsequent training in separate disciplines that symbolize these twin moons. While Aphelios specialized in the art of assassination, honing his skills in stealth and combat, Alune devoted herself to mastering her magical talents as a seer.
Despite their divergent paths, Aphelios found solace and companionship almost exclusively in his twin sister. The depth of their relationship was such that when Alune's training required her to leave the temple and separate from her brother, Aphelios was left without a purpose, embarking on a spiritual journey to find his orbit, ultimately leading to his discovery of the noctum flowers.
When the Marus Omegnum manifested in the physical realm for the first time in centuries, Alune was chosen to inhabit it. Aphelios, who rarely attended anything at all in his typical loneliness, personally requested to attend the event and witness his sister passing into the spirit realm. Once the Solari discovered the gathered Lunari and attacked, the twins were forced to act fast and combined their abilities together. Aphelios drank the essence of the poisonous noctum and willingly became a conduit for Alune's enhanced magic from within the Marus Omegnum. Since then, the two work in unison as faithful agents to the Lunari as Aphelios, utilizing his combat training, carries out physical missions, while Alune guides him and provides him with his diverse arsenal.
Although the twins exist in separate realms, they can only truly come together when Aphelios consumes the poisonous noctum, rendering himself mute and numbing his senses. In this state, Alune can spiritually project herself to commune with her brother while they share each other's thoughts, feelings, and senses. However, the bittersweet consequence is that Alune can never physically be in Aphelios's presence and Aphelios is unable to verbally communicate with her due to being mute in the process. Their bond is a paradox of immense closeness and profound distance. They mourn the circumstances that necessitate their reunion, as Aphelios sacrifices his physicality to allow Alune to commune with him, while Alune grieves over the pain Aphelios endures on his missions, dedicating herself entirely to protecting him.
Though Aphelios has never met Diana in person, she is the current Aspect of the Moon, serving as a physical embodiment of the deity that the Lunari pray to.
Currently, Alune has been granted visions that require her and Aphelios to seek out and locate Diana for an unknown reason. On their most recent mission, Aphelios managed to locate Diana's crescent blade, which had been left on the mountain and in the hands of a barbarian who Aphelios had to assassinate. The twins are aware that Diana is out there, running from something, but are attempting to figure out why and locate her.
As members of the Lunari, Aphelios and his sister are constantly persecuted by the Solari faith for heresy against their religion. The Solari serve as the main targets of Aphelios's mission to protect his people, having trained to assassinate and fight Solari that would threaten the Lunari even further.
During the event of the Marus Omegnum's emergence in the physical realm, a group of Solari warriors discovered and attacked the gathered Lunari, ultimately leading to Alune and Aphelios combining their abilities to kill them.
In his most recent mission, Aphelios and Alune located a group of Solari warriors infamously called Burning Ones surrounding a key target of theirs; a barbarian holding the scimitar that formerly belonged to Diana.
Though Aphelios never met Yuumi, Alune mentions that she is often visited by her from within the Marus Omegnum due to it being located within the spirit realm. Alune greatly appreciate's Yuumi's visits, as she often gets lonely without her brother, and sometimes mentions her when speaking to Aphelios.
The Weapon of the Faithful
By David Slagle
Starring: Alune , Aphelios
The Weapon of the Faithful (Video)
True power comes at a cost. By taking the poison, Aphelios channels the voice of his sister, Alune. In turn, she grants him her abilities: five moonstone weapons for him to master.
Short Story
You Are the Weapon
He started his training with a single breath. In, and out.
Mentioned: Diana
Music Video
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Iceborn warmother of the Avarosan tribe, Ashe commands the most populous horde in the north. Stoic, intelligent, and idealistic, yet uncomfortable with her role as leader, she taps into the ancestral magics of her lineage to wield a bow of True Ice. With her people's belief that she is the mythological hero Avarosa reincarnated, Ashe hopes to unify the Freljord once more by retaking their ancient, tribal lands.
The only child of Grena , the matriarchal chieftain of the tiny Avarosan tribe, Ashe is Iceborn : a member of the warrior caste, gifted with an ancestral connection to the magic of her lands, and the rare ability to wield the power of True Ice . Everyone assumed that Ashe would follow her mother as the tribe's next leader. However, this was never a glory Ashe desired. The grim responsibility of her warlike lineage and extraordinary gifts instead left Ashe feeling isolated, burdened, and alone.
Her only respite was when Sejuani , an Iceborn girl from a sister tribe, would stay with them for the summer hunts around the Ornnkaal Rocks . The girls' friendship defined their childhoods, but was cut short just as they reached their teens. Somehow, Grena had offended Sejuani's grandmother, and the fellowship between their tribes ended suddenly.
Soon after, with her youth fading, Ashe's mother began her lifelong quest for the “Throne of Avarosa”, a supposed hoard of treasures and magical items that she hoped would return her people to greatness.
But Grena’s belief in prophecies and legends led her to take risks, which often left her tribe enfeebled. Finally, during a dangerous and unnecessary raid in another tribe's lands, Grena was killed. Her sudden death left young Ashe on the run, while most of her tribe was wiped out.
Alone, pursued, Ashe followed her mother's last map to a deserted glacier where she found the supposed grave of Avarosa, and her magical bow of True Ice. Ashe used the weapon to avenge her mother's death, then turned west.
Whether it was out of duty or loneliness, Ashe gained a reputation by protecting the many scattered hearthbound tribes she encountered. She spurned the custom of taking thralls, and instead chose to adopt these desperate people as full members of her new tribe, and her fame grew quickly. Soon many began to believe that she did not just carry the weapon of Avarosa—Ashe was the legend herself, reborn and destined to reunite the Freljord.
But tall tales would not feed her followers, and their long march south left the tribe on the verge of starvation. So, Ashe leveraged the myths surrounding her, using them to form alliances with the powerful and land-rich southern tribes, promising to unite them into a nation capable of challenging neighboring kingdoms.
These new alliances brought new dangers, and Ashe quickly found herself at the center of a political feud. A Warmother, as Freljordian tribal leaders are known, was expected to wed, and taking a husband from one of the major tribes would anger the others. Ashe could take several husbands, but this would only bring the conflict to a boil within her own household, and the ensuing bloodshed would shatter the alliances she had fought to build.
Her answer was an impoverished vagabond from a mountain clan that had been nearly wiped out—the warrior Tryndamere . He was neither a spirit-walker nor blessed with any elemental powers, but upon his arrival in Ashe’s new capital, Tryndamere had thrown himself into every dueling ring he could find. He fought with abandon, desperate to prove the destitute survivors of his clan were worthy of adoption by one of the stronger tribes. But even for the Freljord, his brutal fighting style and extraordinary vitality were unsettling, and many suspected he was touched by dark magic. Ignoring this, Ashe offered to adopt his people as her own, if he became her first and only bloodsworn.
Tryndamere accepted reluctantly. Though a political marriage, the attraction they felt for each other was palpable, and slowly a true affection blossomed.
Ashe is a slender, pale-skinned woman with blue eyes and long white hair. She wears light, elegant robes with a distinct palette of black, dark blue, and gold. She also wields a Avarosa's True Ice Bow .
Ashe is smart, stoic, serene and has a calm disposition. She is idealistic as well, believing that by retaking their ancient, tribal lands once more will unite the Freljord.
However, Ashe is implied to have a heated temper and vengeful streak, especially to those who have hurt her allies in the past. Her rage is so intense that she relies on the stinging cold of True Ice to keep her calm.
Ashe and Sejuani were childhood friends but were separated when Ashe's mother offended Sejuani's grandmother about how she was raising Sejuani. They were eventually reunited as teenagers after Ashe's tribe was decimated by Lissandra's frost priests, but the two had a falling out during a raid against a neighbor of the Winter's Claw. These neighbors, whom Ashe did not want to kill, would later become the first members of the new Avarosans. The two once saw each other as sisters.
Legends of Runeterra cards suggest Ashe's Avarosan and Trundle's trolls are in direct conflict which has resulted in a number of loss for the tribe. For that reason, Ashe wants the race to be exterminated.
Anivia is the demigod that Ashe prays to the most and the one she has the deepest connection to. This is because she speaks the most to Ashe's hopes and beliefs. [ 2 ] Rumors say a recently hatched Anivia has met Ashe, and perhaps Anivia sees one who may be able to finally reunite the Freljord.
It is unknown if Nunu and Willump support Ashe, but their deeds around the Freljord lead towards the same goal.
Ashe and Tryndamere are Bloodsworn , a political marriage, but the two eventually developed genuine affection for each other. Ashe originally married Tryndamere in order to avoid having to marry multiple suitors from neighboring tribes. All of this is, in turn, an inside reference at Riot. The name of Riot's co-founder Marc 'Tryndamere' Merrill 's wife is Ashley .
Unbeknownst to all, Lissandra is the Ice Witch of Freljordian legend, who is actually waiting for the right moment to strike Ashe's and Sejuani's tribes and wipe out any potential incarnations of Avarosa and Serylda in order to take over the Freljord. As revealed by Lissandra , she herself is one of the Three Sisters who led the Iceborn uprising against the Watchers. Whether or not she knows Ashe and Sejuani are potentially direct descendants of her sisters (Avarosa and Serylda, respectively) making her their great-aunt-many-times-removed, is unknown.
The Frost Archer
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Ashe
Mentioned: Grena , Sejuani , Tryndamere
Legends Never Die
The pursuit of mastery is an endless journey, but those who persevere etch their names in history.
Starring: Ashe , Garen , Lee Sin
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
Short Story
The Harder Path
By Lillian Herington
The colossal brazier flared to life, its flames reaching high into the air. In times past, the gathered tribes would use this as the mark of the festival's beginning.
Warmother: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Nina Vakueva
Thousands of years ago, the War of the Three Sisters nearly tore the frigid wilds of the Freljord apart. Today, the tribes descended from the three sisters - the Winter's Claw, the Avarosan, and the Frostguard - still fight for power and survival. Ashe, daughter of the Avarosan warmother, trains to someday lead her people. Food is scarce in the Freljord. Warmth, even more so.
Starring: Ashe , Grena , Helnr , Maalcrom , Yrael
Mentioned: Lissandra
Warmother: Issue 2
Faced with impossible odds, Ashe and her tribe must decide what is worth dying for.
Starring: Ashe , Grena , Maalcrom , Yrael
Mentioned: Anivia , Helnr , Lissandra
Warmother: Issue 3
Weak and starving, Ashe finds herself utterly alone, until an unexpected ally bursts into action.
Starring: Ashe , Kalkia , Sejuani
Mentioned: Grena , Maalcrom , Volibear
Warmother: Issue 4
The series conclusion! Taken in by the Winter's Claw, Ashe may have found hope for her future...
Starring: Ashe , Kalkia , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Grena , Maalcrom
A Smoldering Coal
By Roy Graham
This far north, the nights are dark. The shadows grow long in the hall of Ashe and her bloodsworn groom. The braziers burn down to smoldering coals. They may seem extinguished, dead—but even a fool knows not to grasp one with a naked hand. Even a fool.
Starring: Tryndamere
Mentioned: Ashe
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Ezreal's Field Notes
By Matthew Dunn
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Silence for the Damned
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
The Barbarian King
By Ariel Lawrence
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ashe
The Cryophoenix
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Anivia
The Heart of the Freljord
Starring: Braum
Mentioned: Ashe , Tryndamere
The Ice Witch
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Sejuani , Volibear , Zoe
The Winter's Wrath
Starring: Sejuani
Mentioned: Ashe , Grena , Kalkia
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Enter the Freljord
Starring: Ashe , Lissandra , Sejuani
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
With Hell Before Them
By Jared Rosen
June 7th, 1868
Starring: Ashe , Darius , Hecarim
Mentioned: Lucian , Thresh
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Journey Into The Freljord
By Unknown Author
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Ashe , Jarvan IV , Lissandra , Trundle
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Seeker's Tale
By Christina Norman
Mentioned: Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Sejuani , Xerath
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Aurelion Sol once graced the vast emptiness of the physical realm with wonders of his own devising, but was tricked by the Aspects of Targon into revealing the secrets of a sun that he himself created. His awesome power was channeled into immortal god-warriors to protect the apparently insignificant world of Runeterra —now, desiring a return to his mastery of the cosmos, Aurelion Sol will Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , if he must, in order to regain his freedom.
A Celestial born at the beginning of creation, Aurelion Sol and his kin were alive for eons before Runeterra even existed. They wandered through the early universe, seeking to fill it with wonders. Aurelion Sol's passion was creating stars; he forged systems and galaxies as he traveled. He rarely met any equals in power and stayed away from the Aspects, who were egotistical and uninterested in creation, instead focusing on their own philosophies.
When Aurelion Sol returned to one of his earliest creations, he was surprised to see that there was a world orbiting it, a planet he had not formed. The Aspects seemed invested in this world, Runeterra, where crude civilizations had sprung up. They urged him to come closer and guide the inhabitants. Flattered by the opportunity to have his glory praised, Aurelion Sol descended upon Mount Targon, taking the form of a cosmic dragon. The Targonians named him Sol, after their sun, and the Aspects demanded they make him a gift to thank him for it. This came in the form of a golden crown, which they offered to him.
As soon as it touched him, though, it became clear that this was no gift. The crown attached to its head, etched with magic so powerful that even he could not remove it. It restricted his powers and placed him firmly in the control of the Aspects. Aurelion Sol realized what was happening, but before he could retaliate, he was thrown back into space and prevented from coming near Runeterra. With Aurelion Sol at their command, the Aspects channeled his powers into a massive Sun Disc that the mortals had made. Using his energy, they raised up mortals into god-warriors, and when the first Sun Disc fell, a more powerful one took its place. Aurelion Sol was forced to watch as these Ascended destroyed first their enemies, then Void-creatures, and finally themselves.
The stars he had created began to fade because of neglect, but he was still unable to free himself and help them. The Aspects ferried him between different planets to complete tasks for them, not realizing that the crown's bonds were slowly weakening. Aurelion Sol decided that when he escaped, he would take revenge on the Aspects and destroy Runeterra for detaining him, and finally got the chance when a series of magical cataclysms rendered the planet almost defenceless.
Aurelion Sol was called back to Runeterra by a previous incarnation of Pantheon , the Aspect of War. As always, he appeared in the sky as a glowing comet, invoking various reactions and emotions from the people below. As he witnessed the people react to him in ways he had seen before, Aurelion Sol thought about how humans never learned from their mistakes and how circular the pattern of history is. He scoffed at the primitive nature of the people below, hearing their names for him, and deeming them all incorrect, believing that these lowly creatures could never understand what he truly was.
When he arrived on the mountain on which Pantheon was waiting for him, the Aspect ordered him to seal a breach into The Void that had formed in the mountain. However, Aurelion Sol did not immediately obey, managing to unease the Aspect. Eventually, he was forced to obey the Pantheon, and he destroyed some of the the various energies and Voidborn creatures that emerged from the rift. However, he was not able to seal the rift, as there was a sentient being keeping it open. Aurelion Sol felt the energy eminating from the rift and realized that this being was laughing at him.
Infuriated, Aurelion Sol formed three fledgling stars out of the elements around him and threw all three at the rift. The stars seared the abyss closed, with an explosion so massive that it that it destroyed the mountain that the rift had formed on and everything on it, along with Pantheon's physical form. Across Runeterra, mortals saw what many called a 'second dawn', caused by the light that was released by the explosion.
Aurelion Sol had killed Pantheon's physical form, he had disobeyed orders from the Aspects themselves, and the cost of such insubordination was the life of a star, which physically and emotionally hurt him. His fury that a sun was the cost of an Aspect's physical form was tempered by the knowledge that he had learned from the Aspects' mistakes once again. From across the universe, the Aspects rushed to direct him somewhere else. As he left Runeterra, Aurelion Sol sensed that a new host - possibly Atreus - was chosen to bear the spirit of Pantheon. As he took pleasure in the confusion and desperation he sensed from the Aspects, Aurelion Sol left Runeterra, knowing that the Aspects were afraid of what he might do next.
Aurelion Sol has been called back to Runeterra, though it is unclear for what purpose. Moreover, he has summoned Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). to the planet, to await the time when dragons across the universe shall descend upon Runeterra.
While most cannot see or even comprehend his true form, Aurelion Sol takes the form of a cosmic dragon when not in the celestial realm . In this form, he is larger than even Mount Targon , Runeterra's tallest mountain. His skin is dark blue, resembling the color of deep space, and glistens with the light of stars. He glows in this form in light and dark shades of blue, and his head is white with sharp spikes resembling teeth around his mouth. What could be considered his hair is a deep purple and dark blue, and attached to his head is a golden crown.
Aurelion Sol is an arrogant and prideful celestial being. He is angry at the Aspects for imprisoning him and is determined to destroy Runeterra. He is impatient and irritable and is extremely dismissive of Aspects (apart from Zoe ) and anybody that he sees as inferior to him. Made bitter by his imprisonment, perhaps the only things that Aurelion Sol cares about are the stars he has created.
Aurelion Sol has several 'siblings' in the sense that they are celestial dragons like him, including Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). may also be a sibling.
He has also created several constellations, including Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . The Great Beyond is what Aurelion Sol considers his magnum opus, and he would like it to be the first to attack Mount Targon.
He is fully aware of the existence of other celestial entities such as Bard and Soraka .
Aurelion Sol hates the people of Targon and the Aspects , as they are the ones who enslaved him.
Aurelion Sol has disdain for both the Solari and Lunari, and by extension Leona and Diana. This is because he sees their divisions as pointless, since moonlight is merely reflected sunlight.
Aurelion Sol and Zoe are well-acquainted. She is the only Targonian Aspect that appears to offer him aid and protection from the Aspects' wrath. However, he often gets frustrated by her childish behavior and her insistence on him being her pet 'space doggy'.
The Star Forger
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Aurelion Sol
Call of the Mountain (Video)
The mountain calls. Will you answer?
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Illi , Inviolus Vox , Leona
Mentioned: Taric
He Has Returned
Mentioned: Pantheon
The Star Forger Returns
Cower. Worship. Marvel. All appropriate responses, really.
Short Story • 10 Minute Read
This world's familiar sun still hides below the horizon. Crude and unpolished earth unfurls below. Mountains contort into barriers that stretch like fingers across empty scrub lands. Palaces, or rather, what pass for palaces, fail to loom over anything but the squattest of hills. The curvature of the planet meets the stars with a serenity and grace few of the dwellers below will ever witness. They are so scattered across the globe and grasp so blindly for any sort of understanding that it's no surprise they've been conquered and don't even comprehend their predicament.
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
The moment she thought of the cake store, Zoe dove into the air, surrendering herself to gravity. While falling, she reached out with her consciousness to form a gateway. Instantly, a portal opened beneath her and connected to the other place. She fell into the gate. Her mass collided and imploded as she traveled.
Starring: Zoe
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Pantheon
The Aspect of Twilight
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Mordekaiser
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
By Graham McNeill
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Spear of Targon
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
A lone figure awaited the armed convoy, standing silhouetted against the sun. His heavy cloak and the long plume atop his helm billowed in the hot, dry desert wind. A tall spear was held at his side.
Starring: Pantheon
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Soraka
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Seeker's Tale
By Christina Norman
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Sejuani , Xerath
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
From the moment she was born, Aurora navigated life with a unique ability to move between the spirit and material realms. Determined to learn more about the spirit realm's inhabitants, she left her home to further her research and happened upon a wayward demigod who’d become twisted and lost to time. Witnessing his desperation, Aurora resolved to find a way to help her feral friend regain his forgotten identity—a journey that would take her to the farthest reaches of the Freljord.
Aurora was born in the secluded village of Aamu as a member of a vastayan tribe known as the Bryni, a secluded tribe of rabbit-like vastaya that remained isolated from other vastayan tribes, causing their inherent magic to be more diluted. [ 1 ] Aurora was born with the innate ability to interact much more closely with the Spirit Realm , making many 'friends' that only she could see. Aurora's parents believed this to just be her wild imagination, but Aurora's great aunt Havu actually encouraged her unique abilities and passions, allowing her to revel in her own company.
As Aurora grew up, she started to understand her ability more, realizing these imaginary friends were actually spirits and that she had a special ability to peer through the veil between the mortal and spiritual realms. Using this special unique sight, Aurora meticulously documented and studied these spirits to help others understand the world as she saw it.
While more and more spirits appeared before Aurora during her studies, she began to discover some that felt lost between the realms, disturbed by mortal affairs. Seeking to help these spirits return to the spirit realm, she continued her research outside of Aamu and began to travel further out of the Freljord , nervously leaving her home behind to expand her knowledge on spirits and how to help them.
During her travels, Aurora encountered a particularly monstrous spirit in the shape of a twisted elk. The spirit was feral and afraid, lashing out with bloodstained antlers while Aurora tried to calm him down. She eventually managed to gain his trust, but her attempts to heal and help him would only end in failure. Still determined to help the elk spirit, Aurora convinced him to travel with her and used her powers to tuck him away in the spirit realm while she worked to unravel what was afflicting the elk spirit.
After encountering a number of powerful spirit walkers; shamans capable of communing with the spiritual demigods of the Freljord, they were simply at a loss at how to help the elk spirit and suggested that she sought out Udyr , the Freljord's most powerful spirit walker. Though Udyr immediately recognized the immense power in Aurora's new friend, he knew that the fearsome elk spirit was simply too lost to commune with and urged her to seek the demigods themselves for answers instead.
Sometime between the Founding of the Freljord and the present, Aurora ventured into Hearth-Home seeking a way to help her new-found Spirit friend. When she approached Ornn , the Spirit of Hearth-Home, he dismissed her, claiming he was too busy to help. Undeterred, Aurora busied herself by tidying and reorganizing Hearth-Home, which greatly pleased Ornn.
Impressed by her efforts, Ornn apologized for his earlier brusqueness and revealed the location where Aurora could find information about her spirit friend, whose name was revealed to be Haestryr . As a gesture of their new-found friendship, Ornn forged a wand for Aurora, granting her the ability to create portals at will.
Aurora eventually left Hearth-Home to seek answers about Haestryr, but she often returns to visit her grumpy friend Ornn and reminisce about the past.
Aurora is a slender, pale woman with a freckled face, blue eyes, and orange hair. As a Vastaya , she possesses a mostly human appearance, apart from long, rabbit-like ears, legs, and tail, all adorned with her signature orange hair. Her freckles coalesce into orange splotches on some areas of her skin, including her shoulders and outer thighs.
She wears a pair of large, circular glasses and has a brass-colored piercing near the bottom of her right ear. Her usual outfit consists of a teal wide-brimmed witch hat, a white fur-lined coat over a teal and white sleeveless tunic, teal shorts, and brown thigh-high open-toed leather boots. She has also been seen draped in a large, dark teal, hooded winter cloak lined with beige fur. She carries a dark brown wooden wand with a brass-colored metal handle.
Aurora is a quiet young woman with a strong appetite for knowledge, though not to the point of obsession. She has a caring nature, evident by her actions, such as tidying up Hearth-Home despite Ornn's initial rejection. She is also determined to help Haestryr, even though they have only recently met.
Aurora and Ornn are friends. They first met when Aurora entered Ornn's home in search of help for the spirit Haestryr. In order to assist her, Ornn forged Aurora's wand.
The Witch Between Worlds
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Aurora
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
The Spirit of Hearth-Home
By Elyse Lemoine , Ty Sheedlo
I remember...
Starring: Aurora , Ornn
Mentioned: Hestrelk , Lissandra , Volibear
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Azir was a mortal emperor of Shurima in a far distant age, a proud man who stood at the cusp of immortality. His hubris saw him betrayed and murdered at the moment of his greatest triumph, but now, millennia later, he has been reborn as an Ascended being of immense power. With his buried city risen from the sand, Azir seeks to restore Shurima to its former glory.
Azir was the last son of the emperor of Shurima. He never received the same love from the emperor as did the other children. It was highly unexpected that he would be the one to become emperor. He spent most of his time studying the texts rather than training for combat.
Azir met a slave looking for texts for his master in the library. Surprisingly, he was able to help Azir understand complex grammar from an ancient text. The two quickly became friends after this, and Azir named the boy Xerath, even though slaves were not allowed names.
One day, while the royal family was travelling in the desert, they were attacked by assassins. Azir and Xerath had gone out to plot the stars. Xerath managed to suppress the attacker while Azir plunged a dagger into his throat. But Azir’s brothers had all been killed before Renekton managed to slay the assassins. Azir promised that one day, he and Xerath would be brothers.
Azir, now heir to the throne, began to train in combat under the tutelage of Renekton. He learned to wield the sword and spear.
Strangely, all the sons of the emperor’s wife began to die before they were born. Then one was finally born. But during a great storm, the emperor’s wife was killed along with her newborn son. It was said that the emperor went mad with grief and took his own life, leaving Azir to take the throne.
Xerath had secretly longed for the power of ascension himself and saw Azir as a threat to his own aspirations; a world without slavery, and to end that, he secretly planned to guide Azir to the Dais of Ascension himself. On the day of Ascension, just as Azir is ascended-Xerath used his magic to subvert the ritual, causing it to fail and unleashing a catastrophic explosion that destroyed the capital city of Shurima, killing many of Azir's people in the process.
In the aftermath of the failed ascension, Azir was presumed dead, and Shurima fell into ruin and decay. However, Azir had actually ascended in a flawed and incomplete manner, becoming trapped in a state of suspended animation, his body and spirit separated from each other. Over the centuries, Azir's spirit remained dormant, while his body was preserved in a state of stasis within a chamber in The Sun Disc, an ancient structure that had been built to harness the power of the sun and the magic of the Ascended. It wasn't until the present day, when The Sun Disc was rediscovered and reactivated, that Azir's body was reawakened, and his spirit was reunited with it. When the tomb containing the Sun Disc and Azir was opened, chaos broke out and Sivir 's blood spilled over to the sand, awakening the falcon god in the process.
As Azir awakened, he was confronted by the brutal reality of his empire's decline and the treachery of those who had sought to undermine him, especially the now berserk Xerath . Despite these obstacles, Azir remained determined to reclaim his throne and rebuild Shurima, using his newfound power and knowledge to unite his people and restore their former glory.
Azir is a tall male humanoid figure with features of a bird, specifically a falcon, his head is that of a golden falcon with blue eyes that shine like sapphires.He wears ancient golden Shuriman armor with red ribbons hanging from his arms and a white cape on his back.
When he was human, Azir was a brown-skinned man and quite stocky, with long dark hair tied in dreadlocks and various trappings of royalty.He didn't wear a shirt but his chest and arms were adorned with all kinds of Shuriman amulets and necklaces, he wore white baggy pants with red ribbons around his hips.
Azir is a proud, determined ruler who sees potential in others. While he originally had no chance of being emperor, he befriended Xerath and saw him more than just a mere slave, but also a friend and even a brother. He wished to repay Xerath by giving him rewards and a higher status, but the societal values of Shurima prevented this. Despite this, Azir wished to become emperor to abolish slavery and give Xerath what he would've wanted, but his power led to him becoming hubristic, which was Azir's biggest weakness and one of the causes of Shurima's downfall. While he did have selfless intentions for the empire, his arrogance prevented him from communicating his goals with Xerath and seeing when he was being manipulated, and his shortsightedness towards the consequences of his actions caused Xerath's resentment to grow to the point where by the time he announced his plan, it was too late and Xerath had already made his decision to betray him.
Since his resurrection, Azir now wishes to rebuild the empire and return Shurima to its former glory is a very noble gesture, calling upon the help of his allies in order to do so.
However Azir has shown a quite noble and generous side, since one of the things he always wanted to do after becoming emperor was to abolish slavery and help the poor, he has shown a kinder side of him when he saved Sivir's life.
Xerath's treachery made Azir furious at his former soul brother betraying his trust to become an Ascended being and destroying Shurima in the process. He can't let go because he truly loved his nation, however much his ambition may have led him astray. He can't accept responsibility for what happened to his kingdom - he blames Xerath, but was it really Xerath's fault...? Or was it the emperor who couldn't see the cruel intent of his most trusted advisor - and friend? And yes - for the moment, he is an emperor without an empire. An emperor without a people. He has nothing - but he'll do everything with his newfound power to change that, and rebuild Shurima into the thriving, powerful empire it once was.
Given Ezreal's exploration of the Shurima Desert and robbing of artifacts from its tombs, it's likely Azir won't be entirely fond of him.
Azir dislikes Sivir's graverobbing but does not resent her. She is family after all, and saving her from Cassiopeia's backstabbing meant everything at the time of his revival. He would hold his hatred for Cassiopeia for almost ending his bloodline forever.
When he was young, Azir was taught ancient knowledge from Nasus and combat from Renekton . The Ascended brothers' teachings will prove useful for the trials ahead.
Azir is disappointed that a mighty warrior such as Renekton has been reduced to a rabid beast after being tortured beyond insanity for imprisoning himself with Xerath.
On the other hand, Nasus might be the only remaining Ascended that can help the Emperor. Azir deeply respects Nasus, though the Curator looks down on him for his arrogance and for what his hubris did to Shurima. [ 1 ]
The Emperor of the Sands
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Azir
Mentioned: Nasus , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Azir walked the gold-paved Emperor's Way. The immense statues of Shurima's earliest rulers – his ancestors – watched his progress.
Mentioned: Sivir , Xerath
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Empires of the Ascended (Video)
A buried empire. A brother’s betrayal. A relic that could change everything.
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton
Fall of the Empire
By Numerous creators
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton , Xerath
Rise of the Ascended
Discover the tale of Ancient Shurima, where the fates of Azir and Siver intertwine.
Starring: Azir , Sivir
Short Story
Water and Shade To You
For the first time Khari could remember, flowers grew on the street leading from the town square to the Cut.
Mentioned: Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Darkness Renews
Am I a god?
Starring: Renekton
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Xerath
Echoes in the Stone
By Ariel Lawrence
Taliyah was outrunning the sandstorm when she first noticed the water. In the beginning, it was faint, just a cool dampness she felt as she lifted the stones from deep beneath the sand. As she drew closer to old Shurima, wet streaks dripped from each new stone as if they were weeping. Taliyah knew the rock had stories to tell as she sped across the desert, but she didn't have time to listen, to hear if they were tears of joy or sadness.
Starring: Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Sivir
Feast of the Prophet
By Jared Rosen
Meir follows a crowd of cultists out of the prophet’s tent city, and down into a low valley at the edge of the desert.
Starring: Malzahar
Mentioned: Azir , Bel'Veth
By Dana Luery Shaw
Kai’Sa peers out from the mouth of the tunnel and feels like she’s standing at the edge of the world.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Rek'Sai
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus
By Ryan Verniere
Nasus walked at night, unwilling to face the sun. The boy followed in his wake.
Starring: Nasus
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Xerath
Roots of a Poisoned Tree
Dust hung in veils as Shoorai followed the mechanical-limbed form of Tunnel-Chief Hewlett deeper into the mine shaft.
Starring: Malphite
Mentioned: Azir , Taliyah
Short Story • 9 Minute Read
Sai Kahleek (Short Story)
By Odin Austin Shafer
Six boys and a camel, and the boys were cheaper to replace. Some were orphans and escaped slaves, but most were off casts — teenagers abandoned by families too poor to keep them. When Shahib offered him the work, Jaheje hadn't eaten in days.
Starring: Rek'Sai
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
Short Story • 19 Minute Read
The Bird and the Branch
A young stone mage from Shurima encounters an unlikely mentor in the mountains of Ionia.
Starring: Taliyah , Yasuo
Mentioned: Azir
The Butcher of the Sands
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Sivir , Xerath
The Curator of the Sands
The Faceless God
I watch the worm wriggling its way up from the sand.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Azir , Xolaani
The Legend of the Darkin
The darkin are thrice-cursed - once by the ancient enemy they faced, again by the fall of their glorious empire, and finally by the betrayal that has damned them for all eternity.
The Magus Ascendant
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
The Pride of Nazumah
By Michael Luo
Starring: K'Sante
Mentioned: Azir , Tope , Xerath
The Stoneweaver
Mentioned: Azir , Yasuo
The Unforgiven
Starring: Yasuo
Mentioned: Azir , Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Short Story • 25 Minute Read
Twilight of the Gods
They came to a dead city in the mountain's shadow under cover of night.
Starring: Naganeka , Zoe
Mentioned: Aatrox , Azir , Nasus , Rhaast , Varus
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
This was the moment.
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Sivir's throat felt like it was coated in a layer of broken glass. The cracked flesh of her lips burned. Her eyes refused to focus. I've given them more than enough time to move on.
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia
Firewood was precious in the desert, but the blackened ruins of Vekaura offered a plentiful supply of charred timbers to hurl on bonfires.
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Rise of the Elements
Starring: Azir , Kindred , Ornn , Warwick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A traveler from beyond the stars, Bard is an agent of serendipity who strives to maintain the harmony between creation, and the cold indifference of what lies beyond it. Many Runeterrans sing songs that ponder his extraordinary nature, yet they all agree that the cosmic vagabond is drawn to artifacts of great magical power. Surrounded by a jubilant choir of helpful meeps , it is impossible to mistake his actions as malevolent, as Bard always serves the greater good... in his own odd way.
Bard is a Celestial who already existed within the Celestial Realm at the Creation of the Universe . Initially drifting aimlessly, Bard found a new purpose when the Celestial Dragon Aurelion Sol forged the universe 's first stars, producing a symphony of creation. Bard traversed the celestial harmonies of the universe and began to attract new companions called meeps ; celestial spirit creatures spawned from the residual inspiration used to create the stars.
As Bard continued his travel, the meeps alerted him to a world with a unique song of its own called Runeterra , a realm filled with primitive and chaotic music that disharmonized with the rest of the cosmos. While he appreciated its inherent beauty, he realized that this song had become destructive and needed intervention before it can threaten the fabric of the universe.
Venturing into the planet's physical realm, Bard first touched down on the continent of Ionia and created a physical form from the trinkets and fabrics of a shawm-player's wagon. He roamed Runeterra for an extensive period, confusing and bewildering any who would those he encountered. On his travels, Bard discovered that many powerful and unpredictable objects, such as the World Runes , had mysteriously been left scattered on the planet's surface by some unknown entities, which threatened to disrupt the balance of the universe.
As a caretaker, Bard personally took the task of retrieving these misplaced objects and restoring cosmic harmony in an effort to protect Runeterra from the forces that lay beyond . Seeing into the future, Bard saw an impending cataclysm that would span across all realms, anticipating for when he must choose a side to maintain the cosmic balance.
In the midst of the vicious Noxian Invasion of Ionia , a group of villagers settled around a mountain with a sacred temple at the very top of it. The Noxians eventually discovered the village and, in their conquest to take over the continent, sought out an immensely powerful, egg-like artifact of celestial origin in the mountain. The Noxians slaughtered most of these Ionians and ransacked the village in search of this artifact. Meanwhile, the village sage used the powerful artifact to obliterate a group of these soldiers, causing collateral damage to the surrounding area and slicing an entire mountain in half. Bard's instantly turned his attention to the shockwave made by the artifact as he rushed to the site of the invasion.
Flying through the clashing Ionian and Noxian armies, Bard quickly flew up the mountain's steps and grabbed the artifact, taking it to the peak and placing it on a sacred pedestal. From there, Bard blew into his cosmic instrument, summoning a chorus of meeps to witness him as he used his powers to transport both himself and the artifact into the celestial realm away from the hands of mortals who could potentially weaponize it. Those witnessing the event saw Bard's transportation manifest into a three-pointed constellation in the sky, naming the mountain Bard Mountain in his honor. [ 1 ]
While on his quest to preserve powerful artifacts, Bard would encounter many people who witnessed his mysterious deeds. Some artists and performers considered him a source of immense inspiration for great works of art, while others would be bewildered and confused by his bizarre nature.
According to a travelling balladeer from the Freljord who made a stop in Demacia , his mother had an ancient chime that managed to attract a stray meep shortly before floating away. After chasing the flying chime, Bard himself appeared and placed the man in a dream-like state, temporarily transforming him into a meep and allowing him to perceive the universe as Bard does temporarily. In this form, he realized the coming dangers that Bard is attempting to avoid before returning to his mortal body. [ 2 ]
A man named Old Gaff claimed that he saw Bard in the sky once, flying across the heavens like a falling star. [ 3 ] The day after, while sweeping the floors at his house, Old Gaff witnessed a similar entity to Bard named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , who created a physical form from his pots and pans before waddling away to a nearby temple as if it were looking for something. [ 4 ] At the temple, Old Gaff found Bard summoning a massive vortex of meeps, all singing and dancing in a beautiful choir as they rose upward before disappearing in a flash of light, leaving only a single chime in Old Gaff's hands. [ 5 ]
Bard continues his journey to protect the beauty of Runeterra by restoring its cosmic equilibrium, safeguarding immensely powerful artifacts that could potentially be misused by mortals in the future.
Most recently on his travels, Bard has taken notice of Xolaani , a Darkin who has just recently possessed a brand new Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . [ 6 ] However, it's unclear what her significance to Bard is as he hasn't been shown to intervene.
At least fifty years in the future, one of the survivors of the Noxian invasion at Bard Mountain lives to become an elderly story teller, remaining on that very same mountain. Here, the storyteller would tell three teenagers various stories and describe the many constellations in the skies that represent significant events of the past; arrival of the Watchers in the Freljord , the fall of Shurima and the ruination of the Shadow Isles . The final constellation he talks about is the three pointed mask of Bard himself, which he witnessed on that very same mountain many years ago as a child. [ 7 ]
Bard is an ethereal Celestial being who created a corporeal form in order to traverse and interact with the physical world. [ 8 ] His corporeal form has stitched body with wooden-peg legs and a mask-face. Bard's true form is able to abandon his body while it 'deflates'.
Unlike other Celestials that care for and meddle with the existence of mortal beings, Bard focuses more on the 'bigger picture,' interested more in the cosmic balance of Runeterra and assessing any threats that can endanger the fabric of all reality. The only time Bard notices or wholly interacts with a mortal being is if they are involved with some significant event or power that threatens the cosmic balance. Bard simply doesn't care for individual lives and instead is more concerned with the 'bigger picture' and seeing preserving life as a whole.
Bard would never intervene in combat with someone unless they themselves have some significance that could potentially alter the world's cosmic balance, almost completely ignoring anybody and everything that isn't his concern. Though Bard has the absolute best intentions in mind, he can come off as incredibly strange and whimsical in his behaviors, popping in and out of existence without warning almost mischievously.
Bard knows about and has met many Celestials on his travels around the cosmos. Unlike other Celestials however, Bard perceives the world in a completely unique way; as harmonious music rather than through sight. Along with that, Bard doesn't manifest in the physical realm through possessing a mortal body like the Aspects do, Bard instead possesses a collection of trinkets and instruments strewn together into a suitable form. Bard is aware of other Celestials and their affairs in meddling with Runeterra , such as how they had left behind countless powerful artifacts on the planet, but he simply questions why they would leave these objects behind and endanger the universe.
At the first breath of creation , Bard simply drifted across the cosmos without purpose or perception. It wasn't until Aurelion Sol forged the first stars that Bard began to perceive the universe as music, flowing across the harmonies between the stars and witnessing the beauty of the universe.
Bard perceives the universe as musical melodies and first took notice to Runeterra because of its inherent dissonance in the universe's harmonies. Though the music of Runeterra is primitive and chaotic it is also beautiful in its freedom, something that specifically took Bard's interest. However, he also sees the danger of this as Runeterra has the capability of growing so chaotic and destructive that it could end the stability of the cosmos, dedicating himself to becoming the cosmic caretaker of this world and keeping incomprehensible powers out of mortal hands.
Ever since touching down at Ionia , Bard continues to passively restore the balance of powers in Runeterra rather than interfering in major historical events, having no direct ties to major events such as the arrival of the Watchers , the Fall of Shurima or the Ruination of Helia . Though these events involved powerful forces, they had no major cosmic ramifications and thus didn't take Bard's notice. [ 10 ]
Though its unknown whether or not the two have actually met in the past, it is very likely considering Ryze's age and their conjoined efforts in safeguarding powerful magics such as the World Runes .
The Wandering Caretaker
By Marcus Terrell Smith
Starring: Bard
Bard Mountain (Video)
When Runeterra's sacred treasures are misused, the Wandering Caretaker intervenes.
Short Story
Testimony of the Balladeer
You, there! Yes, you! You look like a fine Demacian with working ears—one who might stay a stretch and heed the warnings of an old man who has seen the impossible.
The Wonder Above
By Ryan Verniere
The stars tell their own stories. Some speak of past events. Some speak of... other things.
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Attack of the Demon Poros
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A behemoth of burnished metal, steam, and crackling electricity, Blitzcrank walks the streets of Zaun in a tireless effort to improve the undercity and give aid to those in need. Created to descend into the most caustic and dangerous of environments in Zaun to dispose of harmful waste, they have evolved beyond the bounds of their original programming, thanks to the genius of their inventor, and the mysterious power of hextech .
After a massive chem-spill devastated entire districts of Zaun , a series of mechanical golems were sent out to clean up the mess. Designed to remove the toxic waste claiming the neighborhoods, these lumbering golems, toiled continuously in extremely hazardous locations, fulfilling their programming to better the city for the people of Zaun. Eventually, one particular golem was rendered inoperative, discarded as useless scrap. It wasn't until the esteemed inventor Viktor discovered the abandoned golem, seeing the potential within its inert chassis. Viktor ran a series of experiments to improve the automaton, implanting a priceless hextech crystal from the deserts of Shurima into the forsaken golem as an immense upgrade.
As the machine rumbled to life, Viktor named it Blitzcrank after the fizzing arcs of lighting that danced around their frame; an unexpected side effect of the hextech crystal within their chassis. As Blitzcrank was sent down into the most toxic parts of Zaun, they proved more than capable of laboring just like their steam-powered brethren. However, Viktor witnessed Blitzcrank miraculously accomplish tasks with vastly improved speed and efficiency, realizing that his custom-built golem had actually been learning rather than simply laboring.
As Blitzcrank continued to clean up the chemical spills of Zaun, they began to innovate, interpret and extrapolate on their daily directives, serving the people of Zaun much further. Blitzcrank's intelligence would grow so much that they would interact with the Zaunite citizens on a regular basis, something unheard of for a laboring steam golem. Meanwhile, Viktor would attempt to replicate his achievement to no avail, as origin of Blitzcrank's blossoming consciousness became complete enigma to him, but most likely the product of the hextech crystal.
As Blitzcrank continued to learn and grow, concepts such as moderation and nuance remained alien to the golem, as Blitzcrank would persue any effort with their entirety or not at all. This would cause Blitzcrank to overdo or misinterpret requests at times, such as smashing down the front of a tenement to help a single resident who lost their keys. At one point, Viktor dispatched Blitzcrank to clean up runoff of caustic chemicals. Reasoning that the most efficient means to prevent further pollution was to eliminate the source of said pollution, Blitzcrank proceeded to destroy the factory, their lightning-wreathed fists not stopping until it was reduced to a mound of rubble and twisted iron.
A local chem-baron who had owned the factory became enraged when Blitzcrank destroyed it, demanding that Viktor either destroy the golem or pay a steeper price in blood. Viktor became devastated, having witnessed Blitzcrank's growth in sentience and considering them a living being. He eventually concocted a scheme to smuggle Blitzcrank to safety, but discovered that his creation had already left to ensure the safety of their creator as the two parted ways. However, as Viktor returned to Piltover to continue his studies, he discovered that his teacher Professor Stanwick had actually held a symposium about Blitzcrank, presenting their creation as his own and taking Viktor's credit. [ 1 ]
Having grown into self-sufficiency, Blitzcrank decided to take up their own mission independent of their creator, looking to resolve Zaun's local problems and better life for its citizens their own way. They would often patrol the city, serving to assist and protect any Zaunites without pausing for instruction. Always searching for any problems in need of solution, Blitzcrank aims to shepherd Zaun down the path of becoming the greatest city in the world. It's also rumored that Blitzcrank has slowly been upgrading their own form, adding modifications to their own body to help further their goal.
While swinging around Zaun with their rocket arms, Blitzcrank found themself at the Rising Howl, a massive Hexdraulic Conveyor designed to allow vertical travel between the Sump to the Boundary Markets atop Zaun. Blitzcrank stopped at the elevator to enjoy the noise and unique sounds from the massive machine, curiously surveying the many passengers riding it.
As the Howl began to descend from the Entresol level, it abruptly jammed, causing a terrible malfunction as it painfully braced against the support beams before dropping entirely. As the elevator quickly fell and the passengers screamed, Blitzcrank attempted to grasp onto the support beams and stop the Howl from falling. During the chaos, a young boy almost fell out of the Howl's window before Blitzcrank grasped him with his arm mid-air. Blitzcrank eventually managed to grasp onto the support beams, abruptly stopping the elevator and saving the lives of all the passengers. Once the elevator began to stabilize, the Howl's passengers were directed to medical workers by the conductor, who graciously thanked the golem. Blitzcrank simply responded by saying they were 'fulfilling their purpose' before bidding the passengers a good day. [ 2 ]
Blitzcrank helped out Ekko when he was fighting a gang of chempunks, grabbing some of them and blasting them with a wave of electricity to protect the young boy. [ 3 ] After this, he would quickly befriend Ekko and the rest of his gang, including Zeri . At one point, Blitzcrank became badly damaged after a violent encounter with a couple of scrappers, causing the detachment of their arm. Luckily, Zeri was nearby to help save and repair them. [ 4 ]
Blitzcrank is a big Techmaturgical Golem build out of golden/bronze colored steel plating. It has a big steam engine attached to its back which it retained from its original creation. Their body is staticly electrified by the Hextech crystal within them. This is most notable around the screws that represent their knuckles.
Unlike other Techmaturgical Golems , Blitzcrank is able to learn and adapt, similar to artifical intelligence . Despite its imposing size and cold steel, Blitzcrank is a kind hearted, altruistic golem and will lend a helping hand to anyone in Zaun who needs it.
Created in the service of Zaun , Blitzcrank prides themself in protecting the citizens of Zaun from the chemical spill that dots the city's landscape. Far more efficient than their peers , they were able to clean up multiple spills without sustaining any damage that would have cause for repair.
After a while Blitzcrank was learning beyond what their initial directives had set out for them. They started to innovate, interpreting and extrapolating on their daily directives. As a result, they did far more to serve the people of Zaun, and even began to interact with them on a regular basis.
Viktor discovered a Golem , after it was abandoned because it was rendered inoperative. In a stroke of brilliance, Viktor implanted a Hextech crystal into the machine that would elevate it far beyond the original scope of its creation. After the machine rumbled to life, Viktor named his new creation Blitzcrank after the fizzing arcs of lightning that danced around their frame. It was an unexpected side effect of the hextech crystal.
Viktor is protective over his creation. When it is threatened to be destroyed, he start planning how to get it to safety. Before he was able to enact this plan, the golem already left his facility.
Ekko and Blitzcrank have fought chempunks together.
Blitzcrank used to help Zeri climb the Clocktower of Piltover . She notes that their arm is no joke. At one point, Blitzcrank became badly damaged after a violent encounter with a couple of scrappers, causing the detachment of their arm. Luckily, Zeri was nearby to help save and repair them. [ 4 ]
The Great Steam Golem
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Blitzcrank
Mentioned: Viktor
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The plump belly of the Rising Howl looms before me, churning with its endless gears and elaborate ironwork. Some say the Howl is named for the wrought iron wolf that cries atop the apex of the hexdraulic descender; others swear the ghost of a black-veiled gentle-servant haunts the cabin, and when the Howl lifts him away from his lost love in Zaun, the sounds of his moans reverberate and shake its metal core. Many Piltovans, convinced as they are in their own sound judgment, are sure the name refers to nothing more than the cold wind whistling between the crevasses below their city.
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
The Machine Herald
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Viktor
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Jayce
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Music Video
You Really Got Me
By Numerous creators
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Blitzcrank is an enormous, near-indestructible steam golem originally built to dispose of hazardous waste in Zaun . Evolved beyond his primary purpose, Blitzcrank selflessly uses his strength and durability to protect others. Able to see past false veneers and artifice to the truth of an intention, Blitzcrank moves to help those in need.
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a tribesman of the icy Freljord named Kegan Rodhe, the creature known as Brand is a lesson in the temptation of greater power. Seeking one of the legendary World Runes, Kegan betrayed his companions and seized it for himself—and, in an instant, the man was no more. His soul burned away, his body a vessel of living flame, Brand now roams Valoran in search of other Runes, swearing revenge for wrongs he could never possibly have suffered in a dozen mortal lifetimes.
Brand was born as Kegan Rodhe in the Freljord , in the region of Lokfar in a settlement called Rygann's Reach. His mother was a healer and his father was a reaver. Because of this and the fact that his father never stayed to raise him, he earned the nickname "Reaver-Bastard" among the people of Rygann's Reach.
Kegan and his mother were shunned from the settlement, with the only reason they weren't banished from the settlement entirely being that Kegan's mother healed the denisons of Rygann's Reach. Due to all of this, Kegan was often the subject of ridicule from the townspeople, often being called names and getting in fights. His only friend was Zvanna, a local girl he met shortly after she and her family had moved to Rygann's reach. Kegan and Zvanna were lovers for a time, but stopped at some point for unknown reasons, most likely because of Kegan's temper against the townspeople that were cruel to him.
After the death of his mother, Kegan was informed by Zvanna that the Townspeople of Rygann's Reach wanted him to leave. After packing up and getting ready to leave, Kegan snuck into the home of Rygann, the leader of Rygann's Reach and the person that Kegan hated and blamed the most for what he and his mother had to endure during their stay at the town. He poured gasoline on the floor of the home and as Rygann woke up, Kegan told Rygann that he and all the other townspeople had killed his mother by slowly wearing her away with how they treated her and that he was now sending Kegan out to die. He then set the house on fire.
After burning himself in the fire that he started, Kegan walked away intending to leave Rygann's Reach and go into the wilderness. After getting on top of a hill, Kegan looked back and saw that the fire had spread throughout the entire settlement. Realizing that Zvanna's home had burned down, he ran back to find her. He found her dead body laying next to her family's bodies. After kneeling beside them for a time, he went into the wilderness to find another settlement.
Kegan wandered through the wilderness for weeks, hunting wildlife to survive. He had wandered into a cave hoping to wait out a blizzard when Ryze walked into the cave and healed him of his frostbite and his severe burns from the fire at Rygann's Reach. Ryze saw potential in Kegan and decided to take him as his apprentice.
After Kegan had been Ryze's apprentice for a time, they tracked down a World Rune, a magical artifact that could give the user a large amount of magical power. After obtaining it, Kegan chose to keep and use the World Rune for his own gain. The Rune transformed Kegan, making the creature who would eventually come to be known as Brand. A shadow of the man he once was, Brand began his search for more World Runes.
Brand has burned grey and black skin. This skin is interrupted by an orange streak along his chest that eminates light. His hands and scalp are this same shade of orange and are continuously on fire. Crevices where his eyes and mouth would be are replaced with orange light. Brand wears nothing but a pair of brown pants with belts around each leg, with the lower half of these pants being burned off.
Kegan Rodhe was an angry man, bitter towards the denizens of Rygann's Reach for how they treated him and his mother. He had an explosive temper, often resorting to him yelling, or more often using violence at those who angered him.
After transforming into Brand, the World Rune took full control of Kegan's body, becoming a cataclysmic pyromaniac obsessed with gaining more power and burning the world to ash, seeing mortals as weak and wishing to rule as a god. He is obsessed with hunting down his vessel's former master Ryze , trying to tempt him to rule with the World-Runes' power alongside him, and taunting him when his apprentice Kala nearly gave in to the temptation of a World-Rune. [ 1 ] It is shown that Brand's personality was influenced by the World-Rune tempting Kegan to getting revenge on the world for how he had been treated, reducing Kegan to nothing more than the embodiment of his desire for vengeance. [ 2 ]
Since he was young, Kegan was ostracized by the villagers of Rygann's Reach for being a son of a reaver and therefore being a symbol of bad luck in the village, insulting him with the moniker "reaver-bastard". Throughout Kegan's life the villagers subjected him to constant physical and verbal abuse, causing him to develop an aggressive and resentful personality. After his mother's death, he wished to take out his hatred towards the village for not grieving her death after she had overworked herself to death for their sake, though he blamed Rygann for stoking their beliefs in the first place. After the villagers witnessed his role in Zvanna's death, they mocked him again as he left the village. Even after going his separate ways, Kegan's bitterness from all of the torment his fellows subjected to him never faded, which allowed the World-Rune to tempt him into becoming Brand, leaving Kegan's personality as nothing but his resentment towards the world.
Krezia is Kegan's mother, whom was also shunned and outcasted by the village. She wanted to resign herself and Kegan to their cruel treatment fearing that they would be exiled and left to die in the wilderness. Due to her paranoia, she tried to urge her son not to make things worse for the both of them, but he remained defiant and said he refused to be a coward like her. Despite her protectiveness towards her son, Krezia was also abusive towards Kegan due to him being a constant reminder of her husband and his crime which caused them both to be outcasts in the first place. Even so, Kegan grieved his mother's death and burned down Rygann's Reach to avenge her and the cruelty suffered by her alongside himself.
Kegan first met Zvanna at the age of thirteen. She was the only person in the village who treated him kindly, so the two developed a friendship which later became a romance, though their relationship didn't last as Zvanna split up with him and later married Malvir, disappointing Kegan as he had lost the love of the only person who cared about him. Zvanna later told Kegan about Old Rygann's decree to exiled, feeling saddened towards him and offering him food to help him survive, though Kegan refused as he wanted to die in his exile. Later, Kegan's attempt to burn down the village ended up accidentally killing Zvanna and her family in the collateral damage, and he felt heavy remorse for causing her death.
Old Rygann perpetuated his people's beliefs that the Rodhe family was bad luck, playing a role in the abuse they were subjected to. He wished to exile both Krezia and Kegan but only kept them due to the former's abilities to heal the villagers. Once Krezia died, Rygann had Kegan exiled as he no longer had worth for the village. Of all the people whom mistreated him, Kegan hated Rygann the most due to his role in Krezia's death, so Kegan came to his hut, threatening him with a knife while admonishing him for the way he treated him and his mother, before using his lantern to burn down Rygann's hut and by extent the entire village to get revenge.
Brand was once a student of Ryze when he was still known as Kegan Rodhe. After Brand's transformation, they became enemies, with Brand intent on finding and gaining possession of another World Rune, which directly conflicts with Ryze's objective of making sure that nobody can find or use any other World Runes again.
The Burning Vengeance
By Ariel Lawrence , Laurie Goulding
Starring: Brand
Mentioned: Ryze
Short Story • 32 Minute Read
From the Ashes
By Aaron Dembski-Bowden
I can't do it.
Starring: Brand , Ryze
The Burning Lands
By Aaron Dembski-Bowden , Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Legends speak of an ageless mage with violet skin.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Blessed with massive biceps and an even bigger heart, Braum is a beloved Iceborn hero of the Freljord . Every mead hall north of Frostheld toasts his legendary strength and tells tales of how he felled a forest of oaks in a single night, and punched an entire mountain into rubble. With his shield, an enchanted vault door forged in ages past , Braum roams the frozen north as a cheerful protector, helping the vulnerable as he works toward his dream of a peaceful Freljord.
As a child, Braum was larger than other Freljordian youths. His mother taught him not to use his size to intimidate or bully and taught him that true courage was not about dominating, but helping those in need. One day, an enemy tribe was attacked by ice giants and Braum's mother did not hesitate to help them. Braum was confused why she would help their enemies, but thanks to her kindness, said tribe became allies. Braum then understood his mother's philosophy that all of the Freljord was a family, and he pledged to bring that family together. Braum helped people in his home town by saving them from danger and bringing hope wherever he goes.
Eventually, he realized that he was needed in more places than his home, so he bid his mother a tearful farewell as he went off on his quest. His heroism and good deeds inspired people all over the Freljord to tell stories about his feats, but some were unrealistic and exaggerated. One myth told that Braum's signature shield was an indestructible vault door made by the demigod Ornn, which he broke from its hinges by punching the rocks surrounding it in order to save a troll boy trapped within. Braum laughed heartily at the stories he'd heard about himself, but rather than refuting them, he embraces them, as he won't let the truth get in the way of inspiring others.
Braum later travelled to Rakelstake to hear the words of Ashe, a leader of the Avarosan , a tribe who followed the teachings Avarosa of the Three Sisters , whom Ashe is said to be the reincarnation of. There he also met Tryndamere, a barbarian who was determined to prove his worth by dominating every opponent he could face. In one duel, Tryndamere became increasingly lost in his fury and was actually about to kill his opponent, but Braum intervened by holding up his shield, and Tryndamere kept attacking the impenetrable shield until his rage subsided. After that, they became good friends, and it is even said that Braum was the one who introduced Tryndamere to Ashe, his now wife.
Braum has no specific allegiance, as he believes that all within the Freljord are brothers and sisters. He is reliant on Ashe as they both share a goal to unite the region, and the Avarosans have adopted him as their own. He often tells adoring children that he wishes for the Frejlord to settle their differences and then retire to become a poro herder.
Braum sees no-one as an enemy of his. However, the Frostguard, led by Lissandra, are hunting for him and he does not understand what they want from him. Still, he has fought against the Frostguard's forces numerous times in order to defend innocents threatened by them.
Sometime before the events of Ruined king, Braum hears of a sickness that is plaguing the Freljord's children. While visiting a village, one of the elders mentions that when he was a boy, his father told him of the waters of the Blessed Isles . Although warning Braum of the dangers of visiting the Isles, Braum sets sail for the Isles in search of a cure.
Upon reaching the Isles, his boat is attacked by the Black Mist and Braum is force to abandon ship, losing his shield. Thought dead, he was rescued by the Buhru. Once there, he helps the people of Bilgewater by bringing a massive sea creature into the docks with his bear hands. Illaoi , who had just returned from facing the Bloodharbor Ripper, investigates Braum's feat, amazed by his strength. Together with Illaoi, Miss Fortune , Ahri , Yasuo , and Pyke , he helps in stopping the Ruined King.
Once on the isles, they met Maokai , who, after healing him, offered his leaves — infused with the remaining Water of Life — to cure Braum's people. Together, the breached Thresh 's libraries of agony and took Gangplank back into custody. Returning to Bilgewater, Braum caught rumor of a strange shipwreck, with beams of blue light emerging from the sea. Recognizing the ship as his own, he found the ship and recovered his shield.
Following their triumph over Viego , The group celebrated their victory and parted ways. Braum returned to the Freljord, escorted by Yasuo, who was on a journey to Noxus in search of Riven .
Braum met Nunu and Willump when he saved them from a pack of arctic wolves.
Braum is a large, fair-skinned, bald man with comically large muscles and brown mustache. He has a large tattoo that covers from his left arm to his pectoral. He wears a large shoulder pad on his right shoulder that connects to a large belt buckle with a symbol of a ram's head, representing his connection to Ornn . He carries a large shield with a ram's head forged in the center.
As his title suggests, he has a heart of pure gold; Braum is a selfless, friendly man who enjoys helping people, simply because he likes being altruistic and hopes that his actions will inspire others. Ever since witnessing his mother's act of kindness on a neighboring tribe despite being enemies, he has taken his mother's teachings to heart and sees worth in all of the Freljord 's people, calling them all a family of brothers and sisters, and is able to make friends with anyone, regardless of their character. Braum's feats have inspired many myths, but Braum himself accepts the stories about himself no matter how inaccurate they may be, since he knows that people will be inspired to acts of generosity and kindness after his example.
Braum's original tribe has a strong tie to Ornn and hence his magic takes the shape of the ram. Ornn is responsible for forging the door that would later be wielded by Braum. However, Braum is not aware of this fact.
The Frostguard is hostile toward Braum.
Braum doesn’t hold any particular tribal allegiance with any tribe as he views all within the Freljord as brothers and sisters. However, he is particularly friendly toward Ashe's and the Avarosan , believing that Ashe may unite the Freljord.
Braum stopped Tryndamere 's fury when he first arrived at the Rakelstake and may have introduced him to Ashe .
During his travels, he has encountered Yuumi and Book of Thresholds . Yuumi rested on his shoulders for a time, protecting him from angry snow-spirits stirring up flurries in a hailstorm, while he brought her wriggling fish.
During the events of Ruined King , Braum joins Ahri , Yasuo , Miss Fortune , Illaoi and Pyke to the Shadow Isles to confront Viego in order to protect Bilgewater .
Illaoi's demeanor towards Braum implies that she finds Braum physically attractive. Over the course of the adventure, Braum and Illaoi develop a friendship. Illaoi would invite Braum to be more intimate and while he isn't averse to her advances, he declines because it is an inopportune time due to him needing to focus on the upcoming battles.
The Heart of the Freljord
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Braum
Mentioned: Ashe , Tryndamere
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
The Feats of Braum
In the mead halls of the Freljord, Braum's great feats are immortalized by murals painted on the walls. On many a frozen night, the locals gather to recount his tales amidst merriment and drink!
While defending her tribe from a brutal attack, a young warmother entrusts Braum with the safety of her infant child, before turning to face Lissandra's Frostguard alone.
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Tomb of the Troll Boy
By Leslee Sullivant Heintz
'Would you like to hear a bedtime story?'
Mentioned: Lissandra
Trial of the Poro
With the Freljord's winter closing in and an almighty battle raging around him, one brave PoroSquare Poro bounds on in his eternal search for snacks.
Short Story
By David Slagle
I wake up suddenly, like a story that starts in the middle of the action.
Starring: Nunu , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Trundle
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Fire Below the Mountain
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Braum , Volibear
The Magical Cat
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Yuumi
Mentioned: Book of Thresholds , Braum , Norra , Rek'Sai
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Journey to Thy Golden Mustache!
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Braum , Gragas , Ryze , Varus
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Nunu & Willump: Issue 1
By Ian St. Martin
This comic is an alternate/inspired story of how Nunu and Willump met.
Starring: Layka , Nunu , Willump
Mentioned: Braum
Nunu & Willump: Issue 4
Starring: Nunu , Willump , Ymaruq
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A failed experiment by the Black Rose, Briar’s uncontrollable bloodlust required a special pillory to focus her frenzied mind. After years of confinement, this living weapon broke free from her restraints and unleashed herself into the world. Now she’s controlled by no one—following only her hunger for knowledge and blood—and relishes the opportunities to let loose, even if reining back the frenzy isn’t easy.
The magical pillory created by the Black Rose to restrain and control Briar.
Briar was created near the end of Boram Darkwill's reign by the Black Rose's hemomancers. She was designed to be a new type of living weapon created purely out of blood magic and not requiring sustenance to survive.
Though designed to be a perfect assassin, Briar was completely driven by a hunger for blood, entering a constant state of hemomania. Despite this, the Black Rose sent Briar off on her first mission which ended in a gory failure as Briar entered a frenzy and killed everyone indiscriminately. Realizing she was too dangerous to control, the Black Rose created a special pillory with a hemolith gemstone to both restrain and focus her mind, taming her hemomanic instincts completely.
When the disgraced general Jericho Swain began his coup over the Noxian empire, the Black Rose quickly deployed many of their living weapons and experiments to fight him off. Briar was deployed among them and had the special job of killing Swain himself. Once she was given to a handler to help direct her, Briar was released from her pillory and immediately devoured him and everyone around her. Unfortunately, Swain managed to escape her bloody frenzy and his guards managed to capture her, restoring Briar's pillory. Now restrained, Swain was able to transfer Briar to a holding facility, locking her in a cell with many other living experiments that had been employed by the Black Rose.
Alone in her cell, Briar was unable to die from starvation and simply focused on her hunger. Initially thinking the many crazed wails of the neighboring cells were her own voices, Briar came to realize they were other living weapons like her that were captured. While listening to them however, she began to realize how boring and single-minded her neighbors were. Not wishing to become like them, Briar instead decided to seclude herself in solitude within her cell.
Briar sat in solitary confinement for years, finding entertainment in eavesdropping her guards' conversations, pestering them for raw meat and agonizing whether she should race her pet spiders or eat them. She would eventually wonder about the world outside of her cell and, while toying with her restraint, managed to loosen the hemolith in her pillory. She thought about the neighboring hemomaniacs and their simple-minded hunger for blood and decided that she wanted to be something more, finding a balance between being calm and frenzied.
Now with a newfound purpose, Briar wanted to finally see the outside world and devised a plan to escape her prison. Though the guards were used to her calling for attention, one particular guard was lured closer to Briar's cell, allowing her to attack him and feast on his blood, giving her enough strength to break out.
Briar gleefully escaping her cell.
Eager and excited to escape, Briar quickly befriended a young janitor who she mistakenly assumed was escaping with her. When she saw the prison guards roughly shove the janitor away to safety, Briar got angry and managed to break her pillory, going into a hemomanic frenzy and brutally defeating many of the guards while trying to follow her new janitor 'friend.' Once outside of the prison gates, Briar reconstructed her pillory and gazed at the outside world, free to explore the world beyond and feast on all the blood she wants. [ 2 ] Now, she wanders the streets of Noxus , learning more about the world beyond her cell and wishing to make new friends. The Black Rose, curious about Briar's unexpected development, have been secretly monitoring their living weapon for currently unknown purposes.
Briar is a pale humanoid girl with grey skin and white hair dyed with blood. Her eyes are cataracted with huge white pupils resembling the full moon and bright pink sclera. Briar's claws and teeth are incredibly sharp and she has pointed ears resembling a bat's. There are metal bolts on her shoulder-blades capable of emitting magical energy for propulsion. She appears very thin and almost emaciated but her bottom half is a bit heavier. She wears a black corset-like outfit adorned with many black, leather straps and some red, wax seals on the belts on her hip. Her bottom half simply has some black bandages covering her legs, leaving her feet bare with metal stakes stabbing through her ankles. She is restrained by an arch-shaped pillory adorned with many spikes and runic symbols that glow a dark red, held together by a hemolith gemstone in the middle of it.
In her hemomanic state, Briar shatters her pillory and her hair stands on end. Her face morphs into a savage expression with glowing red eyes and an extended tongue. The cuffs of her pillory form sharp red daggers, which can be empowered with blood magic to become longer blades made of blood.
Briar's defining characteristic is her never-ending hunger for blood, with her instincts drawing her to kill both her allies and enemies indiscriminately so she can eat them. After developing independence as a result of her imprisonment, she became excitable and carefree, always displaying a childlike sense of wonder. She has more control over her hunger and is more open to befriending others, though she is willing to unleash her hemomanic instincts if she needs to.
Briar was created by the Black Rose's hemomancers as a living weapon. After she proved to be too dangerous to keep unrestrained after her first mission failed, they bound her in a special pillory designed with a hemolith gemstone meant to keep her mind focused and under control. She was later deployed by the Black Rose to kill Jericho Swain during his coup, but lost control and was ultimately imprisoned by Swain and his guards.
After Briar broke out of Swain's holding facility, the Black Rose continue to monitor and spy on her as she wanders the streets of Noxus, intrigued by her sudden development into a more sentient being.
Briar was created with hemomancy, a magical art strongly tied to Vladimir, a founding member of the Black Rose. Though his exact relationship with Briar is unclear, it's heavily implied that he was mainly responsible for her creation. As her creator, Briar somewhat considers Vladimir her 'dad,' though she questions whether or not to actually call him that.
The annotated sketch used for Briar splash art states that she is at Vladimir's castle, acting as a guard dog. [ 3 ] Whether this is true for the characters is unclear, however it does imply a possible relationship between the two after Briar escape.
Boram Darkwill is the one who entrusted the Black Rose to create living weapons towards the end of his reign and mainly oversaw the creation of Briar as a perfect assassin. When the Black Rose deployed her to kill Jericho Swain during his coup, she failed and was captured by his guards, allowing Swain to eventually take over Noxus and kill Darkwill.
Briar was sent to kill Swain during his coup but proved too difficult to control as she managed to kill everybody around her except for her target. As Swain managed to escape, his guards captured and restored Briar's pillory restraint, transporting her to a secret holding facility with several other living weapons sent to kill him by the Black Rose. Eventually, Briar managed to escape the facility, killing many of the guards and now roaming the streets of Noxus.
Sion is another hemomancy experiment conducted by the Black Rose as they attempted to revive him using blood magic. As one of their many experiments, Sion was also imprisoned in the same facility as Briar, being held in a cell neighboring hers. Sion was one of the many experiments that annoyed Briar during her imprisonment, seeing him as boring and simple. Their exact relationship isn't entirely known, but Briar seems disappointed and annoyed to see that Sion escaped the facility as well.
The Restrained Hunger
By Max Folkman
Starring: Briar
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Swain
Feeding Frenzy
After years behind bars in Noxus, Briar is starving for some action.
Fight for Final City
When Anima Squad stands together, the Primordians don’t stand a chance.
Starring: Aatrox , Briar , Illaoi , Seraphine , Yasuo
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Renowned as its finest peacekeeper, Caitlyn is also Piltover’s best shot at ridding the city of its elusive criminal elements. She is often paired with Vi , acting as a cool counterpoint to her partner’s more impetuous nature. Even though she carries a one-of-a-kind hextech rifle, Caitlyn’s most powerful weapon is her superior intellect, allowing her to lay elaborate traps for any lawbreakers foolish enough to operate in the City of Progress.
Born into a wealthy and influential merchant clan, Caitlyn Kiramman swiftly learned the social graces of life in Piltover, but preferred to spend her time in the wilder lands outside it. Equally adept at mingling with the moneyed elite of the City of Progress or stalking a deer through the mud of the forest, she could confidently track a bird on the wing over the merchant districts, or put a shot through the eye of a hare at a hundred paces with her father’s repeater musket.
Caitlyn’s greatest assets, however, were her intelligence and willingness to learn from her parents, who reinforced her understanding of right and wrong, even within a life of comfort and privilege. Her mother was one of the highest comptrollers in Clan Kiramman, and would always warn Caitlyn of Piltover’s seductions, and its gilded promises that could harden the kindest heart. At first, Caitlyn paid little heed—to her, Piltover was a place of beauty and order that she cherished after each trip into the wild.
All that was to change one Progress Day, some years later...
Caitlyn returned to find her home ransacked and empty. The family retainers were all dead, and there was no trace of her parents. Caitlyn secured the house, and immediately set out to find them.
Tracking within the confines of a city was very different from hunting in the wild but, one by one, Caitlyn located the thugs who had invaded her family home. The trail eventually led her to a hidden safehouse, where her mother and father were being tortured for information. She rescued them under cover of darkness, and alerted the Piltover Wardens… though not one of the kidnappers they arrested knew the identity of the individual who had hired them—only a proxy with the initial C .
Caitlyn and her parents began to rebuild their lives… but something fundamental had changed. Her mother in particular could no longer face the politics and duplicity of clan life, and gave up her prestigious role, leaving something of a vacuum in the Kiramman leadership. And, though she loved her parents dearly, Caitlyn had no desire to take her mother’s place, nor to learn her father’s trade as an artificer.
Instead, her focus turned toward breaking through the web of intrigue surrounding the mysterious "C". Utilizing her hunting skills, she established herself as a private investigator, and quickly made a name for herself as someone who could find anything or anyone. In recognition of her self-made success, Caitlyn’s parents crafted her a hextech rifle of exquisite artifice, with greater accuracy than any musket. The weapon could take a variety of specialized shells, and be easily modified in the field.
After a particularly traumatic case involving a missing hextech device and a series of child abductions, Caitlyn was summoned by the Wardens.
She had been recommended by one of their number who had also developed something of an affinity for stranger cases—and their battle with a host of rogue chimerics in the employ of a lunatic chem-researcher driven mad by his own concoctions led to her being offered a formal position as a sheriff. At first, Caitlyn refused, but eventually came to realize that the Wardens’ resources could potentially get her closer to discovering the true identity of “C".
Caitlyn has since become a highly respected officer within the ranks of the Wardens, always striving to make the City of Progress a better and safer place. She recently partnered with a new recruit from Zaun, the brash and reckless Vi. How such an unlikely pairing came about—and been proven so effective—is the subject of wild rumor and tavern speculation among their fellow Wardens, as well as those they haul away to jail.
What Caitlyn doesn't know, however, is that "C" is also keeping tabs on her... especially as her investigations bring her ever closer to the truth.
Caitlyn's height is above average, standing 6'1 tall and slim but muscular build with pale skin, back-length dark blue hair, and piercing deep blue eyes. She is part Piltovan and Ionian.
Her outfit is a combination of white, dark blue, and bronze colors. She consists of a sheriff's uniform with a short navy blue skirt, long navy blue stockings with embellishments and bronze heeled boots and she always wears a matching top hat with the uniform which gives her a classy yet intimidating look.
Caitlyn is a woman who is very devoted to the community of Piltover. She enjoys her work as a sheriff, where she assists citizens and apprehends criminals while ensuring they have a fair trial, demonstrating that she is fair to both good and bad people.
She is strict, disciplined, and level-headed. She will use legal means to ensure that her work is meticulous and routine. These characteristics are what distinguishes her as an effective detective. However, Caitlyn can also be somewhat rebellious, as she has been known to break the rules at times in order to carry out her duty, such as allowing Vi, a woman from Zaun, to join her and chaperone her on missions. There have been rumors that her and Vi's relationship is more than just professional or a friendship.
Caitlyn has proven to be a very compassionate person after witnessing the state of Zaun; she works together with Vi to protect the city, and prevent the corruption from continuing.
Despite her maturity and elegance, she is a big fan of Seraphine and will drop all said traits to being giddy and excitable should she be around.
Caitlyn earned her position as sheriff for her incredible use of firearms, especially in the rifle that is her favorite weapon, she never misses and Vi described her aim as impeccable.
Caitlyn and Vi are partners-in-law-enforcement. They have been working together for a long time so much that their relationship is speculated to be more than friendship and professional. They've been chasing after Jinx who is Vi's sister and a dangerous criminal who's been wreaking havoc in Piltover. They managed to stop a turmoil caused by Urgot and his followers, caught him and later put him in an isolated island prison. The duo later fight him again when his followers try to free him from his prison.
The Sheriff of Piltover
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Caitlyn
Mentioned: Vi
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Short Story
Child of Zaun
By Ian St. Martin
What's the difference between law and order?
Starring: Caitlyn , Urgot , Vi
Short Story • 27 Minute Read
Progress Day
By Graham McNeill
Tamara forces herself to rise early - an easy habit to get into when the earth is your bed and fallen leaves the only blanket. Less so when the mattress is stuffed with goose down and the sheets woven from soft cotton. The curtains are pulled back, and warm light pools on the floor of her third floor boarding room. She'd closed the curtains on her first night in Piltover and had slept two hours past dawn, which worried her so much, she has never closed them since.
Starring: Caitlyn , Tamara
Mentioned: Camille , Vi
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Thrill of the Chase
Even three bells after the Sun Gate had closed, Piltover was still full of life - life that was currently getting in her way. Caitlyn sprinted down Mainspring Crescent, weaving a path between midnight revelers strolling down the fashionable promenade of cafes and bistros. The supper clubs were emptying, as were the nearby theaters inside the Drawsmith Arcade, so this street was going to get a whole lot busier. If they didn't catch up to Devaki soon, they were going to lose him.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
Interrogation 101
Vi stifled a yawn as she moved through the gilded chamber at the heart of Piltover's Hall of Law. Dawn was less than an hour old, and the place was quiet. A few drunks were sleeping it off in the shaming cells, and she'd heard there were a couple of chem-augmented thugs in the deeper, more secure lock-ups. She'd ask around later, see if she could provide any insight as to what they were doing up in Piltover.
Starring: Vi
Mentioned: Caitlyn
The Loose Cannon
Starring: Jinx
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Vi
The Piltover Enforcer
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Jinx
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Cupcakes 4 Heartaches
Play League of Legends to collect ingredients for Caitlyn's top secret cupcake recipe!
Starring: Amumu , Caitlyn , Vi
Dawn by Raid
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Leona , Wukong , Yone
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Lunar Feast
Mythmaking is hungry work. Thankfully, you and your elite team of chefs are ready to cook up a storm in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Feast!
Starring: Caitlyn , Camille , Gwen , Seraphine , Zoe
Lunar Guardian
There was an age when darkness smothered all hope. A traveler arrived, late into that twilight hour, bearing with him the first light of dawn.
Starring: Caitlyn , Morgana , Wukong
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
One Simple Rule
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lucian , Qiyana , Yasuo
Unite Against The Dark
Hear the story of Lunar Empress Lux, Lunar Guardian Nasus, and Lunar Guardian Warwick as we celebrate the Year of the Dog in League of Legends.
Starring: Caitlyn , Lux , Morgana , Nasus , Warwick
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
We're Taking Over.
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Weaponized to operate outside the boundaries of the law, Camille is the Principal Intelligencer of Clan Ferros —an elegant and elite agent who ensures the Piltover machine and its Zaunite underbelly runs smoothly. Adaptable and precise, she views sloppy technique as an embarrassment that must be put to order. With a mind as sharp as the blades she bears, Camille's pursuit of superiority through hextech body augmentation has made many wonder if she is now more machine than woman.
Most of the family’s wealth came through harvesting a rare crystal from the brackern, a creature native to Shurima. These hex-crystals—or “first crystals”—contained power normally only wielded by those born with innate magical ability. After Camille’s great-great aunt lost an arm during an early expedition, her sacrifice inspired the Ferros family motto: “For family, will I give.”
The brackern were a limited resource, and Camille's family had to augment the crystals they’d accumulated. Utilizing shadow investments in chemtech and runic alchemy, they developed less powerful, but easier to make, synthetic hex-crystals.
Yet there were consequences—synthetic crystal manufacturing has long been rumored to heavily contribute to the Zaun Gray. Furthermore, it was only through espionage, intimidation, and murder that Clan Ferros held its monopoly on this priceless commodity, and ensured its uninterrupted production in Zaun, maintaining the family’s place in Piltover’s illustrious Bluewind Court.
As the eldest surviving child of Clan Ferros’ masters, Camille received every educational advantage. She had exceptional tutors, learning to speak several foreign languages and play the cellovinna at a concert-master level. Camille also learned to read and write Ancient Shuriman while assisting her father on digs in the Odyn Valley.
Traditionally, one of the younger children would become their family's principal intelligencer, working with the clan master to secure their family’s success by any means necessary. However, Camille's younger brother, Stevan, had a weak constitution, and so Camille took his place. He jealously watched her embrace her additional training, and she became quite adept in combat, reconnaissance, and interrogation.
When Camille was twenty-five, augmented Zaunite thugs attacked her and her father, intent on stealing lucrative trade secrets. Camille’s father succumbed to his wounds, and in anguish, her mother died soon after. Stevan became clan master, and he doubled the clan’s research in human hextech augmentation, eager to prove himself as a strong leader.
After a year of mourning, Stevan oversaw the induction of Hakim Naderi—a promising young crystallographer from the Shuriman coastal city of Bel'zhun—as the family’s lead artificer.
Camille requested hextech augmentation from Hakim to push her beyond her human limitations. Hakim was instantly enamored with her, and they bonded over the preparations and late night stories of Shurima… and eventually, Camille returned Hakim's feelings. Their affair grew reckless, as they knew the surgery would conclude their time together. Hakim would move onto other projects, and Camille would once again be fully committed to the principal intelligencer’s duties. More than that, Hakim worried that in carving away Camille's heart, he might remove her humanity.
Days before Camille's operation, Hakim proposed marriage and begged her to run away with him. For the first time in her life, Camille was torn.
Stevan had no such conflict, as he needed Camille to execute his vision. When he learned of the secret proposal, he devised a plan—the next time Camille and Hakim were together, Stevan set himself up to be attacked. When she saw her brother bruised and bloodied, Camille recognized what could happen when her attention was divided.
Hakim pleaded with Camille, but she wouldn’t listen. For family, she would give. She ended her relationship with Hakim, insisting her surgery go forward.
He was the only one who could safely perform the operation, and so he excised Camille’s heart and replaced it with hextech—then resigned. When she awoke, the lab she and Hakim had shared was abandoned.
Camille focused on her work. She took on further refinements, including bladed legs, grapple-spindled hips, and other, minor hex-augmentations, leading some to wonder how much of the woman was left. And as Clan Ferros amassed more power and wealth, Camille’s missions became darker and more deadly.
Thanks to her hextech heart, she did not age—but the years were not so kind to her brother. Yet even as Stevan's body grew more frail, his iron grip on the clan remained.
Eventually, Camille uncovered the depth of Stevan's betrayal, and realized his machinations were no longer in the family’s best interests. In that moment, she discarded the last sentiment she felt toward her brother.
After installing her favorite grand-niece as clan master, Camille now runs the family's public affairs as well as its more shady operations. As a solver of… difficult problems , she embraces her more-than-human transformation and the cutting judgment it affords her—but a strange, mournful keening in her hextech heart may yet prove a troubling portent.
Regardless, Camille refuses to sit idle, and gains invigoration from well-executed industrial espionage, a fresh-brewed cup of tea, and long walks in the Gray.
During the events of Convergence, Camille is entrusted with a mission which is to stop the Poingdestres, a chymobarons family which has carried out illegal and extremely dangerous experiments at the expense of the Hextech crystals of the Ferros clan.
After finding out that Ekko was getting into the Poingdestres' investigation, she herself went to confront him and tell him that the only way to stop him from interfering further was to kill him and the two began to fight.Ekko managed to incapacitate Camille. Future Ekko at that moment telling her that he had met Camille, she immediately deduced that there were two Ekkos, who were trying to stop the Poingdestres chemobarons just like her and proposes that they work together. Future Ekko, upsetting Present Ekko , to which Camille proceeded to leave to find the remaining Poingdestres.
During the fight against Jinx, she was about to throw explosives at Ekko but at that moment Camille appeared and cut the explosives with her legs leaving Jinx very surprised, then Camille proceeded to attack Jinx. At first Jinx took the lead hitting camille on the head, but Ekko used his Z press to rewind that moment to tell Camille to protect her head, then after a few hits she managed to incapacitate Jinx but due to a slight distraction she managed to escape .
Camille asked Ekko if there was any way to contact his Future Self and Ekko told him that there was a way and to play along, Ekko called his future self and told him that Camille was going to kill him for letting the Poigndestres go, Camille proceeded to pretend to attack him with her blades and Future Ekko appeared at that moment to stop Camille from landing the final blow on Ekko.
Future Ekko asked what was happening and realized that he had been set up, Camille proceeded to threaten him to reveal his plan unless he wanted her to get the information out of him herself. Future Ekko said that the only way to avoid the catastrophe was to destroy the reserves of Syntixi and the reserves of Hextech crystals in the Ferros clan vaults at the same time, which horrified Camille and Ekko. Future Ekko subsequently escaped to search for more Syntixi, Ekko asked Camille to go with him to Zaun to try to find Future Ekko's hideout and discover his plan.
Camille is an elegant-looking woman with beautiful human and robotic features; she is very tall due to having, instead of legs, large prosthetic blades; her hips are exaggeratedly large, housing her grappling lines; her facial features are pale white skin, high cheekbones, thick lips, short platinum white hair, and piercing electric blue eyes. She wears a cyborg armor of black, dark blue and dark gray colors that covers the entirety of her body aside from her face.
Camille is obsessed with her work, enhancing her body to levels far from a normal human through hextech body augmentations. She's cold and ruthless, not allowing any emotion to interfere with her duties. Being born into one of the most powerful families in Piltover, Camille is an aristocrat with an intense loathing of carelessness and mistakes. The virtues she values most are: Patience and Precision.
Despite her lack of emotions, Camille can still show signs of empathy and teamwork, even collaborating with Zaunites.
She has encountered and fought against Jhin during his assassination mission in Zaun which affected her clan's business. What happened to Camille afterward is still unknown, however.
The Steel Shadow
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Camille
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Severed Ties
By Phillip Vargas , Ariel Lawrence
Camille must stop a secret alliance that threatens the fragile balance of power in Piltover.
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Tea With The Gray Lady
The first sound I heard was the scrape of sharp metal against rock. My sight was blurred, my vision still swimming in murky darkness, but something in the back of my mind registered it, that knife-edge slide on wet stone. The rasp was the same as my mason when he marks out which rock to cut away from the cliff. It set my teeth on edge. The fog in my brain receded, but it left me with only one panicked thought as I strained at the ropes binding my hands:
Short Story • 26 Minute Read
The Weakest Heart
“You should have killed her.”
Short Story • 27 Minute Read
Progress Day
By Graham McNeill
Tamara forces herself to rise early - an easy habit to get into when the earth is your bed and fallen leaves the only blanket. Less so when the mattress is stuffed with goose down and the sheets woven from soft cotton. The curtains are pulled back, and warm light pools on the floor of her third floor boarding room. She'd closed the curtains on her first night in Piltover and had slept two hours past dawn, which worried her so much, she has never closed them since.
Starring: Caitlyn , Tamara
Mentioned: Camille , Vi
Zed: Issue 5
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Lunar Feast
Mythmaking is hungry work. Thankfully, you and your elite team of chefs are ready to cook up a storm in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Feast!
Starring: Caitlyn , Camille , Gwen , Seraphine , Zoe
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Answer To Her Light
By Unknown Author
The omens are clear: The coven has reassembled in the name of the old gods. Eclipse Leona is ready to meet them.
Starring: Ivern , Leona
Mentioned: Camille , Lissandra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
The Shadows Beckon
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Swift and lethal, Evelynn is one of the most deadly - and expensive - assassins in all of Runeterra. Able to merge with shadows at will, she patiently stalks her prey, waiting for the right moment to strike. While Evelynn is clearly not entirely human, and her heritage remains unclear, it is believed that she hails from the Shadow Isles - though her link with that tortured realm remains shrouded in mystery.
Starring: Evelynn
Mentioned: Camille , Singed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Cassiopeia is a deadly creature bent on manipulating others to her will. Youngest and most beautiful daughter of the noble Du Couteau family of Noxus , she ventured deep into the crypts beneath Shurima in search of ancient power. There, she was bitten by a gruesome tomb guardian, whose venom transformed her into a viper-like predator. Cunning and agile, Cassiopeia now slithers under the veil of night, petrifying her enemies with her baleful gaze.
Born as a noble of Noxus , Cassiopeia Du Couteau had a sharp mind and wit at an early age, and very early on in her life the Du Couteau family moved to Urzeris , Shurima . While her older sister Katarina trained under their father Marcus to be an assassin, Cassiopeia was taught by her mother Soreana how to use a position of authority. One day, Soreana fell ill as a result of an assassination attempt through poisoning her hairbrush. With Marcus removing the house staff, Cassiopeia tended to her mother, where the two developed a closer bond as Soreana recovered.
When Marcus and Katarina returned to Noxus, Cassiopeia remained in Urzeris with her mother. Soreana told her the truth that she was part of the Black Rose cult, which had managed to influence Shurima. As Cassiopeia grew to adulthood, Soreana mentored her to be a cunning and manipulative figure who could use those around her as tools before disposing of them when given the chance. Cassiopeia was initiated into the Black Rose by stealthily assassinating those who plotted Soreana's death.
After gaining her role with the Black Rose's plans, Cassiopeia raided Shuriman ruins with the help of a Shuriman mercenary named Sivir . When Soreana received the news that her husband honored Jericho Swain's coup against Boram Darkwill , she realized that the Black Rose would be in danger, so she instructed Cassiopeia to obtain Shurima's godly power. Swearing to her mother's oath, Cassiopeia raided the underground Tomb of the Forgotten with Sivir. She backstabbed Sivir with her dagger before reaching for the artifact, the Chalikar to open the doors to the tomb and gain the God-Warriors' power of Ascension.
However, Cassiopeia was bitten by a stone snake guardian which guarded the tomb, painfully transforming her into a half-human, half-snake hybrid. Falling into despair, Cassiopeia mourned her lost life for weeks, but eventually moved on and accepted her new form, hoping for her newfound Ascended magic to have potential for the Black Rose.
Getting used to her new form while overlooking Urzeris, Cassiopeia felt an urge to hunt down a Noxian soldier she held contempt for. Lurking out of his view, she admonished him for killing children for drake meat for profit and killing three people while leaving them unrecognizable. Calling out to her to show herself, Cassiopeia revealed her monstrous appearance to him. She wrapped her tail around the soldier, feeling sadistic satisfaction towards his pain. He recognized her as Lady Cassiopeia and taunted her about how she lost her nobility. In response, Cassiopeia released all of her pent-up emotions as she petrified him into stone. Feeling satisfaction that her new cursed form allowed her to take what she wanted, she smashed the petrified soldier as she eagerly plotted to attack her next victim.
Cassiopeia is a slim woman who wears only a Shuriman headdress, bra and armbands on her elbows. After being transformed by her curse, her legs turned into a long green snake tail merged into her body with a golden belt, and her fingers have become golden with an adorned jewel on the back of each hand. She has black sclera with glowing lime irises and slitted pupils. She has snake-like fangs in place of teeth and a forked tongue.
Cassiopeia is a treacherous, manipulative schemer who takes any opportunity she can to further her goals. She has an individualistic philosophy, seeing others as tools to exploit. After transforming into her cursed form, she initially felt disgust towards her new body and despair from losing her old life as a noble, but embraced her new form as a way to enact her goals herself. Though Cassiopeia's new capabilities have made her sadistic and predatory, she still has moral standards and prefers to hunt those more evil than herself, such as when she admonished and killed a Noxian soldier whom committed inhumane crimes.
Cassiopeia is Katarina's younger sister. The sisters and the Blade's Shadow are members of Noxian noble house Du Couteau, whose head (General Marcus, Noxus' finest assassin) is missing and presumed dead.
Cassiopeia was initiated into the Black Rose order by her mother Soreana. One of her missions tasked by her mother was to retrieve godlike powers that had been the key to Shurima's supremacy in ancient times to help the order defeat Swain's Trifarix . Her father and sister supported Swain , which was considered a betrayal by Cassiopeia and her mother. Other members of her house may not be aware of their connection to the organization.
Cassiopeia hired Sivir to raid ancient Shuriman ruins and later stabbed her to steal her blade in order to open an ancient tomb. Renekton and Xerath were released thanks to Cassiopeia.
The Serpent's Embrace
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Cassiopeia
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Sivir , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Shedding of Skin
By Rayla Heide
Cassiopeia reclined against the crenelated rooftop, and gazed over the winding alleys and crowded streets of Urzeris. A Noxian possession for years, the coastal city still refused to completely embrace its new identity—it felt ancient, and quietly resistant to the future.
Katarina: Issue 4
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Talon
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Jarvan III , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Zed
The Battle Mistress
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
The Magus Ascendant
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
The Sinister Blade
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Katarina
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Marcus Du Couteau , Soreana Du Couteau , Talon
By Odin Austin Shafer
Sivir's throat felt like it was coated in a layer of broken glass. The cracked flesh of her lips burned. Her eyes refused to focus. I've given them more than enough time to move on.
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Short Story
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The yordle pilot Corki loves two things above all others: flying, and his glamorous mustache... though not necessarily in that order. After leaving Bandle City , he settled in Piltover and fell in love with the wondrous machines he found there. He dedicated himself to the development of flying contraptions, leading an aerial defense force of seasoned veterans known as the Screaming Yipsnakes. Calm under fire, Corki patrols the skies around his adopted home, and has never encountered a problem that a good missile barrage couldn't solve.
When Heimerdinger and his yordle colleagues migrated to Piltover, they embraced science as a way of life, and they immediately made several groundbreaking contributions to the techmaturgical community. What yordles lack in stature, they make up for with industriousness. Corki, the Daring Bombardier, gained his title by test-piloting one of these contributions - the original design for the Reconnaissance Operations Front-Line Copter, an aerial assault vehicle which has become the backbone of the Bandle City Expeditionary Force (BCEF). Together with his squadron - the Screaming Yipsnakes - Corki soars over Valoran, surveying the landscape and conducting aerial acrobatics for the benefit of onlookers below.
Corki is the most renowned of the Screaming Yipsnakes for remaining cool under fire and exhibiting bravery to the point of madness. He served several tours of duty, often volunteering for missions that would take him behind enemy lines, either gathering intelligence or delivering messages through hot zones. He thrived on danger, and enjoyed nothing more than a good dogfight in the morning. More than just an ace pilot, Corki also made several modifications to his copter, outfitting it with an arsenal of weapons which some speculate were more for show than functionality. When open hostilities ceased, Corki was forced into a retirement, which he felt ''cut the engines and clipped the wings.’’ He tried to make do with stunt flying and canyon running, but it was never the same without the refreshing smell of gunpowder streaking through the air around him.
Corki is a stout yordle with a long, white mustache and a pink nose. His other features are almost always obscured by an aviator hat and goggles. He wears the practical attire of an old-timey airplane pilot.
Corki is a quirky character, being obsessed with mechanical flight and seeming to view all other topics through that lens. He is an energetic but eccentric presence, almost single-mindedly devoted to his craft.
Corki is friend with Lulu , Teemo and Tristana . Graves captured Teemo for the bounty on yordles while Twisted Fate refuses because "messing with Yordles brings a whole heap of trouble." He then fought Corki, Lulu and Tristana who came to save Teemo, which ended up in Graves being turned into a frog and the Yordles escaping.
The Daring Bombardier
By Unknown Author
Starring: Corki
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story
A Bandle Scout Mission Journal
By Numerous creators
Another Bandle Scout mission badge complete.
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Corki , Kennen , Lulu , Tristana , Von Yipp
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Swift Scout
By River 'TenPaces' Jaffe , Elan 'Qulani' Stimmel
Mentioned: Ava , Corki , Kled , Tristana
Cats Versus Dogs (Video)
This April Fools’, leave it all on the show floor.
Starring: Corki , Fizz , Rengar , Yorick
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
There is no greater symbol of Noxian might than Darius , the nation's most feared and battle-hardened leader. Rising from humble origins to become the Hand of Noxus, he cleaves through the empire's enemies—many of them Noxians themselves. Knowing that he never doubts his cause is just, and never hesitates once his axe is raised, those who stand against the commander of the Trifarian Legion can expect no mercy.
Born in Basilich , Darius was as an orphan alongside his younger brother Draven . He struggled hard to provide for both himself and his brother and protected the latter from anyone who tried to harm him, even the city guard. Darius spent a majority of his childhood fighting for survival, with constant fights leaving permanent scars on himself. He and Draven were friends with a girl named Quilletta Varn , whom saved him from falling off a cliff that they were climbing. Darius developed a relationship with Quilletta, having ambitions to conquer the world alongside her.
When an Noxian army led by their captain Cyrus invaded Basilich, the three children hid atop a rooftop. Quilletta was reluctant towards the harsh choice between joining Noxus or being killed, but Darius contemplated paying the consequences since he didn't want to leave Draven behind. To his horror, Draven attempted to throw a knife to fight them but ended up hitting Cyrus' flag, leading to the three to get apprehended by the soldiers. After hearing Draven's boasts, Cyrus invited the kids to ally with Noxus.
Growing to adulthood in Noxus, Darius married Quilletta and became a father to two: Decius and Invetia . He and Draven served as soldiers under Cyrus' warhost, engaging in many war campaigns and stopping rebellions against Boram Darkwill's throne. Darius quickly rose through the ranks, embodying the values of Noxus through his aggression, bravery and patriotism. In one battle, after a general ordered a retreat, Darius saw him as a coward and beheaded him out of defiance, rallying the fearful troops and securing a victory. He was rewarded by being promoted to senior commander, which attracted many Noxians to join his army but he only accepted those with the greatest strength and discipline. Feared to the point where cities surrendered at the sight of Darius' banners, his victory against the Varju got him promoted to the Hand of Noxus by Darkwill himself.
As the new Hand of Noxus, Darius and his army were sent to the Freljord to conquer it, enduring countless assassination attempts and a capture from the Winter's Claw before ending in a stalemate after a long, grueling conflict. He headed back to Noxus to request a reconsolidation of the military, but found that Darkwill had been assassinated and usurped by Jericho Swain , as part of his coup which even Draven had backed. Darius began to respect Swain's accomplishments and was prepared to serve him, but he gave Darius a place in the Trifarian Legion , representing the Noxian principle of Might alongside Swain as Vision and the Faceless as Guile. Despite this, not all Noxus military leaders respect him. The most notably is Ambessa Merdada who has low opinions on him as she calls him an arrogant brute with no cunnings.
Despite his great achievements, his personal life started to suffer as his son, Decius perished in a campaign in Frejolrd much to Quilleta's grief but he was proud of it since his son died for the glory of the Empire. This fact damaged his marriage as Quilleta became isolated from both Darius and her daughter who sided with Darius.
Eventually, Quilletta was starting to become disillusioned towards Noxus after witnessing the horrific aftermath of Singed 's chemical bomb in Ionia, which caused her arm to be amputated as a result of the poison, and their son Decius dying in the campaign against the Freljord. Quilletta expressed her worries to Darius, but he dismissed her saying that Noxus required mercilessness and sacrifice because the empire had to conquer and losing one city would be severely detrimental. Finally having enough, Quilletta snapped from her grief towards Decius' death only to be killed by Invetia, believing her to be weak. Horrified, Darius asked Invetia about her merciless act, and she cited the Noxian philosophy and how she learned it from him.
Darius is a large, bulky man with a serious, intense face and middle-aged features. He has fair skin and swept-back black hair with a white streak. His eyes are variously portrayed as either red, green or gray. He also has a long, straight scar over his left eye.
Darius wears heavy full plate armor that leaves only his head and his upper arms exposed. It is dark gray, intricately crafted, and accentuated with spikes around the shoulders and thighs. It also features a long cape and loin cloth, both blood red, symbolizing Noxus.
His weapon of choice is a massive two-handed ax, viciously curved and forged with a symbol of a skull where the blade meets the handle.
Stern and warlike, Darius is unwaveringly dedicated to Noxus and its ideals. He is a soldier without parallel, balancing ruthless mettle with sound strategy. He stands confident and firm, showing no tolerance for weakness or cowardice. Despite his intimidating demeanor, however, Darius is also deeply committed to fostering the strength of others wherever he can find it, elevating those he finds deserving and crushing those who have not earned their status.
Darius was accoladed by Darkwill, but allied with Swain because he sees in the Master Tactician someone who can make Noxus rise.
In Darius' eyes necromancy is cheating death to justify one's undeserved continued survival. [ 1 ] Yet for him, Sion's legacy is an example. Though when he gazes upon the Undead Juggernaut, he sees what might become of himself should he no longer be useful to the empire (or rather, too useful, should death come knocking). [ 2 ]
Darius holds no grudge against Garen . However, he considers him a fool bound by a meaningless code of "honor." Despite this, he would relish killing Garen simply to prove Noxian Might crushes all, even Demacian Perseverance , Courage , and Justice —especially a paragon of said values. [ 3 ]
Darius and his younger brother Draven are renowned as the "Blood Brothers." Family ties are strong and can serve as the basis for one's strength, yet Darius sees self-serving aristocrats using theirs as a crutch for their weakness, and as a result, the perpetuation of stagnant leadership that needs to be removed and replaced. With this in mind, one cannot tell if Darius providing and caring for Draven during their childhood came out of love or even mere pragmatism. The comic Blood of Noxus seems to imply the former.
He has 2 children (Decius and Invetia Varn ) mothered by his former lover, Quilletta Varn . They never married given the pragmatism of Noxus, and knowing the likely trajectory of their lives at war. [ 4 ] Both their children followed their parents's footsteps in the Noxus military but Decius perished in combat, leaving Quilletta in grief. She was murdered by their daughter Invetia during the Battle of Basilich .
While it was never explicitly confirmed that they are his children, it was heavily implied due to the relationship between Darius and Quilletta as well as some localizations using terms indicative of blood relation.
Seeing the approval of the slaughtering of innocents by Singed and Emystan made Quilletta Varn grow more disillusioned about the empire's ambitions, which led her to rebel against the empire, among the other events of the story.
During a Black Mist attack caused by Viego at The Immortal Bastion , Darius was temporarily possessed and fought Samira before the Mist retreated.
The Hand of Noxus
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Darius
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Draven , Swain
After Victory
Darius and his victorious warhosts demand that the king of Urtis surrender his throne, offering every citizen—from the highest noble to the lowliest servant—a place in the Noxian empire.
Starring: Darius , Farron
Blood of Noxus
By Graham McNeill
In all Runeterra, there is no army more feared than that of the Noxian empire. In all Noxus, there is no soldier more respected than Darius. Of all the commandments that have kept Noxus strong, one rule stands above all others: Loyalty is everything.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Invetia Varn , Quilletta Varn , Tamara
Mentioned: Singed
The wolves of the Freljord are savage predators. But they've never encountered a man like this.
Noxian Brotherhood
By Jared Rosen
Draven - Another victory for the Glorious Executioner.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Swain
Short Story
Proclamation of the Trifarix
By Laurie Goulding
Citizens of Noxus, I bring word from the capital!
Starring: Darius , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
The Hand of Noxus (Video)
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
The Principles of Strength
My name is Alyssa Roshka Gloriana val-Lokan. For almost two millennia, my ancestors ruled the Delverhold as kings.
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , Kindred
The Winterspike Road
By Laura Michet
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
League Animation Workshop
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Darius , Lux , Miss Fortune , Zed
Tales of Runeterra
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Glorious Executioner
Starring: Draven
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Swain
The Whispering Doodad
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
Thorns of the Black Rose
I smile, playing my part. “It is the simplest of things,” I tell him, “to hide in plain sight.”
Starring: Brannin Granth , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Mordekaiser , Swain
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Battle of the God-Kings
Starring: Darius , Garen
Music Video
By Numerous creators
It’s your time to be legendary.
Starring: Cithria , Darius , Zed
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Fiora , Vladimir
Save the Celebration
Honor the past, protect the future. Every year, a beast of legend arrives to threaten the Lunar New Year, and every year, a team of heroes is chosen to stand as guardians over the celebration.
Starring: Alistar , Annie , Darius , Fiora , Jarvan IV
Solo Darius
It's easy crushing top lane when you're SoloRenektonOnly. It’s On.
Starring: Darius , Kayn , Thresh , Vi
With Hell Before Them
June 7th, 1868
Starring: Ashe , Darius , Hecarim
Mentioned: Lucian , Thresh
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Bearing her crescent moonblade , Diana fights as a warrior of the Lunari , a faith all but quashed in the lands around Mount Targon . Clad in shimmering armor the color of winter snow at night, she is a living embodiment of the silver moon's power. Imbued with the essence of an Aspect from beyond Targon's towering summit, Diana is no longer wholly human, and struggles to divine her power and purpose in this world.
Though Diana's true birthplace is unknown, she was found by a group of Solari hunters when they discovered her swaddled between her dead parents, both of whom were distant travelers that were claimed by Mount Targon's cold temperatures. Discovering that the baby was still alive, the hunters quickly brought her into their temple and dedicated her, raising Diana as a member of the Rakkor , also known as the Tribes of the Last Sun.
Like all in the Solari faith, Diana underwent rigorous physical and religious training as a child. She was determined to understand the ways and traditions of the Solari, trying to piece together the reasoning and logic behind their beliefs in the sun. Diana would spend many nights digging through the temple's libraries, relying on the pale moonlight in the night sky to illuminate the texts. Paradoxically, Diana's pursuit for answers brought more questions than answers, as her teachers' vague and aphoristic replies provided her with nothing.
While continuing her search, Diana began to notice that some tomes had entire chapters torn out of them, with all references to the moon seemingly missing from all Solari texts. Questioning the Solari faith lead to Diana facing harsh punishments by her teachers, who scolded her for her doubt in the sun. At the same time, Diana's troublesome relationship with her own instructors lead to even her own fellow acolytes shunning her, causing Diana to grow cold and bitter against her fellow classmates who considered her a strange outsider.
At the age of thirteen, Diana went under the tutelage of priestess Elcinae, who witnessed a massive argument Diana had with a fellow priestess named Nycinde. Despite this, Elcinae saw the potential in Diana's skills in rhetoric and logic and urged her to train her skills in a way that still respects the teachings of the Solari.
The next year, Diana questioned her Oratory class instructor Nemyah on why they call the night " The Darkness ", arguing that the night is not truly dark and instead lit by a gentler, cooler light in the form of the moon. Because of this, Nemyah demanded she held her tongue and punished her for being disruptive. As punishment, Diana had her speaking privileges revoked from the class. Catching news of this, Elcinae wrote to Diana to urge restraint when questioning the logic of the Solari as well as noting that she would talk with her instructor Nemyah about reinstating her speaking privileges in her Oratory class.
The day after, Diana's Oratory class discussed the topic of the upcoming Festival of the Nightless Eve, hearing her classmate Sebina's speech about her excitement for her first Nightless Eve. Diana, rightfully annoyed, questioned why she was being punished while the rest of her classmates get to discuss pointless topics such as the festival.
Surprisingly, a fellow acolyte named Leona , who was known as being the most faithful and dedicated Solari student, volunteered to argue against Sebina by combatting her emotion with a different one. Though it wasn't a very captivating argument, Diana liked her effort nonetheless. On top of that, Leona described the night as somber rather than evil, which quickly caught Diana's attention. Continuing off of Leona's statement, Diana began to ask questions about the darkness and state her criticisms of the upcoming festival, which quickly angered Nemyah.
A few days later, Leona passed notes with Diana as the two discussed plans to practice Oratory studies together after their Middle Rakkoric instruction class. Diana questioned why she would ask her of all people to help, as she was known to be the class troublemaker, but Leona insisted that she was the most skilled at constructing logical arguments in the class despite her disagreements with their instructors. Along with that, Leona offered to help Diana in return and share some advice of her own if she wanted. Diana, though still suspicious of whether or not this was some kind of joke Leona was trying to play on her, agreed to help since she had no other assignments of her own to work on.
Diana, not wanting to get Leona in trouble for talking to her, decided not to meet in person and instead the two swapped notes with each other. Despite the fact that Leona was extremely faithful to the Solari, Diana admired her bravery and humbleness by approaching her for help. Leona was one of the first few classmates to ever show her some form of kindness and she liked the idea of having someone to talk to, but she questioned why Leona would continue associating with her.
One day, the two swapped notes once more as Diana examined and discussed Leona's arguments for her upcoming presentation, noting that she was definitely improving. However, the two had a slight disagreement on why anything outside of the Sun was considered evil, as Leona was content with accepting it as truth while Diana believed they should dig deeper into the subject. Aside from that, Leona also noticed that Diana hadn't been practicing with her shield and offered to practice with her, which Diana denied as she felt that using a shield was too distracting and weighed her down, noting that she felt well defended as long as she was on Leona's team.
During the presentation, Diana joined in the debate with Leona despite her speaking privileges having been revoked. When her instructor Priestess Nemyah ordered her to be quiet, Diana instead proposed a rebuttal and suggested that not everything belongs to the sun, which was considered blasphemous to the Solari. As punishment, Diana was sentenced to three days of standing in the sun with no shade or water until sunset as a reminder of its merciful judgement.
By the third day of her punishment, Diana was resentful but still didn't completely forsake her Solari faith, though she started questioning whether or not sun even loved her at all as a follower. Though she was punished, she thought the debate she had with Leona during her presentation was worth it as that was the closest they'd have to talking together in public. Though the Festival of the Nightless Eve was coming, Diana planned to instead climb and watch the stars at night, as Leona was the only person she would consider going to the festival with. Diana believed that, because of her low social status and after their public debate, she couldn't possibly want to go to the festival with her.
Leona finally asked Diana if she would attend the Festival of the Nightless Eve with her, but instead told her that she simply won't be attending the festival, which saddened Leona as she questioned why she wouldn't. Diana, resentful from the punishment she endured, accused Leona of simply trying to preach to her, and never seeing her as a real friend. Diana, despite being on the verge of tears, got angry and yelled at Leona as the two got in a very loud, heated argument before being dragged off and reprimanded by Priestess Thalaia, sentenced to scrubbing the floors of the entire temple as punishment. A few days later, Diana came to the realization that Leona wasn't preaching to her, but genuinely wanted Diana to attend the festival as her date, becoming angry with herself for being so foolish.
One the night of the festival, Diana snuck out of the temple while the other acolytes prepared and dressed up. Climbing above the temple around the lower peaks of the mountain, Diana found a good resting place and sat there, watching the sky as the sun began to set. Once the night sky appeared, Diana, even though she knew it was against the Solari faith, relished in the light of the moon and the night stars, secretly offering a prayer to the moon.
After her silent prayer, Diana heard Leona calling for her from afar. As she approached her, Diana questioned why Leona was up there with her and not down at the festival and asked if someone sent Leona to bring her back to the temple. Leona shook her head and instead apologized for making her upset and getting them both in trouble. Diana insisted that she had to apologize instead and the two laughed slightly. While staring at each other under the night sky, the two realized that this was the first time they ever spoke in person with nobody else around to watch them.
Diana offered Leona a spot to sit next to her and the two watched the night sky together, being closer than they ever had before. Diana again asked if she was going to the festival at all as Leona stated she wasn't sure and that it depended on how she felt. As the two watched in silence, Diana laid her head against Leona's shoulder. The two sat there for hours, simply enjoying the view and each other's company. Diana, however, knowing how much the festival meant to her, offered to dance with her back at the temple. Though she expected her to say no, Leona simply stated "not yet" and grabbed her hand, leaning in for a loving kiss before travelling down the mountain to the festival. [ 1 ]
For years, Leona and Diana remained as incredibly close friends and lovers. Though the two have their differences in their level of faith to the Solari, they continued to love one another as Diana relished in finally having a true friend among her Solari peers.
Many years later, Diana continued to question her Solari faith, constantly searching for answers beyond their teachings and seeking to unearth ancient secrets that the Solari seemingly kept hidden for generations. One night, Diana discovered a hidden alcove deep inside the mountain and found images depicting golden warriors with imagery of the sun as well as silver-clad warriors with reflective imagery of the moon, providing evidence of an ancient civilization that once praised the moon the same way the Solari praised the sun.
Diana eagerly raced to share this message with her dear Leona, but she surprisingly reacted harshly and urged Diana to quit her pursuit, warning her of the punishments she'd face for the heresy she unearthed. Diana, having never seen Leona so serious and bleak before, reluctantly promised her that she'd drop the subject. Frustrated, Diana couldn't resist questioning why this discovery was considered heretical against the faith and sought to find out what the Solari were hiding.
Desperate for answers, Diana decided to sneak out of the temple under the cover of night and ascend Mount Targon itself, hoping to find the answers she seeks at its peak. The climb up the mountain was excruciating, testing her both physically, mentally and even spiritually as she faced vicious trials on her climb. Surprisingly, she found herself able to survive the harsh heights of Mount Targon by focusing on her love for Leona, hoping to find answers that would make the Solari a better, more complete faith.
Once Diana arrived at the summit, she was greeted by the brightest, fullest moon she'd ever seen. In a rapturous moment of power, a pillar of moonlight slammed into her body from the skies as she felt the great presence of an Aspect , which has chosen Diana to be its mortal host. As her body bathed in moonlight, Diana saw glimpses of the past in her mind, provided by this Aspect as it slowly took over her consciousness. Through these visions, Diana learned of the Lunari ; a long lost Rakkor faith that were devout followers of the moon rather than the sun.
Once the light dissipated, Diana regained control of her own mind and emerged as the new host for the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , her once dark hair now gleamed with a bright silver as she found herself clad in silver armor and holding a crescent blade . Diana quickly realized she was not alone in this ascension, as Leona stood at her side in a golden set of armor that reflected her own.
Though Diana was overjoyed to share this ascension with her lover, Leona instead demanded that the two of them immediately return to the Solari temple and face the judgement of the priests. Diana begged Leona not to, instead urging her to come with her so that the two can face a new future together, to which Leona refused. Their disagreement increased dramatically as the two eventually engaged in swift combat with one another, erupting into a flurry of moonlight and sunfire. Though Diana had her blade at Leona's throat for a moment, she refused to strike the killing blow and instead feared that she was losing herself to the powers of her new Aspect, choosing to flee down the mountain instead. [ 2 ]
Vindicated in her search, Diana decided to confront the Solari for their incorrect teachings, wishing to show them the errors of their ways. As she arrived at the Solari temple, Diana easily pushed back the Ra'Horak guardians and burst into the chambers of the Solari high priests. While Diana explained the discoveries she found and the visions she saw of the Lunari, she was denounced as a heretic, blasphemer and a peddler of false gods, sentencing her to punishment for her heresy. Upon this, Diana felt a rage amplified by the Aspect within and decided to embrace it in a terrible burst of moonlight , instantly obliterating the high priests and many surrounding Solari. Startled by this sudden and uncontrolled display of powers, Diana fled the temple.
Following visions and memories of the Aspect within her, Diana sought to follow these visions as a means to find the answers she had always been looking for, believing that she had a larger purpose beyond the Solari. Though she's still unsure what these visions are leading her to, she remains resolute to seek out her answers no matter the cost.
One night, her visions lead her to a dark forest filled with massive, ancient trees and foliage. Having grown up on the mountain ranges of Targon, she had never seen such verdant forests before. After thanking the Aspect of the Moon for her guidance, Diana found overgrown, withered trees up the slopes of some rocky highlands. After passing through these trees, Diana found a circle of towering stones carved with spirals and curving sigils, noticing that each stone had the same moon-shaped rune that appeared on her forehead. Moving to the center of the mysterious structures, Diana drew her crescent blade and knelt down with her head bowed down before sensing the arrival of three terrifying Voidborn .
Diana brutally and hastily fought the creatures, slashing at their ivory flesh as their bone-white carapaces quickly darkened a deep purple upon exposure to Runeterra's atmosphere. While fighting off the creatures, Diana felt a deep hatred from within her, seeing visions granted by her Aspect that showed a terrible war that was once waged against these monsters. Diana soon unleashed the full might of her Aspect and got lost in visions of a great city that once stood in this forest, summoning a striking beam of moonlight that split the clouds and empowered the stone structures that surrounded her before obliterating the Voidborn and closing the Void Rift that stood nearby.
After that, Diana returned to her normal conscious self and successfully sealed the rift. However, she knew that her work was not finished and went onward to continue her quest in following the Aspect of the Moon. [ 3 ]
Following her visions, Diana seemingly went missing and began travelling across the world, either running from something or following some unknown mission. At some point, Diana fled Targon and travelled to Ionia for unknown reasons. [ 4 ] [ 5 ] While fleeing out of Targon, Diana left behind her crescent-shaped blade on a distant snowy peak around Mount Targon. [ 6 ]
At some point, Diana returned to Mount Targon and found a large majority of Lunari followers emerging out of hiding, inspired by her arrival as the new Aspect of the Moon and seeking to fight back the oppressiveness of the Solari.
When a Lunari Shadestalker named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was captured by the Solari, her mentor Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). gathered several Lunari warriors to save her including Diana herself. Lyra, having fallen in love with a Solari boy, was able to escape herself and Diana saw the two of them fleeing the Solari soldiers at a cliff known as Dragon's Roost. Unfortunately, Lyra was killed when an arrow struck her in the chest as she tried protecting her Solari lover. At that moment, Diana witnessed the moon eclipse the sun, illuminating the edge of Dragon's Roost and allowing the two to ascend into the heavens, turning them into celestial constellations that depicted their love.
As the Solari soldiers headed back to the tribe, Diana saw Leona for the first time in years leading the Solari soldiers. Though she initially held her weapon up as a threat, she slowly lowered it when Leona noticed her from afar, silently agreeing to not fight this day as the two stared at each other longingly before going their separate ways. [ 7 ]
Over the years, the two would clash with one another in small skirmishes, as Leona continuously tried to convince Diana to let go of her connection to the moon while Diana continued her search for answers through the Aspect's visions. Eventually, the two Aspects prepared to fully face one another in combat. As Diana stood among her Lunari followers, they gave her prayers of protection for the upcoming battle and coated her weapon in Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . On the day of the battle, Diana raced down the mountain's peak with the intention of catching Leona's attention, drawing her into a position where she'd get the upper-hand. [ 8 ] [ 9 ]
Diana at some point returned to Targon to look for any trace of the Lunari; on her way she encountered the sentinels of light. Diana volunteers to guide them up Mount Targon. To fight off the threats of the Ruination, the Sentinels recruit new members, which includes Diana , turning her into Sentinel Diana ; she attains a new uniform and a relic sword by Gwen. After the Sentinels take down Viego, every recently recruited Sentinel lays down their Sentinel weapons and cloaks to return to their regular lives.
Diana is an incredibly slender woman with pale white skin and eyes the color of lavender. Though her hair was initially black as the night sky, it quickly turned into a striking silver color when she ascended as an Aspect Host . Now as an Aspect, Diana bears a glowing white sigil of the Lunari on her forehead which acts a symbol of her celestial powers. As makeup, Diana has striking dark eyeshadow along with black lines that vertically cross her eyes. She dons dark blue clothing with bright silver armor plates on her shoulders, forearms and breastplate. Her entire outfit is adorned with crescent shaped accessories and details that are customary of the Lunari . Diana's signature moonsilver blade is bright silver, crescent shaped and glows a deep ethereal blue when she activates her abilities.
Diana as a child was a quite rebellious and undisciplined girl since many times she did not obey the rules of the Solari and that led her to isolate herself from everyone, the only person who understood her was Leona whom she always treated with respect, with time the two became best friends and eventually lovers.
Diana was also quite curious and she was more curious about the moon and the Lunari tribe whom the Solari looked upon with hatred and abhorrence.
After becoming the Aspect of the Moon, Diana tried to convince Leona to leave Mount Targon together. However Leona only wanted to return to the Solari. This disagreement soon turned into a titanic battle. Diana chose to flee rather than strike down her only friend and lover. Diana is driven by the idea that the Solari and Lunari were close once bfore, and could be again. In recent times she has dedicated herself to guiding the Lunari and helping them to move forward.
Because she does not fully control her Aspect powers, Diana can cause great destruction when she explodes in anger, which causes her powers and emotions to go out of control.
Despite their disagreements, Diana and Leona were close friends and lovers growing up on Mount Targon. The two expressed romantic interest during a Festival of the Nightless Eve .
Nami is travelling to Ionia to find Diana and request she conjure a Moonstone, a super-rare stone from a piece of the moon that broke off and embedded in the mountain aeons ago, to save the Marai from being overrun by the Voidborn invading the Guardian's Sea through a dimensional rift.
Aphelios is looking for Diana to find out why she is running.
Diana met a Celestial being descending from the Astral Grove . Soraka refers to Diana as the Pale-haired Woman/Sable-haired Girl
Diana joined the Sentinels of Light to stop the threats of resurrected Pantheon who was under the control of Viego .
Scorn of the Moon
By Daniel Couts
Starring: Diana
Mentioned: Leona
Call of the Mountain (Video)
The mountain calls. Will you answer?
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Illi , Inviolus Vox , Leona
Mentioned: Taric
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Night's Work
By Graham McNeill
Night had always been Diana's favorite time, even as a child. It had been that way since she was old enough to scramble over the walls of the Solari temple and watch the moon traverse the vault of stars. She looked up through the dense forest canopy, her violet eyes scanning for the silver moon, but seeing only its diffuse glow through the thick clouds and dark branches.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
Rise with Me
By Dana Luery Shaw
Hear! Upon the Great Mountain,
Starring: Diana , Leona
The Vaulted Road
In the shadow of an approaching eclipse, a young Lunari scout escapes captivity with her Solari lover, and the two of them decide to turn their backs on Targon forever.
Starring: Diana , Leona , Lyra
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
First Steps
By Rayla Heide
She brings her curiosity and a dire message. They bring torches and a violent fear.
Starring: Nami
Mentioned: Diana
Halfway Between the Stars and Earth
By Katie Chironis
It was a perfectly good night for a cup of tea. Chilly, certainly, but clear—as crisp a night as frigid Mount Targon ever got, really. Soraka was expecting a visitor. The snow in the stone kettle had already begun to melt over the hearth at the center of her little yurt; as it grew warmer, the room was suffused with the smell of dried tea leaves and sparse mountain herbs.
Starring: Soraka
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Nasus , Pantheon
In Battle, Broken
By Laurie Goulding
Weary from the day’s labors, Iula wiped her stiff hands upon her apron, and raised a cup to the mantel.
Starring: Iula , Pantheon
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Viego
Into the Abyss
Deep in the oceans of Runeterra, the Marai are protected from terrors by the light of a moonstone. Through an ancient ritual, the Marai choose one of their people to dive into the abyss and retrieve an abyssal pearl, which is exchanged with a landwalker for the moonstone. Their chosen Tidecaller has not returned. Nami, a headstrong girl of the Marai, decides to descend into the black before the moonstone's light dims forever…
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
The Radiant Dawn
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Leona
The Tidecaller
You Are the Weapon
By David Slagle
He started his training with a single breath. In, and out.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Utterly mad, tragically homicidal, and horrifyingly purple, Dr. Mundo is what keeps many of Zaun’s citizens indoors on particularly dark nights. Now a self-proclaimed physician, he was once a patient of Zaun’s most infamous asylum. After “curing” the entire staff, Dr. Mundo established his practice in the empty wards that once treated him and began mimicking the highly unethical procedures he had so often experienced himself. With a full cabinet of medicines and zero medical knowledge, he now makes himself more monstrous with each injection and terrifies the hapless “patients” who wander near his office.
The man now known as Dr. Mundo was born and raised in Zaun . He grew up to be a large man, able to physically intimidate others. He had a friendly and good-natured personality and would often use nicknames for people. As an adult, despite his friendly conduct, he worked as henchman and enforcer for a chem-baron .
After making a mistake that infuriated his boss, the chem-baron decided to make an example out of the enforcer. He was committed to Osweld Asylum, where he was experimented on. Suffering through the cruel treatments, the enforcer's body grew muscular than he already was, yet his brain deteriorated. Eventually, he lost all memories of his previous life, including his name and that of his boss. Instead he constructed a new reality from his surroundings, mistaking his restraining jacket for the coat of a doctor, and took on the name and profession Dr. Mundo .
Over time, Mundo 'treated' everyone in the asylum, killing and dismembering them. When the chem-baron returned to collect his enforcer, Mundo treated him as well, killing him on an operating table. After the man tragically died during the surgery, Dr. Mundo stepped outside for the first time and recognized many potential patients that need to be 'cured'.
One day, Dr. Mundo fought Ekko on the Sump Level , who he thought of as a carrier of a virus. After hours, he managed to harm the boy, but the damage was magically reversed and the patient managed to escape. After the fight, Mundo returned to his hospital.
Dr. Mundo is a towering man enhanced by Chemtech medicine and implants. His already large body gained even more muscles during his torture at the asylum, which also led to his purple skin and blue tongue. He currently wears a ragged restraining jacket, even though it is much too small for his figure.
Mundo believes himself to be a doctor and everyone else to be his patients. This is a psychotic delusion/escapist reality, and he often injures, dismembers, or even kills his 'patients' without realizing it. Despite all this, Mundo seems to care for his 'patients,' becoming sad when his 'cures' don't work. He works tirelessly to cure these people of these supposed 'diseases' and is a generally caring but crazy person.
Dr. Mundo fought against Ekko in the Sump level . However, he only perceived him as 'patient' in need of 'treatment', and it is unclear Mundo even remembers him.
The Madman of Zaun
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Anthony Burch
It has been while, Mundo thought, stroking the massive purple tongue that hung from his mouth like an executed criminal swinging from gallows, since Mundo made a housecall.
Mentioned: Ekko
Short Story
Mundos Medikul Jernel
By Dr. Mundo
Portions of this text have been transcribed for legibility and edited for grammar by John O'Bryan .
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Mac Client Available
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Utterly insane, unrepentantly homicidal, and horrifyingly purple, Dr. Mundo is what keeps many of Zaun 's citizens indoors on particularly dark nights. This monosyllabic monstrosity seems to want nothing more than pain - both the giving of it, and the receiving of it. Wielding his massive meat cleaver as if it were weightless, Mundo is infamous for capturing and torturing dozens of Zaun's citizens for his nefarious 'operations', which seem to have no overall point or goal. He is brutal. He is unpredictable. He goes where he pleases. He is also not, technically, a doctor.
It is said that the man now known as Dr. Mundo was born without any sort of conscience. Instead, he had an unquenchable desire to inflict pain through experimentation. By the time he was five, most of the pets in the Zaun neighborhood where Mundo grew up had gone missing. By his teenage years, his parents were nowhere to be found. By the time he had legally acquired his license to practice medicine, he had been acquitted of thirty-eight separate charges of murder by the Zaun authorities; the lack of evidence made prosecution impossible.
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
In Noxus , warriors known as reckoners face one another in arenas where blood is spilled and strength tested—but none has ever been as celebrated as Draven . A former soldier, he found that the crowds uniquely appreciated his flair for the dramatic, not to mention the spray of blood from each of his spinning axes . Addicted to the spectacle of his own brash perfection, Draven has sworn to defeat whomever he must to ensure that his name is chanted throughout the empire forever more.
Draven grew up as an orphan on the streets of Basilich brawling with older children on the street and shady underworld thugs. He was confident in his own abilities even back then. Some may describe him as overconfident . However, it is unlikely that Draven would have survived his childhood if it wasn't for his brother, Darius.
Once Draven and Darius' hometown fell to the warhosts of Noxus, the two came to the attention of a captain named Cyrus, who Draven made an ill-considered attempt to take his life. In spite of this, Cyrus was impressed with their fighting spirits and allowed them to join the ranks of the Noxus army.
For many years, Draven and Darius fought as a part of Cyrus' warhost. Darius found taking on this life was rather easy, but Draven grew increasingly bored. His skills were beyond question, but the everyday life of being a soldier felt like too much effort for too little of a reward. Additionally, there was not enough personal glory.
Darius came to order his own warband and Draven joined him. He thought this might be easier, or another way to achieve greater recognition for himself but ultimately, he was disappointed.
Rumors have been made as to why Draven left Darius' command. One rumor says that Draven chose to leave his brother's command. Another says he was forced out of command. Whichever is correct, it is undeniable that his skills were highly sought after as both a champion and a duelist and eventually, he was convinced and decided to join a succession of warbands during the occupation of Ionia before ending up with a fairly respectable contract in the Reckoning Pits. For many years, the gladiatorial Reckoners had performed a vital role in Noxus; punishing criminals and settling disputes between the noble houses. Draven had his mind set on receiving the riches, adoration, and renown he felt deserved. However, with long, protracted wars on many fronts, the spectacle was beginning to lose its appeal for the common citizen. As the attention of the crowds shifted, Draven fell into a slump, spending more time in the seedier drinking halls and gambling dens of the capital. He ended up washed-up and broke when the former general Jericho Swain found him.
Draven is a tall, muscular man with fair skin and dark brown or black hair. He is variously portrayed with either brown, gray, or green eyes. His body and face are decorated with reddish tattoos, a series of thick, angular lines. His iconic facial hair is a long, thin mustache that extends past his jawline.
He typically wears light leather armor, accented with metal spikes and white fur. His weapons of choice are a pair of large, spinning axes meant for throwing.
With a knack for spectacle and showmanship, Draven is a bombastic, blustering personality and a famous crowd-pleaser during his gladiatorial "performances." He is brash and impulsive, often acting purely on instinct. In addition, he is almost cartoonishly arrogant, loving himself and the sound of his own name with extreme passion. As such, he often refers to himself in the third person. He is also an enthusiastic killer, executing his opponents in the ring with brutal thrill.
Draven and Darius are renowned as the 'Blood Brothers' (Draven being the younger one). Draven looked up to his older brother for guidance. They are competitive brothers, with both generally disapproving of the way the other goes about his life.
Draven supported Swain when he was considered a disgraced figure, and aided him in his coup for the leadership of Noxus. For this, Swain considers him a friend and ally.
It is revealed in The Whispering Doodad that both Draven and Warmason Tamara Lautari harbor feelings towards each other that they refuse to express to one-another, much to the confusion of the observer.
Draven had encountered both Lulu and Tristana , fought and fled from them during his return trip from Basilich to Noxus Prime.
Draven sees Riven as a mighty warrior worthy of his time in The Fleshing Arena.
Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). offered Draven an opportunity to renew the Reckoners' arena business, which he gladly accepted.
During Viego conquests, Draven challenged him and immediately lost, resulting in his ruination . [ 1 ]
The Glorious Executioner
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Draven
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Swain
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Blood of Noxus
By Graham McNeill
In all Runeterra, there is no army more feared than that of the Noxian empire. In all Noxus, there is no soldier more respected than Darius. Of all the commandments that have kept Noxus strong, one rule stands above all others: Loyalty is everything.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Invetia Varn , Quilletta Varn , Tamara
Mentioned: Singed
Noxian Brotherhood
By Jared Rosen
Draven - Another victory for the Glorious Executioner.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Swain
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
The Whispering Doodad
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
The Hand of Noxus
Starring: Darius
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Draven , Swain
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A prodigy from the rough streets of Zaun , Ekko manipulates time to twist any situation to his advantage. Using his own invention, the Z-Drive , he explores the branching possibilities of reality to craft the perfect moment. Though he revels in this freedom, when there’s a threat to his friends, he’ll do anything to defend them. To outsiders, Ekko seems to achieve the impossible the first time, every time.
Born to Inna and Wyeth who envisioned a brighter future for their son in Piltover , Ekko grew up watching his parents age beyond their years, toiling for too many hours under dangerous conditions in suffocating factories. They believed, it would all be worth it, if it meant their son could one day rise to the city above.
While his parents saw only pollution and crime of Zaun , Ekko recognized the vibrant energy and potential for innovation that thrived amidst the city's chaos. This appreciation for Zaun's resilience and resourcefulness fueled Ekko's youth, leading him to form bonds with the scrappy orphans of Zaun, known as the Lost Children of Zaun .
Surrounded by the ingenuity of Zaunites and inspired by their ability to thrive in adverse conditions, Ekko's childhood was marked by wild invention and exploration. From constructing simple machines before he could crawl to embarking on escapades through the labyrinthine streets, Ekko embraced the spirit of his city and its people.
During a solo trek into the rubble of a recently demolished laboratory, Ekko stumbles upon a shard of hextech crystal that would change the course of his life forever. He scrambled to find more pieces, but the encroaching enforcers told him he wasn’t the only one looking. Ekko barely escaped, and returned to his home.
Ekko's discovery of the hextech shard set him on a path of experimentation. With relentless determination, he worked to harness the shard's temporal powers, culminating in the creation of the Zero Drive—a device capable of manipulating time in small increments. Despite initial setbacks and the creation of multiple versions of himself due to a temporal distortion, Ekko persevered, refining the Zero Drive and pushing its limits.
On his name day, Ekko put the Zero Drive to the test, using it to save a friend from a perilous fall. It showed Ekko the potential of his invention and solidified his role as a protector of his friends and city.
As Ekko continued to refine his time-bending abilities, he earned a reputation among the youth of Zaun as a hero capable of defying danger. With each trial and error, the Zero Drive grew more stable, allowing Ekko to protect his friends with increasing precision. Despite the physical toll of repeated use, Ekko embraced his role as the defender of Zaun's youth, inspiring others to challenge the status quo and dream of a better future.
Ekko's mastery over time has garnered him attention from the most inventive and formidable figures in both Zaun and Piltover, making him a potential obstacle to their endeavors. Soon Ekko started to be targeted by the worst of them.
Future Ekko time warps through the Multiverse.
In a possible future, Ekko becomes more enraptured in his technology, neglecting his loved ones. He would use his Zero Drive to rewind situations with his friends and family to get the optimal outcome. He eventually drifts away from all his friends and seldom returns home to see his parents. The Poingdestre Chembaron family would greatly increase their Syntixi manufacturing, much to the ire of Clan Ferros, causing Piltover to increase their chemical dumpings into Zaun. The increased pollution would strengthen the noxious Zaun Grey, causing a city-wide quarantine to be put in place. In retaliation, the Poingdestres would launch attacks against Piltover. Ekko would do his best to save lives on both sides, but to little success. With the cities on the brink of civil war and the pollution forcing his parents to leave Zaun, Ekko resolved to improve his technology to allow to travel further back in time to stop the war.
After numerous failed attempts, Ekko is able to turn his Zero Drive into the Chronoport, but at the expense of his last Zero Drive. With his last chance, he travels back to stop Clan Ferros from hiring the Poingdestres to manufacture artificial Hextech, but arrives too late. Despite Syntixi being discovered, Future Ekko decides to round it all up before the Poingdestres amass to much power and recruits his younger self to aid him. After the two Ekkos gather all the Syntixi, Future Ekko plans to create a Syntixi bomb and detonate it at the half way point between Piltover and Zaun, not only to destroy the Syntixi but also Clan Ferros' Hextech vault, rendering both cities powerless and averting civil war. His past self is horrified that his future self would sacrifice so many innocent lives to stop the war, but Future Ekko disregards him.
His past self would team up with Camille to stop him from detonating the bomb. After beating him, present Ekko manages to talk him down, but the bomb is already armed. However, Future Ekko decides to take the bomb and hurl it through a rift in time and destroy the Syntixi at the cost of his own life. As he hurdles through time and space, Ekko sees the multiverse. In one timeline, he sees his parents have decided to stay in Zaun and steps through, hoping his past self forgives him.
Ekko is a short, thin, brown-skinned young man with hazelnut brown eyes. He has white hair fashioned into a mohawk. While originally designed with straight hair, Ekko is sometimes portrayed with textured hair. Typically, his forehead and nose are painted white with the shape of an hourglass.
He usually wears a baggy builder's overalls, with a red scarf with protective glasses on his neck, semi-sewn baggy green pants and black boots.
He had a ingenious mind, even when he was a baby, he could invent simple machines. He is also very determined to save his allies, as he was willing to go back in time to save a friend of his life.
Ekko's parents work overtime in one of Zaun's many factories, so they're rarely home. [ 2 ]
The graffiti Ekko often visits has paintings of girls with blue ( Jinx ) and pink ( Vi ) hair. Ekko and Jinx were childhood friends and often played together. He had a crush on her before she started talking to Fishbones and Pow-Pow .
Ekko and friends belong to a gang called the Lost Children of Zaun, a group of orphans and teenagers drawn together by their mutual interests and desire for community. Members of the Lost Children include:
Ekko dislikes Pilties like Jayce , Ezreal , and Caitlyn , as he sees them as arrogant and self-important, as well as to promote Zaunite nationalism. He is convinced Piltover is not the only progressive city in Valoran and is proud to be Zaunite. Seeing his former friends leave for the City of Progress gave him a bit of a chip on his shoulder. Not to mention his 12-year-old friend Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was killed by a Piltie. [ 3 ]
However little by little Ekko began to stop judging the Piltovians, beginning to establish certain relationships or even to become familiar with them, like Camille and Seraphine.
He finds Ezreal a poser. [ 4 ]
To him, Jayce and Viktor are the opposite extremes of the same decadent spectrum, and hopes he doesn't turn out like either of them. [ 5 ]
Ekko also dislikes Zaunites like Viktor , Singed , and Dr. Mundo , as they embody everything that is wrong with the city. Ekko once saved his friend from Dr. Mundo by rewinding time; however, Mundo remains aware of the changed timeline.
Ekko appreciates Zac for what he has done for Zaun. Ekko remarks that he would poke at Zac to learn about the composition of his chemical body. [ 6 ]
He likes Blitzcrank for unknown reasons and fights alongside him in The Climb. [ 7 ]
The only Yordle Ekko has met is Heimerdinger . The two of them shared stories with each other while Heimerdinger visited Ekko's hideout in Zaun. He hasn't met any other Yordles (at least not without glamour) and has only heard tales of them. [ 8 ] He respects Heimerdinger as an inventor despite him residing in and working for Piltover. [ 9 ]
Ekko and his friends have been shown to attend Seraphine's performance. They are likely her fans despite her strong ties to Piltover And he respects Seraphine's desire to unite the two cities through music.
Ekko met Zeri after she freed a group of hostages, including Ekko's parents, from a warehouse owned by Renata Glasc . It's implied in CONV/RGENCE that they and their families keep in touch with each other.
The Boy Who Shattered Time
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Ekko
Mentioned: Inna , Wyeth
A Perfect Life: Closed Circuit
By John O'Bryan
Ekko is a teen inventor who lives in Zaun, a city where being handy with technology is the best path to a better future. His greatest invention is the Z-Drive: a device which allows him to rewind his own timeline—and redo the last few seconds of his past. Ekko uses the Z-Drive to fix everything in his life: small mistakes, life-changing ones, and everything in between. But messing with time can have some major consequences for Ekko, his friends, his family, and his world... In this prequel to Conv/rgence, Ekko imagines a timeline without do-overs, where he must give up the extra chances time travel has offered him. But it's harder than he thinks to let time flow on without getting involved...
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Jayce , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
A Perfect Life: Jump Start
Starring: Chancee , Ekko , Inna , Lem , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Aximander , Chadd , Elie , Jayce , Rungs
A Perfect Life: Side Effects
Starring: Ekko , Jayce , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna
A Perfect Life: The Depths
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna , Jayce , Jinx
A Perfect Life: Wrong Turn
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Vale Poingdestre , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Elie , Rungs , Van Klegg
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Chronobreak
A friend in need or a murderous deed. We're defined by the paths we take.
Starring: Ajuna Lem , Ekko
Music Video
By Justin Tranter , Imagine Dragons , JID , Fortiche Productions
Oh, the misery, everybody wants to be my ENEMY.
Starring: Aero , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Jericho , Jinx , Mylo , Vi
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
It had been a weeklong sort of day.
Starring: Ekko , Inna , Wyeth
Mentioned: Ajuna Lem
Rise of the Underworlds (Video)
Theirs are the names frantically whispered by scoundrels and swindlers. They come from below—the sea, the sands, the city—and wherever they surface, the legends follow.
Starring: Auvray , Ekko , Milat
Mentioned: Pyke , Rek'Sai
Some things are worth fighting for. Time and time again.
Mentioned: Ajuna Lem , Jinx
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Short Story
The Unexpected Spark
By Michael Luo
"I can’t accept this,"
Starring: Ekko , Zeri
Mentioned: Inna , Renata Glasc , Wyeth
True Genius
When Heimerdinger's latest hextech creation is stolen by Jinx, the professor sends an unfortunate apprentice on a wild goose chase through the City of Progress… and beneath it.
Starring: Ekko , Heimerdinger , Jinx
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Anthony Burch
It has been while, Mundo thought, stroking the massive purple tongue that hung from his mouth like an executed criminal swinging from gallows, since Mundo made a housecall.
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Ekko
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Virtual hip-hop group True Damage was born when K/DA's lead rapper Akali sought to bring together the distinct talents of Ekko, Senna, Qiyana, and Yasuo in an ambitious, genre-defying collaboration.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
By True Damage
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Fiora , Vladimir
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Mentioned: Caitlyn
Systems Online
In the wake of a ruthless Praetorian threat, an elite team converges to stop them. Prepare to engage—you're just in time.
Starring: Ekko , Fiora , Graves , Lucian , Pantheon
Harmonies: Issue 1
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
XII on Ekko's 'bat'
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Elise is a deadly predator who dwells in a shuttered, lightless palace, deep within the oldest city of Noxus . She was once the mistress of a powerful noble house, until the bite of a vile spider-god transformed her into something utterly inhuman, yet still beautiful—an arachnoid creature, drawing unsuspecting prey into her web. Elise now feeds upon the naive and the faithless, and there are few who can resist her seductions.
Elise was born centuries in Noxus into the Kythera house, one of the oldest and most powerful families in the empire. She was well known for her extraordinary beauty, as many nobles tried to ask for her hand in marriage. However, despite her beauty, Elise was a proud and ambitious woman, as she only wanted to expand her influence and wealth further. This being the reason why she wanted to marry Bertholdt Zaavan whose house was more powerful than hers, this marriage was not convenient for them because it would be the Kythera family that would have more privileges at their expense, but Elise managed to seduce Bertholdt and in the end he agreed to marry her.
Unbeknownst to her, the political marriage had been in the works for years. Dark forces operating from the shadows pulled the strings of the empire, and Berholdt was merely a pawn in a much more elaborate game. Yet no one expected Elise to end up completely subduing him. Although her husband was the public face of his house, it was clear who really held the power. As time went on, his resentment grew.
One evening, during dinner, amid his usual cold atmosphere, he revealed to his wife that he had poisoned the wine and demanded that she step away from the social sphere to allow him to take back the reins of power. Knowing that he would carry the antidote with him, Elise began to play the role of the repentant wife: she cried and begged her husband to forgive her. When she seemed to have convinced him, she quickly grabbed a knife from the table and pierced his heart with it.
Even though the antidote worked, Elise was bedridden for weeks. Then... the pale woman appeared.
Elise is described as a woman of striking beauty. Her human appearance is charming and seductive, designed to attract her victims. She has sharp, defined facial features, dark eyes, and short, dark, slicked-back hair with a distinctive scarlet red sweep along the middle. She usually wears a black cape with scarlet red details, cinched with a cross-like brooch that resembles fangs. Beneath this facade however, she is a monstrous spider-hybrid.
In her spider form, Elise turns to crawl and develops multiple limbs that emerge from her back, maintaining her size but discarding all human proportions. Her skin transforms into a dark, furry, bloated mass with vivid patterns as predator coloration. Although she can fully transform into a spider, she also has an intermediate state in which she maintains a human face, torso and posture, but she assumes quasi-arachnoid characteristics, such as her extremities terminating in pointed edges and additional segmented limbs.
Elise is manipulative, cunning and cruel; from a young age, she discovered how to use her beauty to influence others. After her transformation, her abilities to seduce and deceive improved drastically. She often uses charm and the promise of power or ecstasy to lure her victims into her deadly web, enjoying the control she exercises over them. Although she is completely devoted to Vilemaw , Elise is pragmatic, and she uses her alliance with the Black Rose to ensure a constant supply of victims. Despite her monstrous coldness, her human desires—a need for power and eternal youth—motivate her actions.
Elise is a member of the Black Rose that resides in Noxus for the most part.
LeBlanc tasks her with bearing magical artifacts for her from Shadow Isles and gives her acolytes to offer to Vilemaw .
She worships Vilemaw and its poison provides her with eternal youth in exchange for the acolytes as preys.
She has multiple spiderlings living with her in the ruin of House Zaavan's halls.
The Spider Queen
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Elise
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Vilemaw
Short Story
Courting Disaster
By Rowan Noel Williams
From a collection of letters, from Lord Emet of House Sassen to the Lady Elise
By Unknown Author
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Strand By Silken Strand
The weeks spent on the ocean had made Markus feel dizzy and weak, so he was glad to be back on dry land. The path leading from the basalt shore had a slick, oily quality, making it treacherous underfoot. The crooked trees to either side were wretched, blackened husks that wept yellowed sap from where it looked like some panicked animal had clawed them ragged. Soft light shimmered between the trees, dancing like the corpse candles that flickered over marshland and drew unwary souls to their doom. The branches were hung with what looked like canopies of ragged muslin, and it took Markus a moment to realize they were swathes of cobwebs.
Starring: Elise , Vilemaw
The Shuttered Manse
She felt the thief coming closer with every careful step he took.
Starring: Elise , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Kindred , Rammus , Swain
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Starring: LeBlanc , Sion , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Elise , Jarvan IV , Vladimir
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Within the dark seams of Runeterra , the demon Evelynn searches for her next victim. She lures in prey with the voluptuous façade of a human female, but once a person succumbs to her charms , Evelynn's true form is unleashed. She then subjects her victim to unspeakable torment, gratifying herself with their pain. To the demon, these liaisons are innocent flings. To the rest of Runeterra, they are ghoulish tales of lust gone awry and horrific reminders of the cost of wanton desire.
What would become Evelynn started as a primordial, shapeless, and barely sentient spiritual entity, barely a shadow. This entity was left this way for a long time, numb to everything and barely existing for centuries.
When the Rune Wars happened, thousands of people suffered and died. This stimulated the entity, and it was affected by the manic vibrations of all the suffering of the people of Runeterra . This pleasured and nourished the entity, transforming it into a different creature, a demon that fed on the pain of others.
When the Rune wars ended, the creature was left hungry and desperate for the pleasure that others' suffering provided it. It subsequently decided that it would have to cause the pain that it needed itself.
To catch its prey, people, it would have to form itself into something tangible, but it could never make a form that didn't scare its prey away. It decided to study humans and see what they liked. By watching from the shadows, the demon was able to craft itself a form that attracted prey and learned to talk in a way that was alluring to them. As it amassed victims, it got better and better at attracting prey, until a point where it could lure prey in with ease.
Despite killing dozens, the demon isn't able to completely satiate its hunger and can only hold itself over until its next meal. Because she has never felt a pleasure so great since the Rune Wars, Evelynn dreams of a day when she can plunge the world into anarchy and feel that ecstasy again.
Evelynn made a cult designed to attract worshipers who would do her bidding. While traveling through Valoran with her teacher Frey, Vayne heard of this and traveled to the meeting place of the cult. Despite being injured by a member of the cult and killing her own teacher on the way, Vayne continued her journey to the meeting place with the intent of finally killing Evelynn.
While Evelynn can change her form at will, she often takes the form of a beautiful curvaceous human woman with pink hands and claws, two "lashers" resembling twin tails, light blue skin and pink and white hair. This form includes constantly shifting "clothes" that show off most of her body.
In her shadow form, Evelynn's body becomes pitch black, her lashers obtain magenta tips and she sprouts magenta horns.
Evelynn is a predatory demon who finds pleasure in other people's pain. She inflicts pain on others to satisfy her never-ending hunger and to experience pleasure. Although she lures her prey with promises of sexual pleasure, she does not actually engage in the creation of carnal pleasures, probably because she finds no entertainment in it of her own. To close this gap, Evelynn prefers to prey on happy people, because they are the only ones with something to lose. Behind her pretty exterior hides a very sadistic, sarcastic, and hilarious nature; after all, for her, killing seduced victims is exactly the same as a love game for people who really love each other.
Under this persona, Evelynn is charming and flirty towards her victims, manipulating others towards her doom. She prefers those that live happy lives, and then brings them to the peak of ecstasy so that their agony is more intense, relishing in her cruelty.
Evelynn killed Vayne's mother and father, who were the patron and matron of House Vayne of Demacia , in their home. Vayne came home while Evelynn killed them, and got a glimpse of her face. Vayne was scarred from this incident and dedicated her life to finding and destroying monsters, with her ultimate goal being to find Evelynn and take revenge for her mother and father.
Like Tahm Kench, Evelynn is classified as a demon, and they seem to know each other. She considers him a rival, as both prey on humans and do not consider sharing her food, though their choices of victims are very different.
Agony's Embrace
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Evelynn
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Tallest Daisy
Evelynn slinked through the teeming streets, the shadows of her body blending seamlessly with the night. Her eyes glinted within the gloom, though only the keenest observer would have noticed. Drunks, sailors, and harlots chatted in a nearby thoroughfare, blissfully unaware they were being watched by a demon in the dark. The demon, on the other hand, saw them all with perfect clarity, and judged them with the most discerning eye.
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
The Night Hunter
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Vayne
Mentioned: Evelynn , Lissandra
Music Video
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 3
A true fan follows the elusive Evelynn's career, leading to a chance encounter that changes everything.
Mentioned: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Mentioned: Kassadin
Harmonies: Issue 5
Ahri reflects on the long road that led to her forming K/DA: breaking old bonds while establishing new ties, navigating the flood of attention (and expectation) following their initial success, and looking forward to their bright future.
Short Story
Interview: Inside K/DA
By PopRox , Indu Reddy
PopRox chats with K/DA on their style, personal life, and success after POP/STARS.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Mentioned: Lulu
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
By Riot Paradox
Starring: Evelynn , Trundle , Twitch , Volibear
Mentioned: Irelia
The Shadows Beckon
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Swift and lethal, Evelynn is one of the most deadly - and expensive - assassins in all of Runeterra. Able to merge with shadows at will, she patiently stalks her prey, waiting for the right moment to strike. While Evelynn is clearly not entirely human, and her heritage remains unclear, it is believed that she hails from the Shadow Isles - though her link with that tortured realm remains shrouded in mystery.
Mentioned: Camille , Singed
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Academy Adventures: Series 3
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A dashing adventurer, unknowingly gifted in the magical arts, Ezreal raids long-lost catacombs, tangles with ancient curses, and overcomes seemingly impossible odds with ease. His courage and bravado knowing no bounds, he prefers to improvise his way out of any situation, relying partially on his wits, but mostly on his mystical Shuriman gauntlet, which he uses to unleash devastating arcane blasts . One thing is for sure—whenever Ezreal is around, trouble isn’t too far behind. Or ahead. Probably everywhere.
Ezreal was born and raised in a wealthy neighborhood of Piltover as the son of two renowned archeologists. As explorers, Ezreal's parents were often away for extended periods of time on expeditions while Ezreal was taken care of by his uncle, Professor Lymere. Becoming used to his parents' absence, Ezreal loved hearing the stories his parents would tell him of their adventures, often fantasizing about joining them on their travels. Ezreal's father would typically tell him the stories of their travels, eventually sharing his plans for an incredibly secretive and ambitious expedition. Ezreal's father sought out the Tomb of Ne'Zuk , a Shuriman tyrant rumored to have the ability to jump from one place to another. He would often joke to the young Ezreal that, if he learned Ne'Zuk's teleportation magic, he would use it to continue his travels and jump back into Piltover in time for dinner.
Professor Lymere had trouble raising Ezreal, who was an unruly and rash child, often being tutored on various subjects just to keep him busy and out of trouble. These subjects included advanced cartography, Hextech mechanics and ancient histories of Runeterra , which Ezreal found extremely easy to grasp thanks to his prodigal skill in learning. Seeing studying as a waste of time, he often passed all assessments easily with little or no preparation, infuriating his uncle as he had more free time to roam the university grounds. Being a troublemaker, Ezreal often spent time evading campus wardens, navigating tunnels underneath lecture halls and even practicing lockpicking to sneak into his teachers' offices and rearrange their belongings.
As Ezreal grew older, the absences of his parents became longer to the point where they simply didn't return home one day. At that point, Ezreal's uncle tearfully admitted that the two had most likely died somewhere in the Shuriman desert, which Ezreal simply couldn't accept. Having heard of all the preparations and studies his parents would make for these expeditions, Ezreal was still convinced that his parents were still out there somewhere. Ezreal decided he'd find his parents on his own as he planned to search the location of their most important expedition; the Tomb of Ne'Zuk. In preparation, Ezreal abandoned his studies and gathered supplies from the university such as celestial diagrams, runic sigil translations, guides on the burial rites of Shurima and even a pair of protective goggles. Leaving a farewell note for his uncle, Ezreal snuck onto a supply ship heading towards the Shuriman city of Nashramae . The ship's captain discovered Ezreal as a stowaway and threatened to throw Ezreal overboard before he convinced them otherwise by agreeing to act as their navigator, as the previous navigator was unfortunately lost at sea.
In Shurima , Ezreal followed his mother's meticulous field notes and crossed the The Great Sai with merchant caravans. For months, Ezreal explored the most ancient Shuriman locations as he delved into cavernous ruins beneath the sands and faced unspeakable horrors that guarded hidden chambers, imagining himself as following his parents' path as an adventurer.
The left gauntlet of Ne'Zuk, which Ezreal found within the lost tomb .
Finally, Ezreal found the tomb of Ne'Zuk underneath a mausoleum for some unnamed emperor, achieving what his parents unfortunately couldn't. The sarcophagus in the tomb however was empty, save for a gleaming bronze gauntlet with a crystalline matrix at its center. As soon as Ezreal touched it, the tomb began to turn on him, activating various thousand year old traps and wards. Improvising and thinking on instinct, Ezreal used the gauntlet and shot out a powerful blast of arcane energy to create a hole for him to exit through. He then teleported instantly to the hidden entrance right before the entire tomb collapsed into sand.
Having barely escaped, Ezreal looked down at the mysterious gauntlet as it hummed in-sync with his heartbeat, feeling it siphoning and amplifying his own magical essence. After some investigation, Ezreal discovered that the gauntlet was a fearsome weapon belonging to an Ascended God-Warrior , which he saw as perfect for an explorer like himself.
Having found the mystical gauntlet in Ne'Zuk's now collapsed tomb, Ezreal soon returned to Piltover and continued to go on various adventures and expeditions. Ezreal traveled to lost cities, mystical temples and other ancient locations that university professors would only read about on maps, slowly growing his reputation as a treasure-seeking explorer as many would begin telling stories of his exploits, which Ezreal usually saw as incapable of conveying the true scope and scale of his feats. Ezreal chased fame and glory throughout all parts of the world to create a name for himself, but he still hoped that his parents would one day catch word of his grand explorations and eventually seek him out in person.
In order to become an officially renowned explorer, Ezreal desperately sought to join the esteemed Piltover Explorers Guild, a widespread organization consisting of Runeterra's best explorers and adventurers. However, Ezreal would be denied entry into the Explorers Guild for currently unknown reasons, angering Ezreal since he believed he was more than qualified to join because of all the dangerous adventures he'd already gone on, and even seeking full accreditation on the guild in exchange for artifact retrieval jobs, like the time he was hired by Januk, a freljordian explorer member of the guild in such way.
Following Professor Lymere's theories about Zaun 's ancient history as a Shuriman port city once called Oshra Va'Zaun, Ezreal realized that his uncle had no proof for his theories and decided to search the deepest parts of Zaun to find proof and take credit. [ 1 ] Eventually, Ezreal would discover stories about the Vault of Resplendent Holies , an ancient and renowned Shuriman vault believed to be full of artifacts and lost temples. [ 2 ] Ezreal eventually learned from a few sources that industrial excavations in Zaun had opened up a crack in the deepest and flooded depths of the Sump layer of Zaun, which he delved into in search of the vault.
Ezreal discovering the doors to the Vault of Resplendent Holies beneath Zaun's Sump
As Ezreal began to lose morale over finding nothing within the depths, he managed to find an ancient door most likely to the Vault of Resplendent Holies. The door was lined with various Shuriman glyphs, including a few that resembled owls, which Ezreal deciphered as a warning about a curse that 'multiplies' into a thousand curses, though his Shuriman was candid and rusty. Unable to unlock the door, Ezreal shot a blast of arcane magic through it, creating a hole for him to enter.
Ezreal hiding from fiery Golems within the vault.
Once inside the vault, Ezreal found various relics such as one that belonged to Carikkan, the Shuriman emperor's personal spirit-banisher who bound troublesome entities to inanimate objects for his own dark purposes. While rummaging through Carikkan's many relics, Ezreal encountered an army of fiery stone-warrior Golems that defended Carikkan's artifats, which he easily obliterated with shots of arcane energy. Another artifact that Ezreal found was a perfectly preserved golden stele inscribed with the legend of the "Day of Fire" and Carikkan's oath to protect Oshra Va'Zaun.
After defeating more fiery Golems, a rush of water started to flood in through the cracks of the floor, forcing Ezreal to swim through tunnels to reach the surface again while carrying the golden stele. Managing to escape, Ezreal traveled back to Piltover and visited Zaile's , an outfitter store where Ezreal intended to get his jacket, now torn to shreds, tailored and repaired. Ezreal intended to look as good as possible so that he can impress the Explorers Guild by presenting his journal recording his explorations within the Vault of Resplendent Holies.
Ezreal preparing to fire a blast of energy at the swarm of locusts he acidentally unleashed.
While getting his jacket tailored at Zaile's, Ezreal left the golden stele by a window, causing it to come in contact with direct sunlight during an equinox. The stele began to glow and speak in an ancient language before exploding into a swarm of infernal locust creatures. As more locusts began to pour out of the sewer grates, Ezreal helped clear them out by using blasts from his gauntlet. A few days later, Ezreal faced legal repercussions for bringing the dangerous artifact into Piltover and causing property damage to the mercantile district. Though he sought legal advice and read up on Piltover's libel and slander laws, he ultimately decided to represent himself in court. In order to prove his innocence however, Ezreal quickly logged a possibly false log on his journal to act as evidence, which directly stated that he had nothing to do with the outbreak and blamed the clerk at Zaile's for placing the stele in the sunlight. [ 1 ]
Ezreal continued his adventurous expeditions across the world, writing them in his field notes to record his endeavors and impress the Explorers Guild so they can grant him membership:
Ezreal first traveled southwest of Piltover to the city of Bel'zhun , located in northern Shurima and under Noxian rule. Ezreal knew that the best guides in Shurima were found in the coastal city and found Kasdjar, a knowledgeable and charismatic guide who shared many details about the ancient histories of Shurima as they travelled.
The two traveled through the desert together, at some point going to the ancient city of Nerimazeth . While scouring the ruins for priceless artifacts, Kasdjar shared many historical facts about the lands outside of the city, noting that they were once home to the first prototype Sun Disc before it failed and collapsed. Towards the south of Sai Kahleek , Ezreal encountered many Xer'Sai creatures, defending him and his guide by using the magic of his gauntlet. The two took shelter in a circular cavern, which Kasdjar quickly realized was a gargantuan Xer'Sai burrow and the lair of the Sand Mother as the two quickly left as soon as they could. At some point, Kasdjar was tragically killed when a massive obelisk fell on him. Despite this, Ezreal continued his adventure down south reached the edge of Icathia , which he immediately saw as way too dangerous and turned around instantly.
At some point, Ezreal sailed out of the Shuriman jungles and shipwrecked on a deserted island home to mysterious, albeit aggressively flirtatious walrus-esque beings. After about a week, Ezreal repaired his ship and sailed back to the main land.
In the Noxian capital city, Ezreal once planned to meet a new, mysterious contact to collect archival materials. While waiting for her, Ezreal strolled the promenades surrounding the Immortal Bastion , sampling Noxian cuisine, notably their tacos, and inspecting he monoliths of dark magic that made up the fortress. Ezreal's contact never showed, but he noticed many spies following him until one of them handed him a rose petal colored black . Now sensing danger, Ezreal decided to leave the city and found black petals every day until he left the border, even finding one in his satchel.
In the Demacian city of Jandelle , Ezreal searched for a pair of masks supposedly belonging to the Kindred themselves, having been carved out of a bewitched eldlock tree. While searching though, Ezreal began to reminisce on an old tale about a famous Demacian actress who died on stage while playing the dual role of Kindred. Though the masks she wore for that role mysteriously disappeared, Ezreal theorized that these were the original masks of the Kindred and believed they were most likely locked away in a collector's show room.
While staying in Demacia, Ezreal took on the false identity of Jarro Lightfeather , a Sentinel of Light born in Vaskasia . As Jarro Lightfeather, Ezreal met various Demacians and became a renowned – or at least infamous – national hero.
At the eastern parts of Rakelstake in the Freljord , Ezreal encountered the Avarosans and procured a silver totem at the top of a freezing mountain. After that, Ezreal faced trouble with the tribe and fled as quickly as possible, denying any claims that he was ever in the Freljord to the Avarosans.
While sailing around the oceans east of Mount Targon , Ezreal took in the beauty of the Targonian night sky. At the same time however, Ezreal helped quell a mutiny that occurred on the ship he had stowed away on.
In Bilgewater , Ezreal studied the local Buhru culture on the Blue Flame Isles , which he knew as the Serpent Isles , and came to learn that their religion predates everything found on both Valoran and Shurima. Having joined in on the festive ceremonies of the Buhru, Ezreal caught sight of Illaoi , curiously examining the massive idol she carried on her.
At the southern parts of the Renek River , Ezreal faced off against the eight tribes of the Southern Dune Wanderers, who chased him through the mountains for stealing their sacred medallion. While running though, Ezreal found a rock with a shimmering gap in it, opening up a portal to Bandle City before vanishing. Though Ezreal camped out for a week to see it again, it never reappeared and Ezreal convinced himself it may have been a hallucination.
In Mudtown , Ezreal got captured by a gang of marauders who took his gauntlet and possibly other belongings. However, after playing a game of Krakenhand with the gang, Ezreal quickly befriended the gang members and proved his worth to them. Despite not knowing how to play whatsoever, Ezreal managed to win his gauntlet back along with an antique flintlock. [ 2 ]
Ezreal, wanting to once again apply for membership in the Explorers Guild, reunited with Januk, a Freljordian explorer known for illegally raiding museums, and with whom the explorer had already worked before, albeit in uneasy terms as they constantly betrayed one another on their adventures. One instance of such betrayals was when Januk, as payback for the time Ezreal ran off with an important map, purposefully blew Ezreal's cover after they salvaged the wreck of a ship called the Echelon Dawn, which in turn prompted Ezreal to leave him behind on a noxian prision camp. Despite this, Ezreal agreed to do a job for him; find the mythical Elixir of Uloa, a potion sought out by many cults and believed to imbue people with immortality upon consumption. In return, Januk agreed to pay Ezreal sixty thousand, along with full accreditation in the guild. [ 3 ]
Searching for the elixir in the Shuriman jungles, Ezreal arrived in the village of Paretha . While staying at the village, Ezreal traveled to the Vale of Silver Mist , a magical part of the jungles outside of Paretha. After drinking some taffa-flower water he found in the jungle, Ezreal found what appeared to be an exact copy of himself curiously peering at him from behind a tree, which he choked up to hallucinations from drinking the flower water. [ 2 ]
Ezreal discovering a mysterious temple in Paretha , which housed the Elixir of Uloa.
After a few hours in the jungles, Ezreal found an underground crypt and entered it, easily traversing the many labyrinthine tunnels and traps until he reached a room with the Elixir of Uloa sitting on top of a pedestal. Anticipating more traps, Ezreal carefully approached the pedestal and lightly grasped the elixir, triggering a final sequence of self-destructive traps. Hundreds of sharp stakes dropped from the ceiling around the pedestal, which he narrowly escaped by teleporting away. Ezreal quickly fled the chamber as the floors began to crack and split. Giant red-eyed insects emerged through the collapsed walls, attacking Ezreal as he defended himself with blasts from his gauntlet. As Ezreal slid towards the exit, the chamber suddenly fell apart right in front of him, closing off his only exit out of the crypt. Ezreal blasted a hole through the rubble with his magical gauntlet, clearing the entrance as the tomb caved in completely. [ 4 ]
With the elixir in his possession, Ezreal stayed in Paretha to gather supplies. A tribal shaman of the village claimed that Ezreal's soul was entwined with the Aspect of the Wanderer, which confused Ezreal as he didn't think the shaman looked Targonian. Not wishing to face the citizens of Paretha when they realize he caused the collapse of their ancient temple, Ezreal quickly left to deliver the elixir. [ 2 ]
Meeting with Jaunk, Ezreal described the feats he pulled in retrieving the elixir, and refused to give it without the proper payment. Though Januk offered him his payment in money, Ezreal added that he wanted full accreditation within the Explorers Guild as well. Januk was reluctant, as neither he nor the Guild were very fond of Ezreal, but agreed when Ezreal threatened to find a different buyer for immortality. Januk left to retrieve a letter from his office that would grant Ezreal full accreditation in the guild, which Ezreal realized was a potential betrayal. While examining a peculiar bell in Januk's collection, Ezreal heard him state that the bell had Ochnun written on it; the language of the dead. Turning around, Ezreal found Januk pointing two flintlock pistols at his head.
Ezreal and an angry Januk pointing his flintlock pistols.
Januk told Ezreal that his application to the guild had been denied and revealed that he was part of a cult that sought to use the elixir to raise a fallen dreadlord from the dead. Ezreal dodged the bullets with his teleportation, but Januk grabbed him by the gauntlet and tossed him to the floor before kicking his ribs and snatching the elixir out of his grip. After Januk triumphantly downed the bottle, Ezreal revealed that he had anticipated Januk's betrayal, and that the "elixir" he just drank was actually a bottle of sand wasp venom; a very potent laxative. As Januk groaned and collapsed on the floor, Ezreal grabbed the Ochnun bell and leapt out of Januk's office window, hoping to bring the bell back to the Explorers Guild as a way to earn membership. [ 3 ]
Kai'Sa and Ezreal fighting off a swarm of Voidlings together.
On a recent expedition to Shurima , Ezreal managed to locate an ancient temple holding the legendary artifact known as the Tear of the Goddess . After removing the magical gem from its base, the temple triggered a mechanism that released a swarm of Voidling creatures from the ground and slowly sealed the temple entrance. Just as the door closed and the swarm closed in, Kai'Sa flew down and blasted a bunch of Voidlings and a hole through the closed entrance. Kai'Sa continued fighting off the swarm while Ezreal had a chance to run off with the gemstone. However, Ezreal hesitated and noticed Kai'Sa getting overwhelmed by the amount of Voidlings, dropping the gem and firing an arcane blast at the creatures before teleporting at Kai'Sa's side. The two fought alongside each other and cleared out most of the swarm as they quickly rushed towards the exit, managing to escape and eventually part ways. [ 5 ]
Ezreal is a young slim pale skinned man with tousled blonde hair and blue eyes.
He wears a brown leather jacket, sometimes undersized so it barely reaches his waist, and some others a more regular sized one. In some versions of the jacket, the collar has a deep-blue furry lining, while in others the jacket has a hood in which the lining is shorter and more wooly-looking, but of a similar color. Both of his sleeves are rolled up, exposing his forearms. Underneath the jacket. he wears a white shirt with a low V-neck which is adorned with brown colored diamond motives. Since its sleeves can't be seen on his arms, it is either a short-sleeved t-shirt or a tank top. On his left hand he wears an oversized bronze colored (depicted usually more yellowish) glove shaped Shuriman artifact known as the Gauntlet of Ne'Zuk. On his right hand he wears a fingerless glove, probably made from some kind of leather.
He also wears dark high boots and skinny jeans with a pair of belts: one for the jeans themselves and another with several pockets. He wears a secondary thigh belt with an extra pocket in his right leg and has both knees protected by brown colored pads sewed into the jeans.
His most distinctive physical feature is the pair of triangular-shaped light blue colored marks appearing right on his cheekbones, products of magic expression in his body that glow brighter when he channels magical energy. [ 6 ] He also wears a pair of protective glasses, either tightened into his head or hanging from his neck.
Ezreal is an intelligent and cunning young man. He also appears very self-confident, to the point of arrogance, recklessness, or narcissism – always getting into trouble, not being very careful of traps and monsters, and taking a blasé attitude towards any 'collateral damage' his exploits might incur. [ 7 ]
As stated in his biography, much of his attention-seeking behavior stems from his childhood, and particularly from his parents' disappearance. As a child attending university at petition of his uncle, he was already known as a troublemaker: lockpicking into restricted areas, evading the university wardens, rearranging the professors desks, and even more infamous and notoriously complex pranks. [ 8 ] Even his shenanigans as an explorer – ignoring any rules or legal procedures in favor of success – can be seen as rooted in the childish hope that his parents are still out there and will come back to him if he makes enough of a reputation as an explorer.
Despite his egotistical facade, Ezreal is a wounded individual, using bravado to cover his trauma from others as well as himself. [ 7 ] [ 9 ] He is very critical of the people and city he grew up in , because he sees his own flaws exaggerated in them. [ 9 ]
He also has a rather severe self-image problem, dissonant with his exterior self-centered attitude, Ezreal appears uncomfortable seeing his reflection in a mirror. [ 9 ]
Ezreal's parents were renowned archaeologists of Piltover who, due to their expeditions and adventures, would often leave Ezreal under the care of his uncle Professor Lymere. Despite their absences, they had a very clear love for their son and kept a good relationship with him on the short occasions that they'd return home.
Ezreal's father would often tell him stories of their many adventures that amazed the young boy, sparking his initial interest in adventuring and following in his parents' footsteps. Ezreal initially heard the story of Ne'Zuk from his father, who often described it as his most ambitiously planned expedition and joked that he wanted to learn Ne'Zuk's teleportation magic so that he could instantly teleport back home after an adventure.
Ezreal's mother was a talented navigator, who kept meticulous field notes. Ezreal would eventually use her notes to help him navigate Shurima when he initially searched for the Tomb of Ne'Zuk.
After their sudden disappearance, their fates remain unknown. Professor Lymere believes that they most likely died on their adventure. However, Ezreal was unable to cope with their loss, and clings to the idea that they'll eventually return. To this day, Ezreal continues to create a name for himself as a famous explorer, in the hopes that his parents will catch word of their son's grand feats, and convince them to return home.
Professor Lymere is Ezreal's uncle, and his primary caretaker while growing up due to the absence of his parents. Due to Ezreal's troublesome nature as a child, the two had a rocky and tumultuous relationship. In order to occupy the boy and keep him from causing trouble, Professor Lymere enrolled him into college level courses, which proved ineffective due to Ezreal's incredible ability to absorb and retain knowledge. Freeing up his time from his uncle's classes, Ezreal would continue to cause mischief on the university campus, often angering Professor Lymere.
To this day the two stay in touch and, despite their turbulent relationship, Ezreal seems to share some respect for his uncle as a professor. When Ezreal discovered Lymere's theories on Zaun's ancient history as a Shuriman port city called Oshra Va'Zaun, he felt a bit of pity due to his lack of evidence and traversed the Vault of Resplendent Hollies to search for some to bring back, yet intended to take all the credit for himself.
Ne'Zuk is an ancient Ixtali Ascended tyrant who was long dead before Ezreal raided his tomb in search of his parents. Though his tomb held the gauntlet that Ezreal eventually took, it is actually a part of a pair of gauntlets that were originally wielded by another Ascended named Horok, who Ne'Zuk seemingly murdered and took the gauntlet from in ancient times. [ 10 ]
Ezreal encountered the Avarosan tribe when he travelled to the Freljord and stole a silver totem at the top of a freezing mountain. It's unclear what exactly transpired, but Ezreal insists on having never met the Avarosans, most likely in fear of being caught for something he did while grabbing the silver totem.
The Black Rose seem aware of Ezreal's name as a growing, renown adventurer. Though Ezreal doesn't seem completely aware of who the Black Rose are, he seems knowledgable about the dark magics hiding underneath the Noxian capital and encountered several Black Rose spies when he tried meeting with a mysterious contact for archival material at Noxus.
Though Ezreal doesn't officially know who Neeko really is, he seemingly encountered her on his expedition to Paretha in search of the Elixir of Uloa. While in the jungles of Paretha, Ezreal encountered Neeko as she disguised herself as him, which Ezreal convinced himself was a hallucination from ingesting the taffa flower water.
Ezreal never formally met or was introduced to Illaoi, but he caught a clear glimpse of her while in Bilgewater , studying the Buhru culture and the origin of their religion. While enjoying the Buhru festivities, Ezreal saw Illaoi but focused more on her idol she carried around rather than the priestess herself.
As part of his mission to create a name for himself, Ezreal constantly wishes to join the Piltover Explorers Guild as an official member. However, the guild denied Ezreal's application and actively avoids accrediting him as a member. When speaking with another member of the guild named Januk, Ezreal learns that the guild isn't fond of Ezreal due to his unorthodox methods in exploration and possibly due to his prideful personality as well.
Because of this, Ezreal resents the guild and its members for not allowing him to join. He still considers the guild to be one of the more painful things he's been denied entry in. [ 3 ]
Januk is a Freljordian member of the Piltover Explorers Guild, most known for illegally raiding museums and dining on his collection of treasures. Despite working together on a couple adventures, the two consider each other rivals and enemies due to a streak of betrayals. Though Ezreal himself can't recall who started it, the earliest known instance is when Ezreal seemingly ran off with an important map that Januk needed. As payback, Januk blew Ezreal's cover when the two salvaged the wreck of a ship called the Echelon Dawn.
Most recently, Januk agreed to pay and accredit Ezreal to the guild if he obtained the mystical Elixir of Uloa for him. However, when Ezreal returned with the Elixir, Januk betrayed him and revealed himself as a cultist in service to a fallen dreadlord . Ezreal managed to beat Januk by swapping the potion with a laxative poison, before stealing his Ochnun bell and exiting through his office window.
Ezreal met Kasdjar when he traveled to the Shuriman city of Bel'zhun , which had been occupied by Noxian rule. Ezreal hired Kasdjar to be his guide due to his notable charisma and knowledge on the ancient histories of Shurima. The two travelled together through the desert, ranging from the ancient city of Nerimazeth to the deserts of the Sai Kahleek .
Unfortunately, at some unspecified point, Kasdjar perished when a giant obelisk fell and crushed him instantly. Ezreal, though he hardly knew Kasdjar, feels bad about his untimely death nonetheless.
While travelling Shurima with his guide Kasdjar, Ezreal encountered and defeated many Xer'Sai creatures while traversing the southern sands of Sai Kahleek .
Ezreal hasn't encountered Rek'Sai herself but battled several of her Xer'Sai spawn while traversing the Sai Kahleek. Taking shelter inside a massive circular cavern, Ezreal's guide recognized the cave as massive Xer'Sai burrow and most likely the lair of Rek'Sai herself, who they referred to as the Sand Mother. Learning this, the two quickly left Rek'Sai's nest before she could return.
Though the two have never met each other, Kassadin and Ezreal are intricately linked due to their pasts. Unaware to Ezreal, his gauntlet is a single part of a pair originally wielded by the Ascended hero Horok before Ne'Zuk murdered him and took the gauntlet for himself. Kassadin is aware of this knowledge and actually wields the second gauntlet that Horok managed to keep known as the Nether Blade . [ 11 ]
Though not directly stated, it is heavily implied that Ezreal's parents actually knew Kassadin and hired him as a guide in search for Ne'Zuk's Tomb. However, the group actually found Horok's tomb instead holding the Nether Blade, which Ezreal's parents considered valuable all the same. [ 12 ]
On an expedition to obtain the Tear of the Goddess in a Shuriman tomb, Ezreal encountered Kai'Sa, who saved him from a swarm of Voidlings attacking him. Though she blew an exit in the tomb for Ezreal to escape out of, he refused to leave her and teleported in, fighting the swarm of Voidlings alongside her as the two quickly escaped the tomb together.
Though their exact relationship is unknown, he is one of the few people that Kai'Sa considers a close friend alongside Taliyah . [ 13 ]
The Prodigal Explorer
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Ezreal
Short Story
An Explorer's Journey
A Handwritten Account of the Discovery of the Vault of Resplendent Holies By Piltover 's greatest, fully-accreddited † explorer. †Official Piltover Explorers Guild membership still pending.
Ezreal's Field Notes
Who needs a map?
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Curator's Gambit
Look, I should be clear—I didn't want anything to do with “the dread lord,” or whoever Januk was talking about. I was just trying to sell this stupid little vial to the guy who asked me to get it for him. Should have been easy.
Mentioned: Mordekaiser , Sona
The Elixir of Uloa
By Rayla Heide
After hours of trekking through the stiflingly humid jungle, the cool air of this underground crypt is sweet bliss. Sure, potential death awaits at every turn, but so does certain glory.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
An ancient mystery in Runeterra
By Explorer Ezreal
Starring: Aatrox , Ezreal
Mentioned: Jayce , Lux , Twisted Fate
There's nothing like teaming up with your favorite duo partner in League of Legends. Just ask LilyPichu and sleightlymusical. It's On.
Starring: Ezreal , Lux , Swain
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Mentioned: Caitlyn
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Pulsefire Revealed
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Harmonies: Issue 1
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Represent Your House
Which side will you choose?
Mentioned: Ezreal , Jayce , Katarina , Lux
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Something has awoken in Runeterra. Something ancient. Something terrible. The ageless horror known as Fiddlesticks stalks the edges of mortal society, drawn to areas thick with paranoia where it feeds upon terrorized victims. Wielding a jagged scythe, the haggard, makeshift creature reaps fear itself, shattering the minds of those unlucky enough to survive in its wake. Beware the sounding of the crow, or the whispering of the shape that appears almost human... Fiddlesticks has returned.
The origin of Fiddlesticks is shrouded in mystery and filled with myths, tales, and horror stories that have risen theorizing about its origin. One such story is that Fiddlesticks was accidentally released by a mage tampering with powers beyond their understanding. A story from Noxus depicts Fiddlesticks as an innocent farmboy who was blamed for a bad harvest and fed to the crows that came back as a demon. Despite no shortage of stories and theories, no one truly knows where Fiddlesticks came from.
Despite many tales and stories about Fiddlesticks, its existence was treated as myth by many until disappearances and sightings started happening in the Demacian hinterlands. This was Fiddlesticks, attracted to the rising fear and paranoia among the people of Demacia. Fiddlesticks had returned, and was coming to cause chaos.
Fiddlesticks is mostly known as a shambling figure of scrap and shadow somewhat resembling a scarecrow. A torn burlap sackcloth rests over its "face", which is little more than two holes for glowing red eyes and a mouth of rows and rows of jagged metal teeth, secured around its "neck" by a rope which carries three keys.
A mass of red-tinged shadows grow from various points along Fiddlesticks's body, one large growth emerging from its back, and the rest occasionally forming extra arms for Fiddlesticks, of which it already has three metal ones made of rusted scrap. One of these arms is connected to its body by a sawblade which emerges from its shoulder.
At the center of Fiddlesticks's torso is a cage which houses the true essence of Fiddlesticks, as the body itself is merely puppetted around by the essence within the cage. Inside the cage is a shifting cloud of red eyes and shadowed forms from which its crows sprout.
However, this is only the appearance of the Demacian incarnation of Fiddlesticks. While the red-black mass of crows which makes up the essence of Fiddlesticks remains constant, the body which carries it changes based on the trash around it. [ 1 ] For example, in the Freljord , Fiddlesticks is known to be made up of helmets, bucklers, wood, & furs. [ 2 ]
Fiddlesticks is a creature of pure emotional instinct that doesn't understand the form it takes or the words it repeats, who was created from the formless negative energy endemic to all life. [ 3 ]
Though not directly equals, Fiddlesticks is still directly related to the other demons currently on Runeterra, such as Evelynn , Tahm Kench , Nocturne and Raum , the demon that Swain is allied with.
Along with this, Fiddlesticks's incomprehensibly ancient age may be the reason as to why it is the only champion to refer to Kindred's original name, referring to them as the "Grey man" .
Zoe at some point took a key from Fiddlesticks. It is unknown what this key does, but one story as to Fiddlesticks's origins is a Targonian legend that tells of how a child of twilight stole the only joy from a ragged, whispering horror. [ 4 ] [ 5 ]
The Ancient Fear
By Jared Rosen
Starring: Fiddlesticks
Mentioned: Zoe
Terror in Demacia
An ancient fear awakens.
Short Story
Ten great kings took ten great thrones,
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Rayla Heide
Niram and his fellow brigands readied their horses beneath the noonday sun. He fastened the buckle of the last satchel on his horse. Each was filled with an assortment of ornately carved daggers, snowfox furs, and cured meat. The stolen wares weighed his horse's saddle down so significantly he decided to walk her back to their camp.
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The most feared duelist in all Valoran , Fiora is as renowned for her brusque manner and political cunning as she is for the speed of her rapier . Born to the noble Laurent family in Demacia , Fiora claimed the household from her father in the wake of a scandal that nearly destroyed them—now she is dedicated to restoring the Laurents to their rightful place among the great and good of the kingdom.
Fiora Laurent cuts a figure of both elegance and lethality. Her lithe frame is clad in gleaming armor, polished to a mirror shine. The armor itself is intricate Demacian steel, adorned with flourishes that hint at her noble heritage. Beneath the armor, glimpses of fine leather undergarments peek through, hinting at her agility. Her most striking feature is her face, framed by a cascade of fiery red hair. Her eyes, a piercing blue, radiate unwavering determination and focus. In her hand, she carries her signature weapon, a rapier named Riposte. The rapier's blade is as sharp and deadly as Fiora herself, its intricate filigree hinting at its legendary status.
Jax might be the 'worthy opponent' Fiora longs for. He may also be interested in having her join his rebuilt Kohari.
Fiora was set to marry a member of the Crownguard House but rejected it, leading to her father Sebastien having to participate in a death duel. Tianna , Garen and Lux's aunt, selected a veteran warrior from the Dauntless Vanguard to fight for her kinsman so that his defeat would be certain. As a result, she may have some resentment toward their family.
Garen and Fiora know each other, as she helps train the Dauntless Vanguard , though they never train together as "the outcome would be obvious". They fought together against the dragon that attacked Ehrenmount .
The Grand Duelist
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Fiora
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Tianna
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
A Matter of Honor
The man Fiora was going to kill was named Umberto. He had the look of a man very sure of himself. She watched him talking to four men, so alike they must surely be his brothers. The five of them were cocksure and preening, as though it was beneath their dignity to even present themselves in the Hall of Blades in answer to her challenge.
Before Glory
Two aspiring young warriors sneak into a Demacian training arena, hoping to walk in the footsteps of their heroes, Garen Crownguard and Fiora Laurent.
Starring: Fiora , Garen , Severos
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
None Shall Pass
Jax sat cross-legged at the center of the bridge with his long-hafted polearm resting on his knees. Demacia had not changed much since he had last traveled this way, but that didn't surprise him. Its people zealously protected their borders, which had turned them into pretty decent fighters. Well, some of them anyway, he thought, wiping a spot of blood from the softly glowing head of the lamppost. He flicked the droplet over the parapet to the river below and reached into his robe to pull out his third hard-boiled egg of the day. Tapping it on the cobbles, he slowly peeled the shell as he heard the warriors at the end of the bridge try to decide which one of them would face him next.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Fiora
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Fiora , Vladimir
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
Short Story
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Mentioned: Caitlyn
Save the Celebration
Honor the past, protect the future. Every year, a beast of legend arrives to threaten the Lunar New Year, and every year, a team of heroes is chosen to stand as guardians over the celebration.
Starring: Alistar , Annie , Darius , Fiora , Jarvan IV
Systems Online
In the wake of a ruthless Praetorian threat, an elite team converges to stop them. Prepare to engage—you're just in time.
Starring: Ekko , Fiora , Graves , Lucian , Pantheon
Where the Heavens Touch the Earth
By Numerous creators
Starring: Fiora , Janna , Master Yi
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Music Video
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Fizz is an amphibious yordle , who dwells among the reefs surrounding Bilgewater . He often retrieves and returns the tithes cast into the sea by superstitious captains, but even the saltiest of sailors know better than to cross him—for many are the tales of those who have underestimated this slippery character. Often mistaken for some manner of capricious ocean spirit, he seems able to command the beasts of the deep, and delights in confounding his allies and enemies alike.
In ages past, the oceans of Runeterra were home to civilizations far older than those of the land. In the depths of what is now the Guardian’s Sea , a great city once stood—it was here that the yordle Fizz made his home. He lived alongside the artisans and warriors of that proud, noble race. Even though he was not one of them, they treated him as an equal, and his playful nature and tall tales of adventures in the open sea made him welcome at any gathering.
But the world was changing. The oceans were growing warmer, emboldening fierce predators to rise up from the deepest trenches. Other settlements had fallen silent, but the rulers of the great city could still not agree on how to deal with the threat. Fizz pledged to roam the seas in search of survivors, or anyone who knew what had happened.
Then, one dark day, the gigalodons came.
These huge dragon-sharks stunned their prey with fell shrieking, and the avenues of the great city were soon clouded red. Thousands died in a matter of hours, the immense bulk of their killers crushing towers and temples in a monstrous feeding frenzy. Scenting blood in the water, Fizz raced back, determined to join the fight and save the city.
He was too late. There was nothing left of the city to save. When the debris finally settled, not a single living creature remained, nor any stone upon another, and the ravenous shoal had moved on. Alone in the cold depths, Fizz sank into mournful despair. As his yordle magic began to fade, he let himself be carried by the currents, drifting in a catatonic torpor, dreaming away the millennia…
It was only chance that reawakened him. A handful of copper coins fell from above, scattered to the seabed in the wake of a huge, wooden fish that swam upon the surface. This was no gigalodon, but Fizz was alarmed nonetheless—he knew little of the world overhead, but surely no fish could survive up there? He ventured up and peered into the salty air for the first time.
There were people, people who lived outside of the water and sailed in wooden fish of all sizes. Fizz found the thought both frightening and exciting, but the curious gifts they cast into the water made it clear that they wanted to be his friends. In time, following their movements to and fro across the oceans, he came to the port city of Bilgewater.
To the inhabitants of that lawless place, this strange and slippery creature quickly became something of a legend—the Tidal Trickster, a spirit of the ocean itself. It is said that he can summon great beasts to do his bidding, hole a ship’s hull with his stone trident, and breathe air or water as it suits him. Many a misbehaving child has been warned on a moonless night: “Go quickly to sleep, or the Trickster will come and feed you to the fishes…”
Unlike many of his Yordle brethren, Fizz's appearance lacks any fur. Instead, he exhibits more amphibian characteristics, with tentacles resembling dreadlocks growing out of his head. Gills on the side of his torso allow him to breathe underwater, and he possesses wider arms and legs than other Yordles, featuring 3-digit hands and feet with webbing that allows for faster movement underwater. His light blue skin transitions into darker hues towards his lower body, adorned with white spots, notably on his stomach.
While Fizz's distinctive appearance is likely a result of his environment, it remains unclear why there aren't more Yordles who share his likeness. Notably, as the oldest known Yordle, predating even Gnar , Fizz maintains a form reminiscent of a "pre-continental" era, which diverges from the more common furry appearance observed in his Yordle peers.
In the beginning, Fizz was a proud and headstrong warrior of a ancient aquatic civilization. Like most Yordles, Fizz was greatly attached to his civilization of choice, and dedicated his life to protect it, training to become a powerful warrior against terrible foes.
When that aquatic civilization was destroyed anyway, the trauma made Fizz sank in a despair so big that he hibernated, were he remained for centuries.
After waking up from his coma in Bilgewater. Fizz personality changed greatly. He became the trickster of Bilgewater, a strange and mercurial creature of the seas. Thought generally good natured, Fizz pranks often lead to chaos and destruction, such as the sinking of ships and massive amounts of casualties. In spite of this, Fizz often tends to help the good natured and punish those that try to abuse the oceans.
Fizz is friend with many creatures of the shallow sea surrounding Serpent Isles such as Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Nautilus hates Fizz and would like to see him dead, though Fizz may not be fully aware of that fact.
The Tidal Trickster
By Laurie Goulding
Starring: Fizz
The Lucky Kraken
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Eh! Well, 'allo there, young 'uns. Shouldn't you cheeky little sprats already be a-bed? What's that? You want a suppertime story from old One-Legged Lars, eh?
Mentioned: Nautilus
Short Story
Dead in the Water
By Graham McNeill
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Destiny and Fate
Ah, Bilgewater.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Rafen
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Cats Versus Dogs (Video)
This April Fools’, leave it all on the show floor.
Starring: Corki , Fizz , Rengar , Yorick
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Music Video
Worlds Collide
By Numerous creators
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Outside the Great City of Demacia , the stone colossus Galio keeps vigilant watch. Built as a bulwark against enemy mages, he often stands motionless for decades until the presence of powerful magic stirs him to life. Once activated, Galio makes the most of his time, savoring the thrill of a fight and the rare honor of defending his countrymen. But his triumphs are always bittersweet, for the magic he destroys is also his source of reanimation, and each victory leaves him dormant once again.
Galio was built over two years during the kingdom's early years in the 3rd and 4th centuries AN. Upon the slopes of the Greenfang Mountains, a group of Demacian soldiers was battered by a barrage of arcane magic projected by a powerful group of Noxian warmages. It was here that Galio absorbed the emanating magic and awoke for the first time.
Sometime after Lux had left the Great City of Demacia, he was summoned by her to aid herself, Garen and other Demacian soldiers at a northern fortress in fighting off Sylas and his Winter's Claw allies.
Galio is takes the appearance of a large muscular gargoyle, with wing motifs reminiscent to the winged sister during Demacia's early years. His body is mostly made of petricite, which is of a white marble-like color, Some gold elements are present around his body, giving him a regal appearance.
Galio, when active, has a cheerful personality, always eager to help people in need, as well as fight whenever called upon. He has no particular fondness for most mages, as most of his encounters with them are from opposing armies.
Galio was designed by Arcturus J. Durand, who also crafted Sylas shackles. Galio is the only instance of animated golem published by Durand.
Galio fought Vladimir and the Noxian army at some point.
As most Demacians do, the Crownguards make an annual pilgrimage to visit Galio on the Memorial Road. This is how he first became aware of Lux , reacting to the growing presence of the light magic within her each year ever since she was a toddler. Galio sees Lux as the only mage he likes and has become a sort of guardian to her. Lux is apparently the first person to have an actual conversation with him. She was 13-years-old at the time. [ 1 ]
The Colossus
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Galio
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
A Hero Wakes
A taste of magic is all it takes to wake the Colossus and send him smashing. And he just got one.
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
Flesh and Stone
A young girl ashamed of her power. A monolith that can't help his curiosity. An unlikely pair - or the perfect match?
Starring: Galio , Lux
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
Short Story
Art is Life
By Graham McNeill
Nights in Noxus were never silent.
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: Galio , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Mordekaiser
Lux: Issue 2
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
We're Taking Over.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As unpredictable as he is brutal, the dethroned reaver king Gangplank is feared far and wide. Once, he ruled the port city of Bilgewater , and while his reign is over, there are those who believe this has only made him more dangerous. Gangplank would see Bilgewater bathed in blood once more before letting someone else take it—and now with pistol, cutlass, and barrels of gunpowder, he is determined to reclaim what he has lost.
Gangplank is a cruel pirate captain who maintains his power through fear alone. As such, he can be exceedingly brutal in his methods, even torturing members of his own crew should they step out of line. With bone-carving and mutilation, Gangplank also showcases an artistic side in his own sick and twisted way. In his quest to be feared, Gangplank often touts his own reputation to frighten people into submission. He often remarks at how many have tried (and failed) to kill him, and shows a remarkable resistance to pain when he orders a doctor to amputate his arm without a fuss. Gangplank is shown to have little remorse for his cruel behavior, killing Sarah Fortune's mother without mercy.
Gangplank and Illaoi were in a relationship over a decade ago, but eventually broke up. After subjecting him to a Test of Spirit in order to get him back 'in motion', the Kraken Priestess ordered the Serpent Islander chiefs to support the Saltwater Scourge in retaking Bilgewater. They would lead Gangplank to Buhru artifacts that could control the Black Mist. Illaoi was Gangplank's first love. She would eventually oppose him alongside Ahri , Braum , Miss Fortune , Pyke , and Yasuo in Ruined King .
Gangplank would enter a partnership with Thresh in Ruined King , in order to awaken and subjugate Viego to conquer Bilgewater. Viego's power would prove too strong for Gangplank and ended up controlling him instead.
Swain and Zed want Gangplank dead for stealing from each of them. Namely, Gangplank stole Swain's personal warship known as the Leviathan and ransacked the Temple of the Jagged Knife belonging to Zed's Shadow Order .
Miss Fortune managed to overthrow and 'kill' Gangplank in revenge for him murdering her mother back when she was a girl. Gangplank had only thought of Miss Fortune as the most persistent of bounty hunters, unaware that she is the daughter of the gunsmith he killed when she refused to hand over the twin pistols he had commissioned in order to spearhead his rise to Reaver King of Bilgewater.
Miss Fortune would defeat Gangplank again in Ruined King and had him detained in order to publicly execute him as a show of power. He would escape before his execution and entered a massive gang war against Fortune.
The Saltwater Scourge
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Gangplank
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Swain
Short Story • 1 Minute Read
Blood in the Water
The massive Noxian war captain shuddered and dropped his axe as Gangplank rammed his cutlass deep into the man's gut. Blood bubbled from the warrior's tattooed lips as he mouthed an unheard curse.
Short Story • 34 Minute Read
Burning Tides: Act 1
By Alison Hawkes , George Krstic , Anthony Reynolds Lenné , John O'Bryan
The Rat Town slaughter docks; they smell as bad as their name suggests.
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Twisted Fate
Short Story
Burning Tides: Act 2
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Burning Tides: Act 3
Burning Tides: Epilogue
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
Truth Bearer, this is why we must retreat to Buhru. We cannot save the paylangi' the Hierophant said. The heavy-set woman grinned, obviously pleased by the prospect of leaving Bilgewater.
Starring: Gangplank , Illaoi
Mentioned: Graves , Miss Fortune , Nagakabouros , Twisted Fate
Dead in the Water
By Graham McNeill
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Destiny and Fate
Ah, Bilgewater.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Down Among the Dead Men
Bilgewater's White Wharf had earned its name thanks to the layer of bird waste covering it from end to end, which was only to be expected at a resting place for the dead. Folk here didn't bury corpses; they returned them to the sea. A grave of the sunken dead hung suspended in the cold depths, marked by hundreds of bobbing grave-buoys. Some were merely name posts, while others were elaborate tomb markers carved to resemble rearing krakens or buxom sea wenches.
Starring: Miss Fortune
Mentioned: Gangplank
Fortune Smiles
By Anthony Burch
Bilgewater. A haven for Runeterra's most notorious monster hunters, mercenaries, and scoundrels. For decades, a ruthless pirate named Gangplank kept the city in check. Under his merciless rule, Bilgewater was an orderly place to make a dishonest living. But now Gangplank is dead. Murdered, by a crimson-haired bounty hunter seeking vengeance for her parents' deaths. Bilgewater has descended into chaos. Only the woman who killed Gangplank can save it. Her name is Sarah. They call her Miss Fortune.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
The Bounty Hunter
The Card Master
Starring: Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Gangplank , Graves
The Kraken Priestess
Starring: Illaoi
Mentioned: Gangplank , Nagakabouros
Starring: Graves
Mentioned: Gangplank , Twisted Fate
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
By Numerous creators
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
First light after the Harrowing
Though the Black Mist fades and the souls it claimed will soon forget their past, the threat of the fell tide will not be forgotten. Worse than all previous years, those who lived are left to wonder where it will return, and whether anyone will survive when it does.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Gangplank , Hecarim , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Nautilus
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A proud and noble soldier, Garen fights at the head of the Dauntless Vanguard . He is popular among his fellows, and respected well enough by his enemies—not least as a scion of the prestigious Crownguard family , entrusted with defending Demacia and its ideals. Clad in magic-resistant armor and bearing a mighty broadsword, Garen stands ready to confront mages and sorcerers on the field of battle, in a veritable whirlwind of righteous steel.
At 12 years old, Garen left High Silvermere to join the military. By the time Garen was 18 years old he has served with honor in campaigns along the Freljordian borders, played a key role in purging cultists from the Silent Forest, fought alongside the defenders of Whiterock, and started the trials necessary to join the ranks of the Dauntless Vanguard . At the age of 21, Garen joined the ranks of the Dauntless Vanguard .
Garen is a tall and stocky handsome man, with fair skin, a strong jaw, short brown hair, and blue eyes.
Garen is Lux's older brother and their family name is Crownguard. He deeply respects and loves his sister, but he fears what may happen to her if her magical abilities were to be revealed. After the events of the Lux comic , Lux got Garen to verbally acknowledge that she was a mage. The two parted ways on good terms. In the end Garen ended up accepting his magician sister and that not all magicians are bad people. He and their aunt, Tianna Crownguard , planned on arranging Lux to marry prince Jarvan IV in order to protect her from persecution. As their family name implies, they serve and protect the crown.
It is hinted that Garen and Katarina have feelings for each other. Then there are those who imply it to the point of confirmation:
Their special interactions with each other and various others in Legends of Runeterra suggests that at some point the two are in a romantic relationship, which they try to keep secret.
Jarvan IV is Garen's childhood friend. When the Exemplar was captured, Garen felt responsible and led the Dauntless Vanguard on a rescue operation.
Garen and Taric are long-time friends from the Shield of Valoran's days in the Demacian military. Garen was furious at being convinced Taric was wasting his talents as a warrior but he still believed in him.
Garen and Luxanna's father, Pieter Crownguard was a defender during the failed Noxian assault nicknamed Cyrus's Folly . This is likely referring to the same Cyrus who conquered the port city Basilich, which also happens to be the home town of Darius and his younger brother .
Nocturne terrorized the Demacian settlement of Fossbarrow until Garen and Lux expelled him from neighboring tomb. Nocturne was sealed in the grave of their great-grandfather Fossian, who died during the fight versus him, before a young mage named Luca accidentally woke him up.
Garen has fought Sylas and his allies multiple times.
Garen encountered Galio when his sister summoned the Colossus to fight off Sylas and the Winter's Claw .
Garen and Fiora know each other, as she helps train the Dauntless Vanguard , though they never train together as "the outcome would be obvious". They fought together against the dragon that attacked Ehrenmount .
The Might of Demacia
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Garen
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Tianna
Before Glory
Two aspiring young warriors sneak into a Demacian training arena, hoping to walk in the footsteps of their heroes, Garen Crownguard and Fiora Laurent.
Starring: Fiora , Garen , Severos
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
Short Story
Garen: First Shield
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The King is dead. Demacia is mourning. And in the eyes of Garen Crownguard, it’s his fault. But can he rise to the challenge when Demacia needs him again? While on a peacetime expedition beyond the borders of Demacia, Garen, Quinn, and the Dauntless Vanguard uncover a plot that threatens to destroy long-standing alliances. As the knight-ranger Quinn tries to get word back to Demacia, Garen and his comrades make a desperate last stand. How long can they last, and at what cost?
Starring: Cithria , Garen , Quinn , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 3
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Katarina
Mentioned: Arrika , Drann , Jarvan III , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas
Legends Never Die
The pursuit of mastery is an endless journey, but those who persevere etch their names in history.
Starring: Ashe , Garen , Lee Sin
Lux: Issue 1
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
In Demacia, order reigns and magic is forbidden. How will the order be upset when Lux's hidden magic emerges?
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV
Lux: Issue 2
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
Lux: Issue 3
If saving Sylas means exposing her powers, will Lux dare risk her own future to save a criminal?
Lux: Issue 4
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
Lux: Issue 5
As all mages are hunted down by Prince Jarvan IV and forces led by Garen, Lux must make her ultimate decision!
Mentioned: Jarvan III
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 7 Minute Read
The Soldier and the Hag
The Lady of the Stones took a fellow soldier. Now, she'll take on Garen and his broadsword.
Mentioned: Lux
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
Katarina: Issue 2
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Katarina: Issue 5
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
In the wake of disaster, Lux risks all for the sake of a wounded soldier.
Starring: Lux
Mentioned: Garen , Morgana
Shield of Remembrance
Quinn ran through the forest, moving softly and swiftly.
Starring: Dalin , Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Anivia , Garen , Genevieve , Sylas , Tianna
Stand With Sylas
Demacia is built on a lie. All these noble ideals and promises of a brighter future - they were never meant for us. For too long have we mages had to hide in the shadows, and it has cost us everything. It is time we stand up and fight back!
Starring: Sylas
Mentioned: Garen
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
The Exemplar of Demacia
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Jarvan IV
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Shyvana , Sion , Tianna , Xin Zhao
The Lady of Luminosity
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Tianna
The Shield of Valoran
By George Krstic
Starring: Taric
The Weight of Expectations
By Amanda Jeffrey
Cithria hacked at the ground with the mattock, her shoulders burning with the exertion.
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Battle of the God-Kings
Starring: Darius , Garen
Dawn by Raid
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Leona , Wukong , Yone
Enemy of my Enemy
Two sworn enemies discover a newfound respect for each other when they're forced to put their differences aside and work together against a common enemy.
Starring: Garen , Katarina
Faction Wars
Starring: Garen , Swain
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lucian , Qiyana , Yasuo
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Demacia Needs Heroes
She is a new kind of hero, one of new mind and new method. One who can go where armies cannot reach, where swords cannot clash.
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan IV , Talon
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Gnar is an excitable yordle whose playful antics can erupt into a toddler's outrage in an instant, transforming him into a massive beast bent on destruction. Frozen in True Ice for millennia, the curious creature broke free and now hops about a changed world he sees as exotic and wondrous. Delighted by danger, Gnar flings whatever he can at his enemies, be it his bonetooth boomerang... or an uprooted tree.
Before the ice had given the Freljord its name, there existed a land brimming with wonder—that is, if one could see the world through the eyes of Gnar.
A young yordle with boundless energy, Gnar and others like him lived openly among the hardy tribes of the northlands. Though barely big enough to leave footprints in the snow, his temper rivaled that of beasts ten times his size, and he would erupt with a babble of curses the moment anything went amiss. For this reason, he felt more kinship with the greater and wiser creatures, who kept their distance from mortals. To Gnar, they looked like overgrown, white-furred yordles… and that was good enough for him.
While the tribes foraged across the tundra, gathering wild berries and tasty moss, Gnar collected more essential items, like rocks, pebbles, and the muddy remains of dead birds. His greatest treasure was the jawbone of a drüvask. When he tugged it from the cold earth, he squealed with glee and flung it as far as he could.
It landed two hops away.
Thrilled by this early success, Gnar carried his “boomerang” wherever he went. The world would try its best to offer him new delights—shiny lint, sweet nectar, round things—but none could match the pure joy he felt in throwing and catching his cherished weapon. He now considered himself a hunter, and trailed herds of wild beasts that paid him no mind.
But even he could sense change coming to the land. The sky seemed darker. The winds felt colder. The mortal tribes who had once foraged together, now appeared to hunt each other…
The big white yordles would know what to do. Gnar would go to them.
Using all of his hunting skill, he tracked them into the snow-capped peaks of a vast mountain range, much farther than he had ever wandered before. As he approached unseen, he also saw more mortals than he could count. This was exciting, but no one else seemed too happy about it.
Then the ground shook, and split apart. For the first time in Gnar’s life, it seemed as though everyone else was throwing tantrums. The mortals yelled. The big yordles roared.
But the monster’s arrival silenced them all.
Heaving itself up from the newly opened abyss, it bore huge horns, whipping tentacles, and a single eye, burning with strange light that made the fur on Gnar’s back crawl. While some mortals fled at the sight, he began to feel an odd pain in his chest—it was like the thought of losing his boomerang, or never being hugged again. This horrible thing wanted to hurt his new friends.
And this made him angry. In that moment, Gnar truly raged.
All he could see was the monster. In a flash, he was in the air, leaping toward it. In one paw, he grasped a snowball… or so he thought. In fact, it was a boulder plucked from the mountainside, for Gnar had grown as large as the big white yordles. He would send this monster back where it came from, by walloping its face!
But the blow never landed. Gnar felt a chill colder than any winter, one that seemed to turn the air itself into ice—truly, this elemental magic froze him in place, biting through his shaggy fur. Everything, including the monster, became quiet. The yordle’s strength and anger melted away. A deep tiredness crept into his limbs, and he fell softly asleep.
Gnar napped for a long time. When he finally awoke, he shook the frost from his shoulders, breathing heavily. Everyone else was gone. With no monsters to fight and no friends to protect, he felt very small and alone again.
The land was very different, too. There was snow everywhere , blanketing everything as far as his wide eyes could see. Still, he let out a happy yelp when he saw his beloved boomerang lying beside him, and scurried away to find something to hunt.
Even now, Gnar has no grasp of what took place that fateful day, nor how he escaped. He simply marvels at the world before him, with so many oddities to collect and places to explore.
Like most modern Yordles , Gnar boasts thick fur and prominent pointed ears. His entire body is enveloped in orange fur with white accents. Teal blue hues adorn the fur at the tips of his tail and ears. A distinctive tuft of chestnut-colored fur adorns his upper chest, forming a scarf-like appearance around his neck. Gnar's attire is minimal, consisting of a chestnut-colored loincloth as well as a small bird skull perched atop his head. Unlike modern Yordles, he has a pair of large lower canine teeth that protrude from his mouth.
In his enraged state, Gnar undergoes a significant increase in size. In this transformed state, he lacks full fur coverage, exposing a gray skin underneath. The color of his fur shifts from orange to a deep, dark red. His already sizable lower canine teeth experience further growth, now matching the size of his ears. The teal blue hues that previously adorned the tips of his tail and ears extend to encompass his enlarged arms, chin, eyebrows and upper back.
Gnar has the mentality of a young child. He has boundless energy, a penchant for playfulness, and an occasional tendency toward tantrums. His affinity for collecting seemingly mundane items, like rocks and pebbles, highlights his whimsical nature and childlike curiosity. Gnar's attachment to his makeshift boomerang reflects his genuine happiness derived from the uncomplicated joys of play.
Gnar possesses a fiery temper. When faced with the arrival of a threat, Gnar's protective instincts and anger emerge, showcasing his loyalty to his newfound friends and a courageous, albeit impulsive, readiness to confront danger. Despite his fierce temper, Gnar's quickness to forgive and his fundamentally nice nature shine through, especially when others reciprocate kindness.
The Missing Link
By Michael Luo , David Slagle
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Nunu , Willump
A Curious Journey (Video)
As our journey comes to an end, Ava races home to save the Bandlewood Festival—but will she make it in time?
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Gnar , Teemo , Yuumi
Discovering the Link
By Unknown Author
Something stirs in one of Valoran's ancient caves...
Short Story
By Michael Luo
Snow falls all morning, blanketing the earth in fresh coats of white. One by one, feathery flakes trickle from the sky, gently at first, and then rapidly in unison. Soon, the howling blizzard muffles all sounds save for a peculiar racket coming from a nearby cave, where a shock of orange and blue bounces up and down, left to right.
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
The Hunter Hunted
By Leslee Sullivant Heintz
The jungle does not forgive blindness. Every broken branch tells a story.
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Equal parts jolly and imposing, Gragas is a massive, rowdy brewmaster on his own quest for the perfect pint of ale. Hailing from parts unknown, he now searches for rare ingredients among the unblemished wastes of the Freljord , trying each recipe as he goes. Often intoxicated and extremely impulsive, he is legendary for the brawls he starts, which often end in all-night parties and widespread property damage. Any appearance from Gragas must surely foreshadow drinking and destruction—in that order.
One night, when he had drained all the kegs and was left wanting, Gragas was struck by a thought rather than the usual barstool: why couldn't he brew himself something that would finally get him truly drunk? It was then that he vowed to create the ultimate ale.
Gragas' quest eventually brought him to the Freljord, where the promise of acquiring the purest arctic water for his recipe led him into uncharted glacial wastes. While lost in an unyielding blizzard, Gragas stumbled upon a great howling abyss. There he found it: a flawless shard of ice unlike anything he had ever seen. Not only did this unmelting shard imbue his lager with incredible properties, but it also had a handy side effect - it kept the mixture chilled at the perfect serving temperature.
Under the spell of his new concoction, Gragas headed for civilization, eager to share the fermented fruits of his labor. As fate would have it, the first gathering to catch Gragas' bleary eyes would shape the future of the Freljord. He blundered into a deteriorating negotiation between two tribes discussing an alliance with Ashe . Though Ashe welcomed a break in the tension, the other warriors bristled at the intrusion and hurled insults at the drunken oaf. True to his nature, Gragas replied with a diplomatic headbutt, setting off a brawl matched only in the legends of the Freljord.
When the fallen from that great melee finally awoke, Ashe proposed a friendly drink as an alternative to fighting. With their tempers doused in suds, the two tribes, formerly on the brink of war, bonded over a common love of Gragas' brew. Although strife was averted and Gragas hailed a hero, he still had not achieved his dream of drunken blissfulness. So once more, he set off to wander the tundra in search of ingredients for Runeterra's perfect pint.
Gragas is an enormous man: tall, muscular, and immensely fat. He has fair skin and orange hair. Though he is severely balding, he has long hair growing from the back and sides of his head. He also has a large beard and mustache, braided and tied off with metal bands. He has various white tattoos of simple, curved symbols on his arms, torso, and head. He also bears numerous scars across his body. He usually wears little more than a tattered loin cloth and is often seen carrying a massive wooden barrel under one arm.
He is known for his rowdiness and ability to start fights in a bar. Despite this, he can be friendly when sharing his ale.
He is very passionate about making the perfect beer, and will get angered and destructive should someone insult his beer or try to pass off fake ingredients to him. Both scenarios will usually result in an explosion of violence and chaos.
Gragas is loosely allied with the Avarosan for unknown reasons. He once blundered into a deteriorating negotiation between two tribes discussing an alliance with Ashe . In his drunken stupor, he set off a brawl. When the participants of the fight finally came back to consciousness, Ashe proposed a friendly drink as an alternative to fighting. With their tempers doused, the two tribes, formerly on the brink of war, bonded over a common love of Gragas' brew.
The Rabble Rouser
By Unknown Author
Starring: Gragas
Short Story
A Well-Earned Tip
By Laura Michet
Up in the mountains that separate Demacia from the Freljord, there aren’t a lot of jobs that pay coin.
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Journey to Thy Golden Mustache!
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Braum , Gragas , Ryze , Varus
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Malcolm Graves is a renowned mercenary, gambler, and thief—a wanted man in every city and empire he has visited. Even though he has an explosive temper, he possesses a sense of criminal honor, often enforced at the business end of his double-barreled shotgun Destiny . In recent years, he has reconciled a troubled partnership with Twisted Fate , and together they have prospered once more in the turmoil of Bilgewater’s criminal underbelly.
Raised in the wharf alleys of Bilgewater , Malcolm Graves quickly learned how to fight and how to steal. He could always find work hauling contraband up from the smugglers’ skiffs that came into the bay each night—with a tidy side-gig as hired muscle for various other unsavory local characters, as they went about their business in the port.
But the alleys were small-time, and he craved more excitement than they could offer. Still little more than a youth, Graves stole a blunderbuss and smuggled himself aboard a ship headed out of Bilgewater to the Shuriman mainland , where he stole, lied, and gambled his way from place to place along the coast.
Across the table of a high-stakes—and highly illegal—card game in Mudtown , Graves met Twisted Fate .
Each immediately saw in the other the same reckless passion for danger and adventure, and together they formed a most lucrative partnership. Between Graves’ raw brawn and Twisted Fate’s brains, they were an unusually effective team from the outset. Their mutual sense of roguish honor grew into genuine trust, and together they stole from the rich, swindled the foolish, handpicked skilled crews for specific jobs, and sold out their rivals whenever they could.
On the southern borderlands of Valoran , they set two renowned noble houses of Noxus at each other’s throats as cover for the rescue of a kidnapped heir. That they pocketed the reward money, only to ransom the vile young man to the highest bidder, should really have come as no surprise to their original employer. In Piltover , they still hold the distinction of being the only thieves ever to crack the supposedly impenetrable Clockwork Vault. Not only did the pair empty the vault of all its treasures, they also tricked the guards into loading the loot onto their hijacked schooner, for a quick getaway through the Sun Gates.
In almost every case, only once they and their accomplices were safely over the horizon were their crimes even discovered—usually along with one of Twisted Fate’s trademark calling cards left where it would be easily found.
During a heist that rapidly turned from complex to completely botched, Graves was taken by the local enforcers, while Twisted Fate merely turned tail and abandoned him.
Thrown into the infamous prison known as the Locker, Graves endured years of torture and solitary confinement, during which time he nursed his bitter anger toward his old partner, and, convinced that Twisted Fate had betrayed him, Graves was determined to have his revenge.
When he finally clawed his way to freedom, with the prison warden’s brand new shotgun slung over his shoulder, Graves began his long-overdue pursuit of Twisted Fate.
In the years after, Twisted Fate continued conning people solo, one-time evading capture by Miss Fortune. She would later hire him by proxy to sneak into Gangplank’s warehouse to steal and return a Crimson-Coil dagger, where he would reunite with Graves, who broke out from The Locker and was tipped off by the Bounty Hunter herself about Twisted Fate presence.
Flamed with rage at his partner's apparent betrayal, Graves started shooting at Tobias in an effort to settle the score with him. With Gangplank's warehouse burning and with the pirate captain's thugs swarming, the resolution of Graves' and Twisted Fate's long-simmering feud threatens to engulf the entire city in flames. Informed by the destruction of his warehouse, Gangplank set off the catch both of the perpetrators of this act.
Both Graves and Twisted Fate tried to flee from the wrath of the Pirate King but with no success. Gangplank tortured them until he tried to publicly execute them in front of the whole city for their misbehavior. Hearing the news of this event, Sarah Fortune's plans set in motion and along with her crew, started to make preparations to blow up Gangplank’s flagship so all Bilgewater could witness the death of their Reaver King.
Graves managed to hide one of Twisted Fate's cards, snatched during their previous fight around the city, from the pirate thugs, and so, Twisted Fate teleports behind Gangplank and punches him, but Graves gets dragged to the bottom of the ocean. Twisted Fate then jumps after him and saves Graves from drowning but almost dies in the process. Graves manages to save Twisted Fate and after they successfully survive the explosion, both men settled their dispute and resolve to pick up their joint hustling.
As Graves had lost his shotgun Destiny, they head to Piltover so he can get a new one. Even though Graves and Twisted Fate are tempted to reconcile their relationship, both know it may take a while for Graves to completely trust Twisted Fate again, still, the latter is happy to have his old friend back.
After running jobs in Piltover and Zaun for a while, they go back to Bilgewater in search of the Abyssal Crown. Along with the story, Twisted Fate actively tries to regain Graves' trust, staying despite the danger and giving the Crown to Graves since the latter still keeps some distance from him.
They end up angering a sea witch in the process. Later on Miss Fortune springs a trap for Twisted Fate and Graves. Despite the latter's success in cornering her, she manages to trap them and hand them to the sea witch in exchange for her quartermaster. In the end, she helps Twisted Fate and Graves escape as well.
Graves is a gruff-looking, broad-shouldered, middle-aged man. He has fair skin, dark brown hair, and brown eyes. He typically wears his hair swept back and his beard in a mustache-and-mutton-chops combo with only his chin shaved, though he has also been seen with a full beard.
He generally wears simple, practical attire, such as a blue shirt and dark brown pants with leather boots and gloves. He wears a number of belts and pouches on his waist, visibly holding shotgun shells. He is also known to wear a blood-red cowl over his shoulders and back.
His signature weapon, Destiny, is an oversized double-barreled shotgun made of black, gold, and brown metal. It houses a glass chamber which glows with orange-yellow energy.
Graves has a free-spirited and hot-tempered personality. His incredibly reckless nature and tendency to commit acts such as stealing and gambling has led to him becoming a wanted criminal in almost every city in existence. More then anything Graves values loyalty and will do good by anyone who does good by him, especially his partner Twisted Fate .
Their partnership started when they recognized a kindred soul in one another across a table during a high-stakes game in Mudtown.
They both shared the same reckless passion for danger and adventure, which is what encouraged them to form their partnership. Graves being the brawn, and T.F. being the brains they were an unusually effective team from the outset. Their mutual sense of roguish honor grew into genuine trust, and together they hustled across Valoran.
They were forced apart when a heist went south, with Graves getting sent to The Locker despite Twisted Fate’s efforts to save him.
Graves endured years of torture and solitary confinement, during which time he nursed his bitter anger toward his old partner, and, convinced T.F. had betrayed him, Graves was determined to have his revenge.
Graves reunited with T.F. again when MIss Fortune set them up, yet they were forced to put aside their differences in order to escape almost certain death in the ongoing conflict between her and Gangplank.
Even though Graves and T.F. were tempted to reconcile their relationship, both knew it may take a while for Graves to completely trust T.F. again, still, the latter was happy to have his old friend back.
Still, since Graves still kept some distance from T.F., in the short story Destiny and Fate, T.F. proactively tries to show Graves that he can trust him again. T.F. had a history of taking off when things got ugly and so, T.F. wanted to stay and retrieve the Abyssal Crown even if it meant risking his life so he could prove to Graves that he wouldn't leave him to pick up the pieces anymore. In the same story, when Graves shows up next to T.F. bleeding, the latter notices and expresses his concern, something that Graves actually appreciated even if he didn't say it out loud.
During the Burning Tides events, T.F. jumps after Graves to save him from drowning despite not knowing how to swim and being terrified of drowning himself.
Graves seems to like messing with T.F., particularly by calling him Tobias instead of Twisted Fate insisting the latter is a stupid name, or by splashing him with salt water just to mess with TF's carefully oiled and perfumed hair. Similarly, T.F. usually comes up with clever replies to annoy Graves. Their petty bickering is seen many times like at the end of Burning Tides' Act 4, Double-double cross, and Destiny and Fate.
After some time, Graves captured Teemo for the bounty on yordles while Twisted Fate refuses because "messing with Yordles brings a whole heap of trouble." He then fought Corki , Lulu and Tristana who came to save Teemo, which ended up in Graves being turned into a frog and the Yordles escaping.
Graves respects Vayne for being the only person among the Sentinels of Light to stand up to him.
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Graves
Mentioned: Gangplank , Twisted Fate
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
By Jared Rosen
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
Short Story • 34 Minute Read
Burning Tides: Act 1
By Alison Hawkes , George Krstic , Anthony Reynolds Lenné , John O'Bryan
The Rat Town slaughter docks; they smell as bad as their name suggests.
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Twisted Fate
Burning Tides: Act 2
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Burning Tides: Act 3
Burning Tides: Epilogue
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Destiny and Fate
Ah, Bilgewater.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Rafen
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Double-Double Cross
Down on the slaughter docks, Miss Fortune springs a trap for wanted criminals Twisted Fate and Graves… but soon finds the tables turned against her.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
One Last Shot
Holed up in an empty bar, bleeding from a dozen wounds and surrounded by armed men who wanted him dead, Malcom Graves had seen better days. He'd seen worse ones, too, so he wasn't worried yet. Graves leaned over the smashed bar and helped himself to a bottle, sighing as he read the label.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
The Boys and Bombolini
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
Truth Bearer, this is why we must retreat to Buhru. We cannot save the paylangi' the Hierophant said. The heavy-set woman grinned, obviously pleased by the prospect of leaving Bilgewater.
Starring: Gangplank , Illaoi
Mentioned: Graves , Miss Fortune , Nagakabouros , Twisted Fate
The Card Master
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Gangplank , Graves
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Lunar Extravaganza (Wild Rift)
The Lunar New Year is here, and it's time to celebrate! Help prepare for the festivities and join in by lighting lanterns and sending (and receiving!) red envelopes in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Extravaganza!
Starring: Aatrox , Graves , Thresh , Zeri , Zyra
Systems Online
In the wake of a ruthless Praetorian threat, an elite team converges to stop them. Prepare to engage—you're just in time.
Starring: Ekko , Fiora , Graves , Lucian , Pantheon
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A former doll transformed and brought to life by magic, Gwen wields the very tools that once created her. She carries the weight of her maker’s love with every step, taking nothing for granted.
At her command is the Hallowed Mist, an ancient and protective magic that has blessed Gwen’s scissors, needles, and sewing thread. So much is new to her, but Gwen remains joyfully determined to fight for the good that survives in a broken world.
Gwen was originally crafted as a doll by a seamstress named Isolde , embodying her desire for adventure and royalty. Isolde loved her doll very much and would spend hours sewing and playing with her. Eventually, Isolde would be courted by Viego , the king of Camavor, and would no longer have time to play with her cherished doll. At first, Gwen could sense that Viego made her creator happy, but their love would sour and become painful. Isolde would fall ill due to an assassin's blade and eventually pass. Viego took Isolde's corpse to the Blessed Isles in hopes of reviving her, but unleashed ruination instead. Without their king, the nation of Camavor would crumble and Gwen would be forgotten for centuries.
Gwen would eventually find herself on the Shadow Isles when Viego was awakened by Gangplank and Thresh . Viego would be defeated by Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , and Yasuo and imprisoned within an amulet. The Ruined King would somehow escape the amulet and resume his search for his queen. The fragments of Isolde's soul scattered across Runeterra and imbued themselves into various fetters, one of them being Gwen. Gwen would be brought to life by the fragment of Isolde's soul and found herself with an oversized pair of scissors, needles, and thread. She would soon be attacked by a swarm of wraiths and remembered the pain associated with Viego, she quickly dispatched the wraiths and knew that they were tied with him. Fascinated by the wonders of life, Gwen would set out to explore the world and stop the pain caused by Viego and the Black Mist.
Gwen was watching children play from afar, while she was protected from the Black Mist. The Black Mist threatens to attack the children's house so Gwen unhesitatingly undoes her Hallowed Mist and begins to purge the specters of the Black Mist to protect the children. Right after the children's mother appears and thanks her, Gwen observes the mother's hands and sees several calluses and wounds. The mother was a seamstress and made dolls for her children to play with, so Gwen felt the affection that Isolde had when creating and sewing her. Gwen then understands that her creator's true magic was love.
Gwen soon found herself at the Sentinels of Light's headquarters where she would meet Lucian , Senna and a Rookie. She aided them in repelling a swarm of wraiths and joined them in stopping Viego's global harrowing. She would travel with the Sentinels across Runeterra, chasing after the other fetters and repelling Viego's attacks. Along the way, the Sentinels would recruit more fighters into their ranks and Gwen would give haircuts and tailor new uniforms for Diana , Graves , Irelia , Olaf , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , and Vayne . When Viego obtained most of the fetters, the Sentinels launched one last assault against him on the Shadow Isles. Gwen attempted to bind him within the Hallowed Mist, but Viego quickly dispatched her with a stroke of his blade. He took her, Senna and the Maiden of the Mist to Camavor to resurrect Isolde. Viego tore the fragment of Isolde's soul within Gwen, killing her and the other fetters, and revived his queen. Isolde was horrified at what Viego had done and rejected him. She prompted Akshan to kill her with his Absolver and revived Gwen, Senna and the Maiden. Gwen then was able to seal him within the Hallowed Mist and the threat of the Ruined King was over. Gwen reckoned with Senna about Isolde being truly gone now, but was ready to live her life to the fullest.
After some time, Gwen continued to clear the black mist on the Shadow Isles . As she made her way through the Black Mist , she found an opulent mansion in the shadowy woods. As she investigated, Gwen discovered that it was home to the Midnight Revel, a grand ball hosted by friendly spirits, whom invited her in as their guest of honor. She attended the party, protecting it from the Black Mist and dancing the night away.
Gwen has the appearance of a pale young woman of medium stature. Her hair is blue and curled up in two long ringlets that are decorated with dark blue ribbons. On her neck and arms she has magical blue marks resembling the stitches of a doll in the same way when she was a normal doll. Her eyes have cross shaped pupils, resembling buttons, with the one on the left being blue and the one on the right being pink.
Gwen typically dresses In a white dress with a black rim and blue chest, decorated with golden details.
Gwen is a doll given life by the Hallowed Mist and a fragment of Isolde's soul, representing her kindness, love and joy, granting her self awareness and a independent personality.
Having being created as an idealized character by Isolde as a little girl, Gwen has the personality of a idealized princess of fairy tales, highly polite and graceful. She's kind, friendly, and excitable, eager to see the world, curious and in love of everything in it. Having been alive for only a short time, she is terrified of dying.
Although generally friendly and genuine in her niceness, Gwen is not unaware of the darkness of the world. She dutifully fights the evils of the Black Mist to protect the world she was born in, and she has nothing but contempt for the Shadow Isles 's most malevolent members, such as Thresh and Viego .
Gwen was created by Isolde , Viego's wife. After being brought to life, Gwen uses Isolde's tools. Gwen also contains a fragment of Isolde's soul, like Senna .
Gwen travels across Runeterra to fight Viego and the Mist as well as to help people in need.
During the events of Rise of the Sentinels , Gwen accompanied the Sentinels of Light in the fight against the Black Mist and Viego. She worked as the team' hair stylist and tailor.
Gwen and the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). seem to have memories of and feelings for each other, both say they've seen each other before but don't remember exactly when. Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). is likely a reference to Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). ; a perfect version of the imperfect man she once knew.
The Hallowed Seamstress
By Michael Luo
Starring: Gwen
Mentioned: Isolde , Viego
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Made with Love
Once upon a time, a seamstress made a darling little doll. This doll loved her maker very much, but sadly, tragedy ripped them apart, sending the doll to sink beneath sea and sorrow. Centuries passed, but the doll was not deterred, for she knew love would find her again.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
The Stranger Who Sews
Under the setting sun, hidden behind a dense thicket, a young lady stands with large black bows in her silvery blue hair, complimented by golden ornaments and an elegantly tailored dress.
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Boys and Bombolini
By Jared Rosen
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Choncc Dome
By Ty Sheedlo , Taylor Dinwiddie , Isa Mari De Leon , Elyse Lemoine
Just because the Tournament of Souls is all about 1v1 combat doesn't mean you have to train alone! That's why Choncc has gathered some of the greatest Soul Fighters under one roof—er… dome. So choose a champ and start gettin' swole , Choncc-style!
Starring: Gwen , Lux , Samira , Sett
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Lunar Feast
Mythmaking is hungry work. Thankfully, you and your elite team of chefs are ready to cook up a storm in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Feast!
Starring: Caitlyn , Camille , Gwen , Seraphine , Zoe
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Music Video
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Hecarim is a spectral fusion of man and beast, cursed to ride down the souls of the living for all eternity. When the Blessed Isles fell into shadow , this proud knight was undone by the destructive energies of the Ruination of Helia , along with all his cavalry and their mounts. Now, whenever The Black Mist reaches out across Runeterra , he leads its devastating charge, reveling in the slaughter and crushing foes beneath his armored hooves.
In life, Hecarim had been a lieutenant of the Iron Order, charged with protecting the lands owned by King Viego of Camavor . Due to his many victories in battle, the Knight-Commander of the Order had considered Hecarim as a potential candidate to succeed him and lead the Order some day, but when the Commander realized Hecarim's growing darkness and lust for personal glory, he concluded that Hecarim should never lead the Order. On being told of this decision by the Commander, Hecarim was furious, but returned to his duties with the Order.
During the Order's next battle, Hecarim found the Commander surrounded by enemies and cut off from reinforcements. Hecarim chose to turn away and leave his commander to die. After the battle, the Iron Order swore allegiance to Hecarim, unaware of his involvement in their fallen commander's death.
On his way to be officially sworn in as the new Knight-Commander of the Iron Order, Hecarim met General Kalista . The General was on a desperate mission to find a cure for the Queen, who had been poisoned by an assassin. The King, overcome by paranoia and seeing traitors everywhere, sent the Iron Order and its new Commander to quell all dissent within Camavor. The Order put hundreds to death and burned entire towns. Eventually, the Queen died, presenting a new opportunity for Hecarim to advance his brutal reputation. He proposed that the King should deploy the Order to attack Camavor's foreign enemies to avenge the murdered Queen.
The King agreed, but while the Order was preparing to ride against the kingdom's enemies, General Kalista returned, having found the antidote to the poison on the Blessed Isles . Furious that his general had come too late to save his wife, the King had Kalista thrown in a cell. Hecarim, curious about her journey, went to visit the general. He learned of the Blessed Isles, concealed by thick, white mist and home to incredible riches — including the Waters of Life, which may yet be able to heal the Queen.
Hecarim convinced the King to release Kalista so she could lead a fleet back to the Blessed Isles, as she was the only one who could find the way. Soon, Kalista, Hecarim, the Iron Order, and King Viego himself all landed at the Blessed Isles' city of Helia , along with the body of the dead Queen. The expedition marched toward the city, but were was stopped by the city's leaders, who refused to help. At this, the King ordered Kalista to kill the leaders of Helia. When Kalista refused, Hecarim seized yet another opportunity. He stabbed the general through the back with spear and gave the command for the Order to pillage and plunder the city.
In the ensuing havoc, a common custodian agree to give access to the Waters, but Hecarim was too consumed by greed and bloodlust to listen. During the continued ransacking of Helia, an enormous magical shockwave exploded across the city, destroying every building. After the explosion subsided, a whirling storm of The Black Mist tore through the ruined city, engulfing all in its path. Hecarim called for a retreat, but it was too late. Every member of the Iron Order was consumed by the Mist, ending with Hecarim himself. When the Mist took him, it permanently merged Hecarim with his warhorse. He is. now an Undead monster; a living engine of wrath. He is damned to endlessly patrol the now-renamed Shadow Isles , unable to leave except during an event known as a Harrowing , when the Black Mist rolls out to find new souls to join the army of Undead.
Hecarim is an armored centaur-like wraith with a humanoid upper half and an equine lower half, as a result of him fusing with his horse after transforming into a wraith. His body is composed of metallic armor, connected by a glowing spectral body with visible hooves and tail. His head is a samurai-like helmet with an axe-like crest and skull-like teeth on its mouth. His chestplate and horse armor have skull-like faces adorning them, and has a tattered banner beneath the horse's chest. He is often seen wielding his glaive.
As mentioned when touched by Nagakaboros' powers, Hecarim's appearance as a human was described as being tall and handsome, with silver and gold armor and having dark eyes.
Hecarim is a merciless, bloodthirsty warrior who enjoys raiding cities and killing their inhabitants, mainly to gain a reputation of being feared or simply pure sadism, shown when he was so caught up with slaughtering the Helians that the Ruination took him by surprise. He is obsessed with glory and has no problem with killing his own allies to further climb up the ranks. Hecarim can also be cunning and manipulative to get what he wants, pushing Viego's grief into becoming more unhinged so he could raid enemy settlements on his command, and persuading Kalista to reveal the Blessed Isles for him. After becoming a wraith, he now seeks to kill every mortal being he comes across with the Iron Order by his side.
Hecarim is a member of the Iron Order which vowed to protect the king's land, but he does not respect Viego and only follows him as he allows to pillage lands.
Hecarim is being hunted by Kalista for his betrayal and for helping unleash the Ruination of the Blessed Isles, thus turning them into the Shadow Isles and its denizens into Undead abominations.
Hecarim faced Miss Fortune and Illaoi during one of the Black Mist's attack on Bilgewater but was driven back when Illaoi channeled her god's power.
The Shadow of War
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Isolde , Kalista , Thresh , Viego
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
No One Lives
Icy waves crashed on the bleak shore, red with the blood of the men Hecarim had already butchered. The mortals he had yet to kill were retreating over the beach in terror. Black rain doused them and stormclouds boiled in from the mourning heart of the island. He heard them shouting to one another. The words were a guttural battle-cant he did not recognize, but the meaning was clear; they actually thought they might live to reach their ship. True, they had some skill. They moved as one, wooden shields interlocked. But they were mortal and Hecarim savored the meat-stink of their fear.
Mentioned: Thresh , Viego
RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey (Wild Rift)
Kalista drives fear and spears into the hearts of all who oppose her, but she wasn't always as a wraith of the Shadow Isles. Come learn her tragic story in League of Legends: Wild Rift special RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey event.
Starring: Hecarim , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Jenda'kaya , Necrit , Soraka , Tyrus , Vennix
Short Story
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Tales of the Black Mist
A ghastly puppet show recounts a tale familiar in Bilgewater, but tonight the fog's come down especially thick…
The Despoiler of Havenfall
By Michael Haugen Wieske
The fog had come in swiftly, eclipsing the afternoon sun over the crossroads.
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Kayle , Viego
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
The Echoes Left Behind
Blood pooled beneath him, bright crimson against pristine white stone. His sword lay nearby, its blade broken. His killers stood around him, shadows on the periphery, but he saw nothing except her.
Starring: Kalista , Ledros , Thresh
Mentioned: Hecarim , Ryze , Viego
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
The Spear of Vengeance
Starring: Kalista
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Viego
With Hell Before Them
By Jared Rosen
June 7th, 1868
Starring: Ashe , Darius , Hecarim
Mentioned: Lucian , Thresh
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
First light after the Harrowing
Though the Black Mist fades and the souls it claimed will soon forget their past, the threat of the fell tide will not be forgotten. Worse than all previous years, those who lived are left to wonder where it will return, and whether anyone will survive when it does.
Mentioned: Gangplank , Hecarim , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Nautilus
The Spirit of Copperwood Glade
It is common in these dark days to speak of the Elderwood with some deference, as both the young and old know it as a place of great danger, filled with tricks and traps laid by the last true children of the wilds.
Starring: Nocturne
Mentioned: Hecarim
Music Video
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A brilliant yet eccentric yordle scientist, Professor Cecil B. Heimerdinger is one of the most innovative and esteemed inventors Piltover has ever known. Relentless in his work to the point of neurotic obsession, he thrives on answering the universe's most impenetrable questions. Though his theories often appear opaque and esoteric, Heimerdinger has crafted some of Piltover's most miraculous—not to mention lethal—machinery, and constantly tinkers with his inventions to make them even more efficient.
Heimerdinger is a skinny light skinned Yordle . His most prominent feature is his lush blond hair on his head (alternating between curly and straight), blue eyes, as well as his white mustache. He wears typical laboratory dark grey coat, gloves, as well as goggles that protect him during dangerous experimentation.
Eventually he would incorporate his D.I.N.G.R. machine, an extended third arm that is strapped on top of his head.
Heimerdinger is seen as a role model by Ziggs and as a sellout by Rumble . Ziggs used to work for him before the events of Paint the Town .
Consequently, he knows Jinx , who has stolen and used some of his experiments as "target practice". [ 1 ]
Piltover recognizes Heimerdinger's contributions to technological advancement and techmaturgical (thaumaturgical and technological) research.
The Revered Inventor
By Unknown Author
Starring: Heimerdinger
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
From The Journal Of Professor Cecil B. Heimerdinger
Mentioned: Rumble
Paint the Town
By Anthony Burch , Fabio Moon , Dave Stewart
Oh, they say I'm crazy -- they say that Yordles would be easy to spot in a city such as ours, what with their fuzzy countenances and diminutive stature. But I've heard rumors that they have invented some sort of magical charms that make these abominations appear no different from you or I. But don't be fooled! No matter how adorable they may seem, these mischievous creatures will bring our city of Piltover to ruin! If I were so moved, I'd say they're an even bigger threat than those lunatic terrorists from Zaun! But I'm getting ahead of myself. Our story starts in a small pyrotechnics shop in Piltover, run by two unnervingly fuzzy gentlemen...
Starring: Heimerdinger , Jinx , Ziggs
True Genius
When Heimerdinger's latest hextech creation is stolen by Jinx, the professor sends an unfortunate apprentice on a wild goose chase through the City of Progress… and beneath it.
Starring: Ekko , Heimerdinger , Jinx
Short Story
Bombs: A Tribute
By Abigail Harvey
Okay, Zaun. I’m here, I’m fuzzy, and I’m ready to explode stuff.
Starring: Ziggs
Mentioned: Heimerdinger , Jinx
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
The Whispering Doodad
By Graham McNeill
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Hextech Mayhem
By Choice Provisions
THIS’LL BE A BLAST!
Starring: Heimerdinger , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Hwei is a brooding painter who creates brilliant art in order to confront Ionia's criminals and comfort their victims. Beneath his melancholy roils a torn, emotional mind— haunted by both the vibrant visions of his imagination and the gruesome memories of his temple's massacre. Hwei seeks to understand this light and dark, which drives him inevitably toward the artist who unraveled him. With paintbrush and palette, Hwei shapes endless possibilities as he draws ever closer to earning closure or embracing despair.
Born into a legacy, Hwei was destined to inherit the Temple of Koyehn . He spent his childhood immersed in the vibrant surroundings, translating his wild daydreams onto canvas. From a young age, it was evident that his visions were not mere reflections of reality; instead, they were fantastical interpretations that turned life itself into art.
Hwei's unique connection with the world manifested not only in his paintings but also in the shifting hues of his eyes, mirroring the ebb and flow of his mind and mood. The temple's art form, paint magic, became Hwei's chosen medium, a medium that influenced the emotions of its audience. However, strict control and discipline were necessary to prevent the art from overpowering mental perceptions and bodily sensations, as those who failed to control it were banished from Koyehn.
Despite the strict precepts, Hwei, driven by an insatiable curiosity and a desire to explore the depths of his power, indulged his imagination. In a pivotal moment, during a demonstration for the temple masters, Hwei's control wavered as he painted Koyehn's sea. Emotions crashed over him, and he surrendered to the beauty of his creation. This awakening infuriated the temple masters who, while unwilling to exile the heir, stressed the weight of his responsibilities. Hwei, haunted yet fascinated by the depths of his power, continued to push the boundaries in secret at night.
The tranquil existence of Koyehn was disrupted when Khada Jhin visited the temple. A bond formed between Hwei and Jhin, as they exchanged creative perspectives. However, the night before Jhin departed, he challenged Hwei, sensing the façade in the pieces he presented to the world. Reluctantly, Hwei unleashed his true art, revealing decades of suppressed emotions and imagination. Jhin, witnessing the forbidden visions, departed with an ominous farewell, stating he would move on tomorrow "to watch the lotuses bloom."
At dawn, Hwei awoke to a series of tragedies. Four historic paintings lay destroyed, the four masters who berated Hwei in his youth lay dead, and the temple itself erupted in flames. In the chaos, Hwei recognized the dark potential of his art for destruction and torment, realizing the horror and fascination that had gripped him in his youth.
As the temple collapsed into ruins, Hwei emerged as the sole survivor, haunted by guilt and the overwhelming power of his own imagination. By day, he mourned with the villagers, but by night, he revisited the wreckage, using his paintbrush and palette to create scenes that captured the essence of Koyehn's crest—the same crest worn over his heart.
Discovering a lotus-shaped trap amid the rubble, Hwei pieced together the perpetrator was none other than the artist he grew so close to. The thought unleashed a cascade of emotions—fear, sorrow, betrayal, and awe. Faced with a choice between staying with his people or pursuing the answers to the tragedy, Hwei, bearing only his paintbrush and palette, left Koyehn behind.
In the time since, Hwei has embarked on a journey of self-discovery and redemption. He seeks answers by revealing the full extent of his art, tracking down nefarious individuals in the darkest corners of Ionia . As he spirals deeper into the shadows, Hwei lights a path, his mind brimming with possibility.
Hwei is a slender man with pale olive skin and wavy, dark teal hair, usually parted to the left. His eyes change color based on his mood. [ 2 ] He wears a shade of dark aqua eyeshadow. [ 3 ] He tends to wear simple, comfortable clothes, such as calf-length pants, a loose-fitting tunic, and slip-on shoes. This outfit contrasts dark, muted tones of teal with splashes of bright orange. At least his right ear is pierced in two places (his left ear is obscured by his hair). He is often seen carrying a massive paintbrush, comparable in size to a staff, and with a trail of paints levitating behind him.
Hwei is in conflict with his own duality. Beneath his kind and compassionate nature lies an insatiable curiosity, driving an imagination that blurs reality and fantasy. The internal conflict within him, torn between the light of redemption and the shadows of guilt, shapes his interactions. Hwei's emotional palette, unpredictable and intense, defines not only his art but also the complex relationships he navigates. In his journey through Ionia's darkest corners, he seeks answers and redemption, wielding his magical paintbrush to bring solace and reflection to others and himself.
Hwei's encounter with Khada Jhin was a pivotal turning point in his life. During Jhin's visit to Koyehn, the two exchanged creative perspectives, with Hwei guiding Jhin through the beauty of his home. There was a mutual respect for their differences, as Hwei recognized Jhin's virtuosity. However, the night before Jhin's departure, the dynamic shifted. Jhin, sensing the façade in Hwei's presented art, challenged him to reveal a genuine performance. Reluctantly, Hwei unleashed the true power of his art, revealing decades of suppressed emotions. Jhin, witnessing the forbidden visions, left with an inscrutable farewell. The consequences of that night echoed through Koyehn, leaving Hwei to grapple with the aftermath of tragedy. The encounter with Jhin left an indelible mark on Hwei's path, influencing the conflicting hues within him.
The Visionary
By Isa Mari De Leon
Starring: Hwei
Mentioned: Jhin
Hwei: The Visionary (Video)
He who drowns in colors will leave others breathless — for better or worse.
Short Story
Paintings Framed in Half-Light
Visions pour in.
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Illaoi's powerful physique is dwarfed only by her indomitable faith. As the prophet of the Great Kraken, she uses a huge, golden idol to rip her foes' spirits from their bodies and shatter their perception of reality . All who challenge the 'Truth Bearer of Nagakabouros' soon discover Illaoi never battles alone - the god of the Serpent Isles fights by her side.
Illaoi was born into the Buhru tribe of the Serpent Islands in Bilgewater, at a very young age she was trained into the priesthood and displayed incredibly high spiritual talent.
Illaoi at some point in her youth met Gangplank and fell in love with him, having a long romance, however Illaoi ended up being chosen as the Truth Bearer of Nagakabouros and was therefore forced to end the relationship.
After her break with Gangplank, Illaoi devoted herself entirely to spreading the faith of Nagakabouros among the Buhru tribe and ensuring the protection of the Serpent Islands.
After Gangplank was defeated at the hands of Miss Fortune, Illaoi rescued him from drowning in the sea, she also kept him with her in the serpent islands where she took care of him and helped him recover.
Illaoi received a mission from Nagakabouros which was to hunt down the so-called Red Dock Ripper, she along with a group of Buhru warriors left the Serpent Islands and went to Bilgewater.
Illaoi is a tall, stocky woman with dark skin with fluorescent green tattoos all over her body, long brown hair tied in a ponytail, and piercing green eyes.
She wears a dark green shirt and brown pants with some gold trim on her neck and arms, grayish black boots, and always carries a golden sphere.
She was known for her indomitable faith, and is above good and evil and will encourage those not to kneel but to fight. She worships Nagakabouros , a spirit goddess, who in turn gave her title of "Truth Bearer of Nagakabourous".
Illaoi was Gangplank's first love. Gangplank , but they went their separate ways over a decade ago. Their past relationship is implied by her liking mangos and him oranges . Illaoi still has some feelings for him.She chose to save Gangplank after his ship was sunk by Miss Fortune and gave him a spirit test which he passed. She then decided to help him retake the city.
Illaoi protected Miss Fortune and many others from an attack of the Black Mist, during which she drove off Hecarim with the power of her god.
Illaoi suspects Miss Fortune needs to be tested by her god soon. This test is briefly shown in The Climb .
Illaoi abhors the undead of the Shadow Isles and the Black Mist itself as both embody the very stagnation she seeks to eradicate. This can be illustrated when she tells Sion he was 'cheated of rebirth' (his soul has been trapped and unable to reincarnate as new life). [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
The undead would fail their test instantly. [ 3 ] She would want to end Mordekaiser the most for being the de facto puppeteer of others' souls. [ 4 ]
Illaoi's dialogue with Braum implies that she finds Braum physically attractive. Over the course of the adventure, Braum and Illaoi develop a friendship. Illaoi would invite Braum to be more intimate and while he isn't averse to her advances, he declines because it is an inopportune time due to him needing to focus on the upcoming battles.
Illaoi's voice lines imply if she were to ever test Braum, he would pass the test very easily as he is doing exactly what Illaoi preaches: living his life as he sees fit. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ]
Because Pyke is a murderous undead, Illaoi initially saw him as a threat against the beliefs of Nagakabourous. However, after testing his spirit, she now believes him to be serving a much larger eddy and therefore staying in motion. [ 8 ] She had casted a spell that made Pyke more benevolent and tamed as a result of Nagakabouros' influence, but he may eventually return back to his murderous state.
Illaoi views 'spirits' ( Anivia , Bard , Kindred , Yordles , etc.) as a useless distraction from the truth. [ 9 ] Tahm Kench would avoid her as he probably knows he would perish if Nagakabouros tested him. [ 10 ]
The Kraken Priestess
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Illaoi
Mentioned: Gangplank , Nagakabouros
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
By Graham McNeill
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
Truth Bearer, this is why we must retreat to Buhru. We cannot save the paylangi' the Hierophant said. The heavy-set woman grinned, obviously pleased by the prospect of leaving Bilgewater.
Starring: Gangplank , Illaoi
Mentioned: Graves , Miss Fortune , Nagakabouros , Twisted Fate
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Short Story
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Trial of the Kraken Priestess
There can be no rest. We are the motion.
Dead in the Water
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Ezreal's Field Notes
By Matthew Dunn
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Fight for Final City
When Anima Squad stands together, the Primordians don’t stand a chance.
Starring: Aatrox , Briar , Illaoi , Seraphine , Yasuo
Resistance Illaoi
By Jared Rosen
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The Noxian occupation of Ionia produced many heroes, none more unlikely than young Irelia of Navori . Trained in the ancient dances of her province, she adapted her art for war, using the graceful and carefully practised movements to levitate a host of deadly blades. After proving herself as a fighter, she was thrust into the role of resistance leader and figurehead, and to this day remains dedicated to the preservation of her homeland.
When she was young, she was fascinated by the grace and beauty of human movement. Under her grandmother’s tutelage, she learned the traditional silk dances of her province—though she was dubious of their supposedly mystical connection to the Spirit of Ionia, Irelia’s love for the dances was real. Seeking to master the art, she eventually left home to study with some of Ionia’s most respected performers at the Placidium of Navori.
Irelia’s people were peaceful and sought harmony with their neighbors, but rumors of foreign invaders sighted off the coast unsettled many at the Placidium. Irelia returned to her village to find it already occupied, with steel-helmed soldiers from distant Noxus shoving unarmed civilians through the streets with the butts of their spears. The Noxian Admiral Duqal had seized the Xan home to quarter his fleet officers.
Irelia’s brothers and her father Lito had evidently protested; her entire family now lay in unmarked graves, in the gardens.
Ravaged by grief, the young girl saw Duqal’s men hauling valuables from the house. Among the loot was a large metal crest, depicting the Xan family emblem. Irelia raced to it, wrenching it from Noxian hands. The admiral himself hurled her to the ground, and had his warriors shatter the crest with a heavy iron maul, before ordering them to dig a fresh grave for this upstart child.
As they surrounded her, Irelia averted her eyes, looking to the pieces of the Xan crest scattered on the ground. From deep within her soul, she felt a strange rhythm begin to beat. The shards of metal began to twitch, to twist, moving seemingly on their own, and Irelia felt the serene joy of the ancient dances once more...
With a sweep of her arm, she sent the pieces flying like ragged blades, cutting clean through two of the Noxians. As Duqal and his officers reeled in shock, Irelia snatched up the shards of her crest, and fled the village.
In the quiet forests beyond, Irelia mourned her family, and thought back to her grandmother’s teachings. She realized that the techniques she had learned were more than mere dances—they were a powerful expression of something far greater.
The Noxian occupation soon began to test the fragile peace of the First Lands. It was said that even the religious leader Karma had been forced to strike back at the invaders with deadly magic, though her followers had now withdrawn to the Lasting Altar and would not condone any further violence. Across Navori, dissenting voices began to band together. A resistance was forming, one that would not rest until Ionia was free once more. Irelia joined their ranks, performing her cherished dances for them in the woodland camps, to preserve some vestige of their vanishing culture.
She was barely fourteen years old when she found herself back at the Placidium. Her band of resistance fighters joined the militia who had sworn to guard the monasteries and wild, sacred gardens.
But Noxus knew only too well what this place represented. A particularly cunning general named Jericho Swain captured the Placidium and took its defenders hostage, hoping to lure the inevitable reinforcements into a trap.
It was in this moment that Irelia rose to meet her destiny. Freed from her bonds, she unleashed the full potential of her ancient blade dance, lashing out with graceful zeal. A dozen of Swain’s veterans fell, sowing chaos in their ranks as the other captives joined her, before she struck down the general himself—the sight of this rebellious girl hefting his severed arm over her head would be the turning point of the war.
This victory, the Great Stand at Navori, ensured that everyone in Ionia knew the name of Xan Irelia, and looked to her for leadership. Reluctantly, she led the growing resistance for almost three years of grueling battle before her triumph at Dalu Bay. There, she finally cornered the defeated Admiral Duqal, and exacted the vengeance she had sought for so long.
Though the war has long since ended, Ionia has been permanently changed by it. The First Lands are now divided, with rival factions fighting each other almost as bitterly as they did the Noxians. Many continue to look to Irelia for answers but, while others might welcome such power, Irelia remains uneasy with it.
At heart, she still yearns only to dance alone.
When the sentinels arrived in Ionia they found Irelia, she was reluctant with the strangers and appeared willing to face them, especially after seeing Riven among them.
Irelia is a slender, pale-skinned woman with long dark hair with subtle blue-violet highlightsup to the hips and bright blue eyes. Her robes are a mix of elegant robes and battle attire with a distinctive palette of red, pink, black and silver. The most characteristic ornaments of her attire are the silver diadem on her head. She also has several Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). that float around it.
Irelia is a passionate, protective and very fond of dance individual who dedicates herself to the protection of Ionia. She believes that brute force is needed to properly defend Ionia from the likes of Noxus, hence why she considers alliances with Zed and his shadow assassins due to their similar beliefs. She also demonstrates a kind and caring persona to those close to her, such as the Blossoming Blade, whom she has a soft spot for.
Despite her uptight and serious demeanour, however, Irelia also displays a level of sarcasm at her opponents, evidenced by her comments on Garen's fighting technique and his habit of yelling his country's name in battle.
Irelia cut off Swain's arm which resulted in him contacting and taming a demon of secrets named Raum and then become the Grand General of Noxus, for such reason he is somewhat grateful for her action.
Irelia was heavily antagonistic towards Riven , due to her past actions during the Noxian Invasion, but grew to respect her during their time together as Sentinels of Light.
Sona's in-game voice lines suggest she and Irelia met at some point when she returned to Ionia.
The Ionian resistance led by Irelia in the war was later sprung into different groups with different ideologies, including the Navori Brotherhood and the Navovi Militia. The Brotherhood in particular became more aggressive when she wasn't the hardcore leader they needed and has tried to kill her multiple times. [ 1 ]
Irelia dislikes those with more pacifist attitude like Karma and Ivern or those who do not protect their homeland like the Kinkou Order since in her belief it would only lead to the fall of Ionia. She may also be willing to side with Ionian extremists like Zed , his order and even the Navori Brotherhood if necessary despite not approving their method. [ 2 ]
As told in Legends of Runeterra , her resistance force include peasants of Ionia, musicians and dancers. Among those, Irelia appears to have the most intimate relationship with Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
The Blade Dancer
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Irelia
Mentioned: Karma , Swain
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Rise of the Sentinels
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Stains on a Name
I believed in you, Blade Dancer!' the man choked, his lips frothing red. 'You showed us the path…'
Mentioned: Karma
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
By Ian St. Martin
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
The Defiant Blade
A decade after the Battle of the Placidium, Ionia honors the young woman who inspired a revolution.
Mentioned: Riven
Guardians of the Ancient (Video)
Runeterra is in turmoil! Noxian warships set sail for Ionia’s shores. But all is not lost. Heroes will rise. Fates will change.
Starring: Zilean
Mentioned: Farron , Irelia , Malphite
The Noxian Grand General
By David Slagle
Starring: Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , LeBlanc
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
The Principles of Strength
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
My name is Alyssa Roshka Gloriana val-Lokan. For almost two millennia, my ancestors ruled the Delverhold as kings.
Starring: Darius , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , Kindred
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Destroy your doubt, face the future.
Starring: Irelia , Karma , Lissandra
The Blade Dancer: Issue 1
Starring: Irelia , Karma
The Blade Dancer: Issue 2
Mentioned: Kindred
The Blade Dancer: Issue 3
Mentioned: Swain
The Blade Dancer: Issue 4
Mentioned: Soraka
The Blade-Dancing Immortal
Starring: Irelia , Talon
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Short Story
By Riot Paradox
Starring: Evelynn , Trundle , Twitch , Volibear
Mentioned: Irelia
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Ivern , known to many as Bramblefoot or the Old Woodsman, is a peculiar half-man, half-tree who roams the wilds of Runeterra , cultivating life everywhere he goes. He knows all the secrets of the natural world, and holds deep friendships with things that grow, fly, and scuttle. Ivern enriches the forests, imparts strange wisdom to any mortal he meets, and occasionally entrusts loose-lipped butterflies with his secrets.
Ivern the Cruel was a renowned warlord of ancient Vorrijaard , following the ways of the warlike old gods , including the Volibear , in spite of the new Three Sisters . Though the armies of the Three Sisters was enhanced by dark magic and could not be beaten by any normal means. Ivern and his clan plotted on how best to take down the Iceborn , eventually they settled on sailing east, towards where all magic flows from, to harvest said magic for himself. Unbeknownst to them, once they had set sail, they would never be seen in Vorrijaard again.
As Ivern and his tribe landed on Ionia and conquered their way through a dozen coastal settlements, they discovered a sacred grove, Omikayalan or "the Heart of the World". Ivern was attacked by many Vastayans , trying to drive away Ivern and his tribe from their sacred grove, but Ivern continued, slaying anyone who stood in his way. This continued until finally he had arrived at the legendary God-Willow , a colossal tree with gossamer leaves, shimmering of gold. He realised this had to be what the Vastaya were trying to protect so he took up his axe and struck down the God-Willow. As the tree fell, Ivern the Cruel disapeared with it.
Ivern saw bursts of life from the death and destruction he had caused, and he found it oddly beautiful. As he reflected on himself, he noticed his body had changed; he was taller and with longer limbs, rough with bark and leaves. Suddenly he started hearing the very land around him crying and Ivern felt a sudden rush of remorse and sadness over what he had done. As Ivern cried out in sadness, he noticed that somehow, a unfathomable long time had passed, the world felt new and the sadness and violence he once felt as Ivern the Cruel had disapeared. Ivern was a completely different person now, one who enjoyed communicating with the various flora and fauna, rivers and dirt, developing close friendships with the forest creatures and offering a helping hand where he could. He realized that he now bore the God-Willow's legacy, to cultivate and help humanity grow into something beautiful.
Ivern is a thin being, as tall as a tree. Iverns entire body is made out of living wood, with his legs thinning out into roots. His head is made of a pale wood with various moss and mushrooms growing from it. His head spirals outwards into two large portrusions, giving the appearance of two great horns, almost resembling an old Freljordian helmet, a remnant from his former life. From his head, leaves grow in places where his hair would normaly be, giving him a lush beard, pair of eyebrows and a mane of hair behind his horns. On his right arm is a woven gauntlet with various moss and mushrooms growing from it. In his horns, across his roots and in his left arm, rings of gold still remain.
Ivern the Cruel was a fierce and ruthless warrior, following the traditions of the warlike old gods of the Freljord. Ivern the Green Father, however, is cheerful and whimsical in contrast. Deeply attuned to nature, he may appear strange and eccentric to humans. He is curious and benevolent, nurturing the growth of the natural world wherever he can find it. Those who seek to harm the denizens of the forest, however, will find that Ivern's magic can harm as well as help.
The Green Father
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Daisy , Ivern
Mentioned: Lissandra
Friend of the Forest
From the cuddliest of creatures to the fiercest of beasts, all life is precious.'
Starring: Ivern
Short Story • 9 Minute Read
Gift of Venom
For most people, a hundred years is a very long time. In a century, one could explore the entire world, meet thousands of people, or complete countless works of art. Now, anyone could easily assume that standing in one spot for over a century would be a colossal waste. But during that time, Ivern Bramblefoot accomplished more than any could dream.
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Bashful Bloom
By David Slagle
Starring: Lillia
Mentioned: Ivern
Answer To Her Light
By Unknown Author
The omens are clear: The coven has reassembled in the name of the old gods. Eclipse Leona is ready to meet them.
Starring: Ivern , Leona
Mentioned: Camille , Lissandra
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Sharp: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
An ancient and mysterious wind spirit, Janna has come to protect the dispossessed of Zaun . While her presence is most often felt as a soothing breeze or a ferocious tempest, she also can manifest in corporeal form as an ethereal figure, comforting the downtrodden. Over the eons, Janna has witnessed the rise and fall of civilizations. Through it all, she remains steadfast as a beacon of hope to those in need.
Most of what is known about Janna is known through secondhand accounts and stories. Since ancient times, there were those who prayed to the winds. Some said that the winds would even answer sometimes. Seafarers said that they would spot a bright blue bird just before heavy winds, and others would say that they'd heard a whistling in the air right before a storm, as if to warn them of its approach. These stories spread and gained reverence among people all across Runeterra , with some saying that they had seen a bright blue bird transform into a woman with tapered ears and flowing hair. This mysterious figure was said to float above the water and direct the wind with a flick of her staff.
Those that believed in these tales called this wind spirit "Jan'ahrem", an ancient Shuriman word meaning “guardian,” as she always seemed to appear in times of great need. As time went on, she became known more simply as Janna.
These tales spread across the Shuriman continent, with Janna's most faithful believers residing in what is now known as Zaun , as they needed calm seas for their city's port. These people made statues and shrines and regularly prayed to Janna, asking for calm seas and favorable winds. Despite decrees suppressing worship of false idols, Janna's devotees remained faithful, wearing amulets with the image of a blue bird in reverence for her.
After the fall of the Shuriman empire, what was now the Shuriman deserts became enveloped in war. Despite this, Zaun remained untouched, as Janna shielded it from the turmoil.
Over time, less and less people in Zaun prayed to Janna, instead becoming preoccupied with machines and advancing technology. However, one day, entire districts collapsed below sea level, and thousands had to fight for their lives against the currents of the River Pilt. This reignited faith in Janna, as the victims prayed to her for salvation and survival. Despite being forgotten for all this time, Janna helped the people. She used her wind magic not only to stop the water of the river from destroying homes so that people could evacuate, but also to quell smoke coming from fires so that people could see and breath better as they ran. While many died, those that survived saw what Janna did, and a belief and faithfulness to Janna was reignited within the Zaunite people, with her faithful once again wearing amulets reminiscent of blue birds and praying to her frequently.
A Zaunite orphan prays to Janna. While he prays, he reflects on his life, including how difficult being a Zaunite is and how he is discriminated against because of his origins in the city. After an outburst of sadness, Janna appears behind the boy. She calms and hugs him, saying that it will be okay in the end. After comforting the boy, Janna throws a windy tornado on a piltovan citizen who had humiliated the boy, and this managed to get a smile from the little orphan.
While caring for the needy of Zaun , Janna met Nilah and her crew and helped her face an ancient sea monster called Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , also known as the Figurehead of the Deep. Although Iascylla proved to be a worthy foe, the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). eventually sailed close to the port city of Piltover and caught the attention of the spiritual goddess Janna , who used her powers over the winds to dispel Iascylla, protecting Nilah and pushing her away from Piltover's shores. [ 1 ]
Janna is a Spirit God who takes the form of a slender woman with white skin, tapered ears and long, pale blonde hair waving over his head and light teal eyes. She wears light, sacred clothing with a white palette with some orange gemstones. The most distinctive ornament on her attire is the crown that appears to be crystal on her head. She also has a staff that appears to be crystal.
Janna is a benevolent and mysterious individual, but is also extremely protective and caring towards those who believe in her and trust her guidance, she is true to her cause in helping those most in need.
Janna has been the protective deity of Zaun since ancient times. While worship of her has diminished during Darkin and Rune Wars, she would once again be called upon after the Sun Gates disaster. Since then Janna has been called upon to clear the air of noxious pollution from the undercity, as well as be a supportive presence for zaunite inhabitants that require it.
The Storm's Fury
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Janna
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
Deep Breath
They think Zaun is where the losers live.
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Short Story • 23 Minute Read
City of Iron and Glass
By Graham McNeill
"Hurry up, Wyn!" shouted Janke. "The Rising Howl's on its way!"
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Janna
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story
The Whispering Doodad
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
By Ariel Lawrence
Star Guardians can only defeat the darkness that spreads across the universe if they stand together. They will fight as one or fall as many.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Poppy
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Where the Heavens Touch the Earth
Starring: Fiora , Janna , Master Yi
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As the king’s only son, Prince Jarvan is heir apparent to the throne of Demacia . Raised to be a paragon of his nation’s greatest virtues, he is forced to balance the heavy expectations placed upon him with his own desire to prove himself on the battlefield. An exceptional warrior in his own right, Jarvan also inspires his troops with fearsome courage and selfless determination, raising his family’s colors high and revealing his true strength as a future leader of his people.
Jarvan III is the father of Jarvan IV and is the former King of Demacia. His lineage can be traced even further back to his great-grandfather of Jarvan I, the first king of Demacia who was killed by Sion during the decisive battle for Noxus .
Jarvan IV sees Xin Zhao as his Uncle.
Sylas is looking to overthrow and kill the Demacian elite, including Jarvan. Jarvan IV was almost executed by Sylas and now is chasing him, believing Sylas is behind his father's death, although the king was already dead by the time he was found.
Jarvan IV and Garen have known and become friends with each other since joining the military at young age.
Jarvan IV was saved by Shyvana after escaping and later helped her in slaying her mother and, out of gratitude, she earned a spot in the Demacian Elite Guard. Jarvan mentioned he loved someone that wasn't so different from the mages. It was later revealed to be Shyvana.
Jarvan IV was arranged to marry Lux by her family to protect her from being persecuted for being a mage: as queen, she would have been too powerful to accuse. After she didn't show up for the betrothal ceremony, the matter was apparently dropped.
After his father's death, Jarvan is counsel of many prominent nobles—including Garen’s aunt, High Marshal Tianna Crownguard to prepare him for the days ahead before he can be crowned king.
The Exemplar of Demacia
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Jarvan IV
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Shyvana , Sion , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Short Story
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The first rays of dawn brushed the rooftops of the Great City, turning pale stone to gold. The air was still, and the only sounds filtering up to the high garden terraces on the east side of the citadel were the gentle chorus of morning birds and the hushed murmur of the waking city below.
Starring: Jarvan IV , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Eldred , Jarvan III
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Ivory, Ebony, Jasper
The approaching swarm is a death sentence for a small village - unless Jarvan carries out his own.
Lux: Issue 2
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
Lux: Issue 4
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
Lux: Issue 5
As all mages are hunted down by Prince Jarvan IV and forces led by Garen, Lux must make her ultimate decision!
Mentioned: Jarvan III
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
By Graham McNeill
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
Fragile Legacies
By Dana Luery Shaw
I was young and unafraid, heart aflame with the sort of righteousness that cast out all shadows of doubt, on the day I first met Barrett Buvelle.
Starring: Eldred , Jarvan III , Quinn , Sona , Tianna
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan IV , Kayle , Morgana
Garen: First Shield
The King is dead. Demacia is mourning. And in the eyes of Garen Crownguard, it’s his fault. But can he rise to the challenge when Demacia needs him again? While on a peacetime expedition beyond the borders of Demacia, Garen, Quinn, and the Dauntless Vanguard uncover a plot that threatens to destroy long-standing alliances. As the knight-ranger Quinn tries to get word back to Demacia, Garen and his comrades make a desperate last stand. How long can they last, and at what cost?
Starring: Cithria , Garen , Quinn , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Lux: Issue 1
In Demacia, order reigns and magic is forbidden. How will the order be upset when Lux's hidden magic emerges?
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV
Lux: Issue 3
If saving Sylas means exposing her powers, will Lux dare risk her own future to save a criminal?
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
The Despoiler of Havenfall
By Michael Haugen Wieske
The fog had come in swiftly, eclipsing the afternoon sun over the crossroads.
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Kayle , Viego
The Half-Dragon
Starring: Shyvana
The Might of Demacia
Starring: Garen
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Tianna
The Seneschal of Demacia
By Michael Luo
Starring: Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Sylas
What Once Sailed Free
My father once said Noxus wasted its talent in those arenas. Now I see the truth in his words.
Starring: Jarvan III , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Jarvan IV
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Save the Celebration
Honor the past, protect the future. Every year, a beast of legend arrives to threaten the Lunar New Year, and every year, a team of heroes is chosen to stand as guardians over the celebration.
Starring: Alistar , Annie , Darius , Fiora , Jarvan IV
Demacia Needs Heroes
By Numerous creators
She is a new kind of hero, one of new mind and new method. One who can go where armies cannot reach, where swords cannot clash.
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan IV , Talon
Journey Into The Freljord
By Unknown Author
Mentioned: Ashe , Jarvan IV , Lissandra , Trundle
Music Video
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Starring: LeBlanc , Sion , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Elise , Jarvan IV , Vladimir
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
We're Taking Over.
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
By Dan Abnett
Ordinal Shieda Kayn slings out to the unremarkable edgeworld of Ionan, hot on the trail of a band of millitant Templars. These enemies of the state were clearly looking for something important...but what?
Starring: Kayn , Rhaast , Sona
Mentioned: Jarvan IV
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Runeterra's greatest weapons master, Jax is the only survivor of the Kohari—champions sworn to the defense of Icathia . But when the Void was unleashed against the Shuriman empire 's Ascended Host, Icathia was destroyed, leaving Jax without a home or purpose. He gathered the “last light of Icathia”, a symbol of his hope to one day defeat the Void, and now travels the world, searching for warriors strong enough to face the coming darkness by his side.
Saijax Cail-Rynx Icath’un was born and raised in Icathia , a vassal-state of the Shuriman Empire . He was raised by his father, who along with the other people of Icathia harbored resentment towards the Empire because of the fact that their great nation had been taken over by it. He would tell Jax stories of the Kohari, a group of heroes who served the Mage King, the title given to the ruler of Icathia before it was taken over. The Mage King had resisted the Shuriman acquisition of Icathia, but he was defeated in battle. In his honor, the Kohari committed ritual suicide, as was customary for their order. The corpses of the Kohari and the Mage King were paraded around the city by the Empire for all to see as a warning of the consequences of resistance.
Saijax's father passed down this resentment towards the Empire to his son, and Saijax started the study of arms, learning from Shurima's weapon masters and his clan's elders.
One day, a massive earthquake struck the coastal province of Saabera. This quake unearthed something hidden deep within the earth that Icathia's mages recognized could help them defeat the Shuriman Empire and gain their independence. Saijax was tasked with protecting and escorting the mages while they traveled, and he saw that the mages could barely contain what they had found with brazier staves with magical fire. This power would be come to be known as The Void .
Saijax was worried about the safety of using The Void as a weapon. As a master of weapons, he knew the danger of using a weapon they couldn't understand or control. He would come to regret not killing the mages when he had the chance.
Confident that they could win with the powers of The Void, the people of Icathia crowned a new Mage King and rebuilt the Kohari, with Saijax among the first to join their ranks. They won early engagements with the Shuriman troops and Saijax even defeated an Ascended warrior. Soon, even more Ascended and troops arrived to fight against Icathia. Saijax was on the front lines and fought many troops, stopping them from advancing into their home. As the battle raged, the mages unleashed the power of The Void, killing many Shuriman troops. However, the mages lost control of it quickly and it started consuming everything around it, including the entirety of Icathia. Saijax, seeing that it was lost, left Icathia to be destroyed. He eventually returned to where Icathia once stood, ready to commit ritual suicide like the Kohari of old. However, before he could do it, he saw a brazier stave that was used to contain The Void and he saw that it was still burning. He saw the hope that it represented and picked it up and left. He forsook his name in shame and was henceforth known as Jax.
Jax has committed himself to rebuilding the Kohari and fighting The Void in Shurima. The flame inside the brazier stave that he now uses as a weapon burned lower the farther he went from Icathia, making him realize that he cannot run from his past. He has fought a great many people, but none have been skilled enough. He will not stop until he has rebuilt the Kohari and can finally take on The Void.
Jax wears purple robes with blue tinted stripes and patterns in various places. He carries with him a brazier stave used to contain elemental fire that can harm The Void. His most defining feature is his mask with six glowing blue "eyes" that covers his entire face.
It is not known what he looks like underneath his mask. However, during the events of Icathia's destruction, he was described as having a shaven head, a forked beard, and skin pockmarked by a childhood illness.
Always itching for a fight, Jax is a brazen and arrogant individual, wanting to find an opponent that presents him a challenge. Despite this brazen personality, Jax still harbors personal doubt because of the events of Icathia, which changed him forever.
Jax fought against the God-warriors of Shurima during the final days of Icathia. This would include Aatrox , Nasus , Renekton , Varus , and possibly Rhaast .
While looking for people to join his rebuilt Kohari force, Jax stood on a bridge belonging to House Laurent, of which Fiora is a part of. After defeating numerous Demacian warriors and fighters on the bridge, Jax fought Fiora. It is not known the outcome of this fight, however it is known that both survived the encounter.
Grandmaster at Arms
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Jax
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
None Shall Pass
By Graham McNeill
Jax sat cross-legged at the center of the bridge with his long-hafted polearm resting on his knees. Demacia had not changed much since he had last traveled this way, but that didn't surprise him. Its people zealously protected their borders, which had turned them into pretty decent fighters. Well, some of them anyway, he thought, wiping a spot of blood from the softly glowing head of the lamppost. He flicked the droplet over the parapet to the river below and reached into his robe to pull out his third hard-boiled egg of the day. Tapping it on the cobbles, he slowly peeled the shell as he heard the warriors at the end of the bridge try to decide which one of them would face him next.
Mentioned: Fiora
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Ezreal's Field Notes
By Matthew Dunn
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
Fire to the Fuse
By Numerous Creators
Driven by an endless need for revenge, Pyke hunts down other versions of himself across dimensions. After each kill, the dimension collapses and a new Empyrean is born with volatile powers and a mission all their own.
Starring: Jax , Lux , Pyke
Short Story
By Numerous creators
We must rise above the past if we wish to have a future.
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Jayce is a brilliant inventor who has pledged his life to the defense of Piltover and its unyielding pursuit of progress. With his transforming hextech hammer in hand, Jayce uses his strength, courage, and considerable intelligence to protect his hometown. While revered throughout the city as a hero, he hasn't taken well to the attention it brings. Still, Jayce's heart is in the right place, and even those who envy his natural skills are grateful for his protection in the City of Progress.
Jayce is a tall, muscular, and tanned man. He has blue (sometimes depicted as violet) eyes and had short dark brown hair with shaved sides stubble.Jayce can be seen wearing typical Piltovan clothing, most often his signature leather coat with gear and cog elements on it.
Viktor and Jayce were previously friends, and are now unfortunately enemies. They disagree over many topics relating to ethics in science, most pertaining to free will.
The Defender of Tomorrow
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Jayce
Mentioned: Viktor
A Perfect Life: Closed Circuit
By John O'Bryan
Ekko is a teen inventor who lives in Zaun, a city where being handy with technology is the best path to a better future. His greatest invention is the Z-Drive: a device which allows him to rewind his own timeline—and redo the last few seconds of his past. Ekko uses the Z-Drive to fix everything in his life: small mistakes, life-changing ones, and everything in between. But messing with time can have some major consequences for Ekko, his friends, his family, and his world... In this prequel to Conv/rgence, Ekko imagines a timeline without do-overs, where he must give up the extra chances time travel has offered him. But it's harder than he thinks to let time flow on without getting involved...
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Jayce , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
A Perfect Life: Side Effects
Starring: Ekko , Jayce , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
A Quick Fix
Any fool could have predicted that Viktor would strike back at some point. If one weren't a fool, one might predict the exact date and time of an attempted counterattack.
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Short Story
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
A Perfect Life: Jump Start
Starring: Chancee , Ekko , Inna , Lem , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Aximander , Chadd , Elie , Jayce , Rungs
A Perfect Life: The Depths
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna , Jayce , Jinx
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
The Machine Herald
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Viktor
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Jayce
Attack of the Demon Poros
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 3
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
An ancient mystery in Runeterra
By Explorer Ezreal
Starring: Aatrox , Ezreal
Mentioned: Jayce , Lux , Twisted Fate
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Represent Your House
Which side will you choose?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ezreal , Jayce , Katarina , Lux
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Jhin is a meticulous criminal psychopath who believes murder is art. Once an Ionian prisoner, but freed by shadowy elements within Ionia's ruling council, the serial killer now works as their cabal's assassin. Using his gun as his paintbrush, Jhin creates works of artistic brutality, horrifying victims and onlookers. He gains a cruel pleasure from putting on his gruesome theater, making him the ideal choice to send the most powerful of messages: terror.
Jhin is assumed to have spent most of his life into early 20's on the Ionian province of Zhyun . Not much is known about his family life, except for his father's martial arts school. His father's career was snuffed out by the success of Wuju .
Jhin had been slaughtering farmsteads and scores of travelers for an unknown period of time before he was pursued by Master Kusho , Usan , and Shen . He began his work in the ages spanning from 19-21, working primarily with knives. For a little more than four years, the three men pursued Jhin and were far from the first to have hunted him down. In the final stages of the three men's investigation, they discover that he is a mere stagehand working for Zhyun 's traveling theatre and opera houses under the name, "Khada Jhin". This is not his real name, the real one remains a mystery.
Master Kusho, Zed, and Shen followed Jhin's movements to Jyom Pass on the Ghajan river. Zed chases Jhin down, then gets knocked out by the handle of his blade. Jhin captured the young acolyte and tied him to a chair looking out towards the dock. Before Zed wakes up, Jhin takes the amulet off his neck. Zed wakes up to Jhin chiding him to look up, saying that he'll want to see Yevnai before she dies. Jhin goes on about how boring and symmetrical Yevnai's face is in contrast to the situation which was "glorious" . Zed begins to cry at seeing Yevnai on the dock before her "final moments". After Jhin goes on about the tragic connections between Yevnai, Shen and Usan, the captive Zed begs for Jhin to not harm her, admitting that they were following him and noting that Yevnai, "didn't do anything". After saying he'll do anything, Jhin asks about the amulet that he took from Zed. Zed then concedes that it is a symbol of the Kinkou and that the amulet allows them to find him. Shen, presumably having found Zed, punches through the wall and pins Jhin's neck to the wall. Zed declares that the whole thing was a set-up, that he was the bait, and takes Jhin's 4th knife, lunging at the man to kill him. Master Kusho appears in the nick of time, saving Khada Jhin's life. [ 1 ] Kusho believes that because Jhin is not a real demon , he should be locked away at the monastery prison in Tuula .
Khada Jhin was sentenced to life in the Tuula monastery prison. Jhin revealed as little about himself as possible during his many years there. The monks that guarded him said he was a "bright student". He excelled at a myriad of subjects, mostly in the arts, (i.e. smithing, poetry, and dance). Despite this, they could find nothing to cure him of his morbid fascinations. During his time in jail, the Noxian invasion began, and it is due to Ionia's instability during this time that his patrons funded him and released him from jail to terrorize the citizens of Ionia into action.
Jhin, post-Tuula, is freely roaming, bound only by his patrons. Those weaponizing Jhin include: the Kashuri Armories, as their weapons are relatively moderized for Ionia. Supposedly Jhin has also done performances for the Navori Brotherhood , Noxus , and most recently Zaun . Zed, when faced with Jhin's sniper rifle for the first time remarked that it was a "foreigners weapon". He has been described at this point in his life as both an assassin and an instrument of terror. [ 2 ]
Jhin was released some time after the war with Noxus. The timeline of his actions right after his release from prison is unclear, but he eventually sends a messenger out to Zed . She, the messenger, rows a small boat (with one of Jhin's lanterns on it!) out to the Kwol Tavern where she finds Master Zed and delivers him a message about a "rich man" wanting to meet him in the village north of the Thonx outskirts ; she gives Zed a blade attuned to his spirit wrapped in a red cloth which was the "rich man's" supposed thank-you-gift. [ 3 ] Jhin kills four people before the Order of Shadow arrive: two unidentified people, the messenger, and the woman whose leg was amputated by Zed and Kusho 16 years prior. This time span makes Jhin about 38 to 39 years old currently.
Jhin is a tall, slender, pale-skinned man. He has black hair and brown eyes (he is seen only using one, however his eyes are perfectly fine, he covers one because he enjoys the lack of depth during his "performances").
His most noticeable feature is his theater mask that he wears constantly when performing as Khada Jhin. It is implied that he has an average face that allows him to easily blend in when in a crowd. Typically, he wears a large white cloak and elegant Ionian attire. He refers to his attire as his "finery" and at times uses the middle half of his gun as a cane to announce his presence and to rhythmically tap on the ground. [ 4 ]
Despite his theatrics during murders, much of his day-to-day personality is reserved and quiet; it's not very memorable which he takes advantage of with his performances. Within the ranks of the Navori Brotherhood , the few that know him consider him a weirdo. [ 1 ] His inner voice is one of attentiveness, almost to the point of obsession, like when he cleans the stock of his gun. When interacting with the people around him, he seems to analyze their attributes. The man is internally self-deprecating, as it is mentioned in his color story, "normally, [his appearance] elicited pangs of self-conscious loathing". When it comes to his performances, he's willing to take risks which makes sense due to his psychopathy. He's also notably grandiose, carrying himself with an air of haughtiness.
Akali tracked Jhin down to Piltover - Zaun and was captured by him, but was later saved with the help of Shen and Zed .
The two artists have creative differences, however they respect each other for these differences. Jhin and Hwei spent an entire summer together at the monastery at Koyehn. On his final night at the temple, Jhin confronted him, sensing that Hwei's work was a facade. Hwei tried to deny it, but his eyes were a dead giveaway (they color shift to reveal his emotions). Hwei painted truthfully for Jhin and afterwards "with eyes alight and tone inscrutable" he said his good byes, stating that his departure was "to watch the lotus blossoms bloom". Jhin committed a series of cruel acts at Koyehn : destroyed four historic paintings, killed four Koyehn Masters, and set fire to the lowest four floors of the temple. As a result of the fires, the temple collapsed. Hwei holds a complex mixture of feelings (awe, resentment, fear, sorrow, etc). towards Jhin due to the tragedy, but it is still Hwei's goal to find the man and speak with him again, share a meal, and ask him why.
As the main reason for his imprisonment, Jhin holds some resentment towards the Kinkou master. However, after Kusho fakes his death with the help of Zed and becoming the leader of the Navori Brotherhood , Kusho unleashed Jhin to terrorize and get control of Ionia . Jhin knows the truth about the circumstance of Kusho's "death" and could have revealed to Shen if he had wanted to but didn't as he realized Zed was going after Kusho.
Jhin has some resentment towards Shen and Zed for catching him and imprisoning him. During each of his encounters with both Shen and Zed, he would leave a trail of gruesome deaths behind him, which would forever change the two ninjas. After he was released, Jhin would force Zed and Shen to work together so he might kill them both for catching him years before. He attacked Zed, Kayn and their order , killing some of the members.
Jhin has some interest in killing Sona for being a very famous Ionian artist who is taking the spotlight away from his 'performances'.
The Virtuoso
By Odin Austin Shafer , Ian St. Martin
Starring: Jhin
Mentioned: Kusho , Shen , Zed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Mind of the Virtuoso
I will make you beautiful. I will make you perfect.
Short Story
The Man with the Steel Cane
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Shen , Zed
Zed: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed is lured back to a village where he and Shen once encountered a great evil, a brutal killer from their past resurfaces: the magically gifted psychopath Khada Jhin!
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Rhaast
Zed: Issue 2
Zed is under attack from all sides! He and his band of assassins are ambushed by the twisted Khada Jhin! In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 3
In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 4
Khada Jhin's master plan comes together in a most explosive and deadly manner! But even if Zed and Shen survive, they might just kill one another! Only one will be left standing by the end of this issue!
Zed: Issue 5
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Zed: Issue 6
It's all led to this: Zed and Shen, united in a final battle with the psychopathic murderer Khada Jhin! And the life of the captive Akali hangs in the balance! Then--Shen and Zed's greatest enemy will stand revealed…and you'll never guess who it is! Shocking secrets about the past AND the present will be unveiled…and whoever survives will be left to pick up the pieces!
Paintings Framed in Half-Light
By Isa Mari De Leon
Visions pour in.
Starring: Hwei
Mentioned: Jhin
The Eye of Twilight
By Michael Luo
Starring: Shen
Mentioned: Akali , Jhin , Kusho , Zed
The Master of Shadows
By Michael Luo , Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Zed
Mentioned: Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen
The Visionary
Of Rats and Cats and Neon Mice
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Jhin , Vayne , Vi
The Bloody Tale
By Unknown Author
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A manic and impulsive criminal from Zaun , Jinx lives to wreak havoc without care for the consequences. With an arsenal of deadly weapons, she unleashes the loudest blasts and brightest explosions to leave a trail of mayhem and panic in her wake. Jinx despises boredom and gleefully brings her own chaotic brand of pandemonium wherever she goes.
She is CRAZY
Jinx grew up in Zaun as a sweet and innocent girl who loved tinkering with machinery but never quite fit in. However, a horrible tragedy changed her into a completely different person who delighted in acts of destruction.
Jinx eventually became a widely known criminal, first gaining notoriety through her anonymous “pranks” on the citizens of Piltover , particularly those with connections to the city's ruling houses. These pranks ranged from mildly annoying to extremely dangerous, causing chaos and mayhem throughout Piltover and Zaun. Law enforcement attributed these to other gangs in Zaun, and Jinx was annoyed by this, deciding to make it clear that her future "pranks" were going to clearly mark her as their perpetrator from then on. Soon, word of her began to spread around and she became the most widely known criminal in both cities, causing mayhem and destruction wherever she went.
Jinx continues to cause mayhem around Piltover and Zaun wherever and whenever she can with seemingly no regard for the property damage or potential victims she would create, only occasionally being thwarted by enforcer Vi or Caitlyn .
Jinx began to be idolized by a group of Zaunites who adored how she caused chaos and destruction, although she ignored them.
Jinx's in-game design contains a fairly petite height, standing at the short stature 5'3" while sporting an exaggerated slender form that includes a narrow abdomen and sinewy arms and legs. She has bright blue hair that has a large swoop bang facing her left, with her hair tied into two tight braids that fall over her mid-back and cascade and almost reaching to the ground.
She possesses a pallor skin shade, with slight bags underneath her eyes along with a dullish hue going on about in her scheme. Her attire consists of a smooth sharpish leather v neck bralette. With a mixmached design on both straps-with the left being a striped magenta and the right being a black grain leather that has a lattice pattern. Her bottom hemline flourishing a belt holder. As for her bottoms, she dons a pair of short torn magenta shorts that are loosely hung up by large bullet belt. She sports a long purple fishnet stocking on her left thigh, a pair of linen leather combat boots worn and weathered faltered collars, and a X shaped bandage on her right knee.
Jinx is an eccentric inventor and criminal, taking pleasure in inventing and causing mayhem and destruction. Jinx can be described as a highly volatile entity who exhibits a range of psychological complexities characterized by borderline personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder. Her emotional agility is nothing short of bewildering, with mood swings of drastic proportions. A memorable past of relentless trauma has left her with a sense of inhospitality and disregard that fuels a powerful outburst of anger and resentment toward the cosmos, which in turn leads her to recklessly display impetuous tendencies.
An inseparable amalgam of a fearful and chaotic individual, Jinx is the epitome of anarchism and recklessness. Her uncanny ability to remain indifferent to the feelings and rights of others makes her an enigma worthy of analysis. Jinx's compulsion to malice and malevolence is quite disturbing, and her thought process may indicate the presence of psychopathic tendencies. An examination of her character reveals her to be a confused and troubled individual, plagued by emotional instability and a lack of the skills necessary to maintain an emotionally stable relationship.
As an enforcer, Vi is dedicated to capturing Jinx at all costs. Jinx once painted a rude depiction of Vi on the wall of the Ecliptic Vaults, one of Piltover's most secure treasuries.
Jinx seemingly shows no signs of knowing Ekko, despite Ekko stating that he knew Jinx and had a crush on her when they were kids.
As the sheriff of Piltover , Caitlyn is dedicated to arresting Jinx for her crimes.
Meeting Ziggs during her regular escapades around Zaun, Jinx quickly saw through his yordle glamour, believing him to be a product of her imagination, more specifically, her conscience. Due to their shared love for explosions, Jinx convinced Ziggs to live with her in Zaun after a night of hijinks .
The Loose Cannon
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Jinx
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Vi
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Music Video
By Justin Tranter , Imagine Dragons , JID , Fortiche Productions
Oh, the misery, everybody wants to be my ENEMY.
Starring: Aero , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Jericho , Jinx , Mylo , Vi
Paint the Town
By Anthony Burch , Fabio Moon , Dave Stewart
Oh, they say I'm crazy -- they say that Yordles would be easy to spot in a city such as ours, what with their fuzzy countenances and diminutive stature. But I've heard rumors that they have invented some sort of magical charms that make these abominations appear no different from you or I. But don't be fooled! No matter how adorable they may seem, these mischievous creatures will bring our city of Piltover to ruin! If I were so moved, I'd say they're an even bigger threat than those lunatic terrorists from Zaun! But I'm getting ahead of myself. Our story starts in a small pyrotechnics shop in Piltover, run by two unnervingly fuzzy gentlemen...
Starring: Heimerdinger , Jinx , Ziggs
Short Story
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The Wedding Crasher
Jinx hated petticoats.
True Genius
When Heimerdinger's latest hextech creation is stolen by Jinx, the professor sends an unfortunate apprentice on a wild goose chase through the City of Progress… and beneath it.
Starring: Ekko , Heimerdinger , Jinx
A Perfect Life: The Depths
By John O'Bryan
Ekko is a teen inventor who lives in Zaun, a city where being handy with technology is the best path to a better future. His greatest invention is the Z-Drive: a device which allows him to rewind his own timeline—and redo the last few seconds of his past. Ekko uses the Z-Drive to fix everything in his life: small mistakes, life-changing ones, and everything in between. But messing with time can have some major consequences for Ekko, his friends, his family, and his world... In this prequel to Conv/rgence, Ekko imagines a timeline without do-overs, where he must give up the extra chances time travel has offered him. But it's harder than he thinks to let time flow on without getting involved...
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna , Jayce , Jinx
Bombs: A Tribute
By Abigail Harvey
Okay, Zaun. I’m here, I’m fuzzy, and I’m ready to explode stuff.
Starring: Ziggs
Mentioned: Heimerdinger , Jinx
Some things are worth fighting for. Time and time again.
Starring: Ekko
Mentioned: Ajuna Lem , Jinx
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Piltover Enforcer
Starring: Vi
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Jinx
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
By Agnete Kjølsrud , Christian Linke
Jinx's dreams come alive in a hexplosive sequence packed with bombs and bullets and her unique take on fun.
Mentioned: Ziggs
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Mayhem Everywhere You Look
By Unknown Author
An inane crime wave sweeps Piltover to the tune of manic laughter. As authorities attempt to curtail the chaos, one enforcer vows to pull the plug on the panic-inducing party.
Starring: Jinx , Vi
By Ariel Lawrence
Star Guardians can only defeat the darkness that spreads across the universe if they stand together. They will fight as one or fall as many.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Poppy
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Spooky Jinx
Sometimes your worst nightmare has a nightmare. Just ask KayPea. It's On.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
An undying specter of wrath and retribution, Kalista is an armored nightmare summoned from the Shadow Isles to hunt deceivers and traitors. The betrayed may cry out in blood to be avenged, but Kalista only answers those willing to pay with their very souls. Those who become the focus of Kalista's wrath should make their final peace, for any pact sealed with this grim hunter can only be ended by the cold, piercing fire of her soul-spears .
Kalista was born in the long-forgotten kingdom of Camavor , as the daughter of the heir to the Argent Throne and the niece of Viego . Despite being his niece, Kalista and Viego were close in age and was one of his closest friends, acting as a big sister towards him. Eventually her father passed and when her grandfather was on his deathbed, he tasked her with monitoring Viego's reign, due to him being unprepared to rule. Kalista served him with utmost loyalty as the general of Camavor. Viego would fall in love with Isolde and two would soon wed. Kalista saw Isolde as a sister and enjoyed the positive influence she had on his uncle.
When Viego was targeted by an assassin sent to kill him with a poisoned blade, Kalista deflected the blade in time but accidentally caused it to graze Isolde instead. With the best medics and priests in Camavor unable to save her, a grief-stricken Viego sent Kalista, along with the captain of the Iron Order, Hecarim , to find a cure. While most nations were unable to give her the results she wanted, she learned of the Blessed Isles and was able to get the Waters of Life that could cure even the direst of ailments. But when she got back, Isolde had already succumbed to the poison. Viego, maddened by grief, saw Kalista as a traitor to the crown and got her imprisoned.
In the dungeons, Kalista was visited by Hecarim, who manipulated her into revealing the location of the Blessed Isles all so he could reap glory for himself. Hecarim then told Viego about the information she gave him, which led to the fleets of Camavor sailing to the capital of the Blessed Isles, Helia .
However, the elders of the Blessed Isles refused to let the Camavorans pass, as they believed that death was final and to cheat it would break the natural order of the world. Viego ignored their warnings and ordered Kalista to kill them. She refused and tried to get Hecarim to stand with her, but he and his knights killed her by driving their spears into her back, before killing her lover Ledros and all the Camavoran soldiers loyal to her. Then, they began to raid the Blessed Isles, looting their treasures and killing all of the natives they could find. But thanks to Viego's failed attempt to revive his wife, the Blessed Isles' protective barrier was tainted by the magic of Viego's blade , causing a disaster which turned it into the ghostly realm now known as the Shadow Isles .
Many of the people within the Isles at the time of the Ruination, both living and dead, were reborn as ghostly wraiths . Kalista was one such wraith, who remembered nothing but her feelings of vengeance toward Hecarim as she died. She became a spirit of vengeance, travelling all over Runeterra to appear before those who made pacts in her name, absorbing their souls to kill the ones whom had betrayed them. But with each soul she absorbed, her humanity disappeared as she became a hive mind of vengeful souls who avenged the wronged across Runeterra.
In life, Kalista was a woman with an athletic physique, brown skin, brown eyes, and long, flowing black hair. Her regal Camavoran armor was blue plate with a gold trim. She wore a cloth around the back of her legs and an open-faced helmet with a long, dark plume. She wielded a spear.
In death, Kalista is a translucent, teal spirit. She appears emaciated and hunched, with several spectral spears protruding from her torso. While her armor remains opaque, it is now black and dark brown with tattered cloth portions. Her spears, which now materialize in her hands, are jagged and spectral.
While being of royal blood, Kalista was surprisingly down to earth in life and had a strong sense of justice. She got along far better with the common footsoldiers in the military than the nobles trying to curry favour with her. She was also depicted as caring sister figure to a young Viego when he suddenly was to be crowned as king of Camavor and tried to be his emotional and moral support during his reign, with some help from Isolde .
When she became a wraith, Kalista lost much of her humanity. With only the memories of betrayals she has suffered in her life, an intense thirst for revenge persisted, becoming a vengeful spirit.
Kalista is the Ruined King's niece and was one of his generals in life. Kalista's father was the previous king of Camavor . Viego became the king after his brother died in battle. Despite being her uncle, Kalista and Viego were around the same age and friends for a long time since he was largely ignored in favor of Kalista's father. When her father died and Viego became king, his negative traits were worsened and they began to drift apart, however she was still loyal to him. Kalista managed to protect Viego from an assassin, but resulted in Isolde getting poisoned instead. She would set sail in order to find a cure, but found it too late and was imprisoned as a traitor for her failure.She was eventually convinced by Hecarim to lead Viego and their army to the Blessed Isles for the Waters of Life. When the masters of the island refused to let them use the water, Viego ordered her to kill anyone who opposed them. Kalista refused and was stabbed by Hecarim before her forces clashed with the Iron Order.
Commander Ledros was her lover in life and is trying to free her soul. Thresh tried to persuade him to give up trying to free Kalista and so far has succeeded at obtaining his silver pendant which Ledros may use to remind Kalista of her humanity, but Ledros instead has tried to end the curse of the Ruination himself.
Hecarim and his Iron Order are now restlessly hunted and "killed" by her, but they always come back due to the Black Mist.
Vladimir was soul-marked by Kalista but he was able to banish her with the help of a magical artifact. He was a prince of Camavor, and Viego and Kalista's distant relative who was centuries old by the time they were born.
Kalista occasionally comes after Tahm Kench ; however, he is safe from her due to his contracts with the victims.
In her journey to the Blessed Isles, Kalista crossed paths with Ryze during his formative years. Initially, she found the young apprentice brimming with arrogance and entitlement, reminiscent of her uncle, Viego . Their first encounter ended with Ryze's arm twisted, after which Ryze started to be far more respectful towards the Camavoran princess.
When hearing had Kalista sacrificed herself in order to give the people of Helia a chance to escape from the invading Camavorans, Ryze regretted not having had the opportunity to apologize for their initial meeting.
The Spear of Vengeance
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Kalista
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Viego
Beyond the Mist
Moments before reaching the Blessed Isles, Kalista’s fate is written in the mist.
Mentioned: Ledros , Soraka , Viego
Short Story
In Sight of Land
By Ian St. Martin
The waters were eerily still at night. Their surface was so undisturbed, one might mistake it for dark glass mirroring the starlit skies above. Moonlight bathed everything in cold, silver light, though its radiance was slowly dying.
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Graham McNeill
The sword-wife stood amid the burnt out ruin of her home. Everything and everyone that mattered to her was gone, and she was filled with fathomless grief... and hate. Hate was now all that compelled her.
RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey (Wild Rift)
Kalista drives fear and spears into the hearts of all who oppose her, but she wasn't always as a wraith of the Shadow Isles. Come learn her tragic story in League of Legends: Wild Rift special RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey event.
Starring: Hecarim , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Jenda'kaya , Necrit , Soraka , Tyrus , Vennix
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
Ruination (Novel)
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
The Daring Darling
By Laura Michet
Fayette always warned her guests that the journey from the Shadow Isles back to the Daring Darling's dock would take a whole watch.
Starring: Kalista , Vladimir
The Echoes Left Behind
Blood pooled beneath him, bright crimson against pristine white stone. His sword lay nearby, its blade broken. His killers stood around him, shadows on the periphery, but he saw nothing except her.
Starring: Kalista , Ledros , Thresh
Mentioned: Hecarim , Ryze , Viego
A pledge and a soul Escape his final breath, His offer accepted And her spirit summoned, A soul for a soul-- His betrayer's life, Rent.
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
The Shadow of War
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Isolde , Kalista , Thresh , Viego
Music Video
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
No mortal exemplifies the spiritual traditions of Ionia more than Karma . She is the living embodiment of an ancient soul reincarnated countless times, carrying all her accumulated memories into each new life, and blessed with power that few can comprehend. She has done her best to guide her people in recent times of crisis, though she knows that peace and harmony may come only at a considerable cost—both to her, and to the land she holds most dear.
Karma is an ancient spirit of Ionia which has guided the Ionian people for many generations, taking the form of many human incarnations throughout history. One known incarnation, Jakgri, had to leave his lover Watai in order to take on his duties as Karma. After his death, the collective spirit of Karma moved on to its current host: Darha, a girl who was raised in Shon-Xan and carried Kathkani ancestry. At the age of twelve, she began to see visions of memories that weren't hers, and she tried to resist the visions at first before she could no longer handle them. Sent to rest at a healing hut, Darha recognized a group of monks from the Lasting Altar who visited her village to search for the next reincarnation of Karma. Just as they prepared to leave unsuccessful, Darha ran to them, crying to them about her visions and recognizing their voices from her visions. The monks realized that Darha's visions were the result of Karma's past lives moving on to their next vessel, so they adopted her as the new Karma. Leaving her old life behind, Darha was taught how to connect and communicate with the past lives of Karma, and adopted the traditional philosophy of promoting peace and harmony while leaving acts of evil to await their own consequences. But in spite of these teachings, Darha felt confliction of these philosophies, to the confusion of her followers.
When the forces of Noxus invaded Ionia, Karma felt the true horrors of war as millions of Ionians were slaughtered by the Noxians. The voices within Karma told her to remain at the Lasting Altar and handle the conflict peacefully, but an even bigger urge to take action swelled in her. Feeling agonized by her internal conflict, Karma stood up and headed out to act. She confronted a Noxian commander on his war frigate by blasting him with divine energy, destroying the ship and killing many of the crew members.
The Ionian civilians cheered for Karma's victory, but the monks believed that she had misused her power and went against everything the spirit of Karma stood for, bringing dishonor to her past lives. Karma interrupted with a raised hand, with the spirit of Ionia intervening to defend itself when necessary. She realized that the true way to keep harmony was to accept that the world was changing rather than ignoring it. As the Ionians ended up stirring into conflict as a result of the war, Karma dedicated herself to guiding her people to peace, while condoning action to be taken when necessary.
Many years after the death of Jakgri, his lover Watai visited the Lasting Altar to receive Karma's healing after being damaged by a fall. Karma healed her leg, but Watai felt contempt towards her due to her pain towards Jakgri's death. Karma admitted to her guilt towards her involvement in the Noxian conflct and being unable to apologize to the people whose lives were ruined by the war, but had no regrets for acting upon Ionia's will to fight back. Watai showed Karma her ring which Jakgri had given her, where the two had to be separated due to having to live their lives far away from each other. Suddenly, Karma's eyes glowed the same color that Jakgri's had when he was Karma. Watai began to tear up, emotional towards the possibility of Jakgri's soul still being in there. Karma told her that he was now a part of the avatar's shared mind, and Watai started to resign to the thought that he had a new life to live. Suddenly, Karma was taken over by the collective spirits, whom reassured Watai that Jakgri loved her until the end and he wanted her to keep her ring. Watai thanked Karma for allowing him to come back, but Karma thanked her since Jakgri's voice had become silent for a long time after the war, but it was she who brought him back. Karma invited Watai to stay at the Lasting Alter for a few more days so they could both heal. By the end of the period, Jakgri's spirit became a part of Karma again, and Watai left knowing that not even death could stop the two's love for each other.
When the Ruined King returned to the world of Runeterra, he resumed his search for his fallen queen. He would unleash harrowings across Runeterra in search of the fragments of her soul. Karma would defend the Lasting Altar against one of these Harrowings, but was nearly overwhelmed and corrupted by the king. The Harrowing would subside, when Viego obtained a soul fragment from Senna , but Karma would be left influenced by the king's magic. Karma would eventually come into possession of one of the fetters of Queen Isolde's soul, a silver flower.
The King would soon continue his search, with aid from his Yordle companion, Vex , by unleashing a global Harrowing, spreading Black Mist across Runeterra. The Sentinels of Light would arrive in Ionia in search of the fragment and were guided to the Lasting Altar by Irelia . Karma proposed hiding the fetter within an ancient Vastayan groves, guarded by ancient magics that not even the Black Mist could penetrate. As they prepared to leave, they would be ambushed by an army of Mistwalkers, the Sentinels and Irelia would hold off the ghouls while Karma fled towards the grove.
The Sentinels would catch up to Karma and they escorted her towards the grove, she began to express regret at not having done more during the Noxian invasion. Karma's regret caused her become susceptible to the influence of the Black Magic and she began to become ruined. Now under the sway of the Ruined King, she would attempt to flee with the fetter, but the Sentinels intercepted her. They manage to incapacite and momentarily purify her, she then reveals the King's plan, to use the fragments of the queen's soul to resurrect her. They are soon spotted by another hoard of ghouls, Karma gives the Sentinels the fetter and tells them to leave her as she succumbs to the Black Mist again. Karma would then become fully corrupted by the Black Mist and become an agent of Viego.
She and Draven would accompany the Ruined King to Shurima to search for another fetter. She, alongside the other corrupted champions, would face off against the Sentinels of Light when they mounted their final assault against the Shadow Isles. Viego would resurrect Isolde, but would be to rest again by Akshan and his Absolver. The Sentinels imprisoned Viego within Hallow Mist in Camavor. With Viego defeated, his corruption would subside and Karma and others would be free from the Ruined King's influence.
Karma is a tall, slim and curvaceous young woman with slightly brown skin, short brown hair and emerald green eyes, she wears makeup with marks under her eyes, dark red lipstick, dark eye shadow and wears a kind of golden headband with a gem. aquamarine green in the center.
Her clothes consist of a long Ionian dress with different shades of purple and violet colors, with golden lines that run through the entire dress, it has a white sash that is tightened with a purple bow, its right side has a long sleeve and the leg is exposed and her left side has an exposed arm and a purple sock on her left leg.
Karma is depicted as a wise and compassionate individual with a strong sense of responsibility and duty. As an ancient spirit of Ionia, she has guided the Ionian people for generations, taking on various human incarnations throughout history. Karma is known for her wisdom and guidance. She carries the collective memories and experiences of her past lives, which allows her to offer valuable insights and advice to those around her. Her guidance is often sought in times of uncertainty or conflict. Despite her commitment to peace, Karma experiences an internal conflict when faced with the brutality of war. Her struggle to balance her desire for harmony with the need for action and protection. She grapples with the ethical dilemma of whether to remain pacifist in the face of conflict or take more direct action to protect her people.
The Enlightened One
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Karma
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story
Remember Me
By Dana Luery Shaw
Watai twisted the jade ring on her finger anxiously as she stared up at the monastery carved into the mountainside
Rise of the Sentinels
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Stains on a Name
I believed in you, Blade Dancer!' the man choked, his lips frothing red. 'You showed us the path…'
Starring: Irelia
Mentioned: Karma
The Blade Dancer
Mentioned: Karma , Swain
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Destroy your doubt, face the future.
Starring: Irelia , Karma , Lissandra
The Blade Dancer: Issue 1
Starring: Irelia , Karma
The Blade Dancer: Issue 2
Mentioned: Kindred
The Blade Dancer: Issue 3
Mentioned: Swain
The Blade Dancer: Issue 4
Mentioned: Soraka
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The harbinger of oblivion, Karthus is an undying spirit whose haunting songs are a prelude to the horror of his nightmarish appearance. The living fear the eternity of undeath, but Karthus sees only beauty and purity in its embrace, a perfect union of life and death. When Karthus emerges from the Shadow Isles , it is to bring the joy of death to mortals as an apostle of the unliving.
Karthus was born in a poor area just outside the capital of Noxus , living in an almshouse with other families. Fascinated with death, Karthus would sneak into the rooms of those about to die and wait beside them to watch them, intent on seeing the moment of their death. He would not see this moment until his sisters came down with the plague. He looked after them, and as they died, Karthus realized that he wanted to experience whatever was beyond death.
After the tally-men of Kindred collected his sisters' bodies, as was custom in the parts of Noxus where they lived, Karthus followed them, asking them questions along the way. The tally-men soon accepted Karthus into their ranks, first as a grave digger, then pyre builder, then a corpse collector. Eventually, Karthus worked in the temple of the tally-men, tending to the sick in their final moments. As they died, he asked them what they saw and what layed beyond death.
After watching many more die in front of him and getting unsatisfying answers from those that he questioned, Karthus decided that he couldn't learn any more from the living. so he would instead try to learn from the dead. After learning of the Shadow Isles from the dying people that he questioned, he decided to leave the order of tally-men and journey to the Isles himself.
After a long journey, Karthus finally arrived at the shores of the Shadow Isles. As the Black Mist entered Karthus and ravaged his body and soul, his desire to transcend mortality stopped him from dying. Instead, his body was transformed, and he was put into the threshold between life and death. Karthus decided to preach death to the rest of the world, and as he killed the fisherman that brought him to the Isles, he vowed to bring death to all.
Karthus is a thin man wraith with unnaturally colored skin, pale white in some areas and pure black in others. There is blue light eminating from the crevices where his eyes and mouth would be. He wears the traditional clothes of a member of the tally-men of Kindred , dark red and grey robes with armored cuffs and shoulderblades. He carries the staff of a tally-man of Kindred, with a grey handle and a spike at its tip. He also carries a book with him, with it likely containing either prepared laments for the dead or spells and enchantments, possibly both.
Karthus has pledged to bringing death to the world. He sees life as a crutch and an obstacle from reaching the true potential and knowledge that humanity has to offer. He feels no remorse for those he kills, as he sees them as freed and at their true potential.
Karthus was a tally-man of Kindred and, he still wears the vestments and carries the staff, which he still etches every time he 'releases' a mortal soul from life.
The Deathsinger
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Karthus
Mentioned: Kindred
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Burial at Sea
The sea was mirror-smooth and dark. A pirate's moon hung low on the horizon as it had for the last six nights. Not so much as a whisper of wind stirred the air, only that damned dirge carried from who knew where. Vionax had sailed the oceans around Noxus long enough to know that seas like this only ever presaged ill-fortune. She stood on the Darkwill's foredeck, training her spyglass on the far ocean, searching for anything she could use to plot their position.
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Short Story
Attack of the Demon Poros
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Pentakill: Smite and Ignite
The era of metal has begun.
Starring: Karthus , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
The Dissonant Verses
By Ian St. Martin
I: Herald of the Forbidden God
Starring: Viego
Mentioned: Karthus
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Cutting a burning swath through the darkest places of the world, Kassadin knows his days are numbered. Though once a notorious adventurer, he had chosen to live anonymously and raise a family among the nomad tribes of Shurima—until the day his daughter was claimed by the Void. Kassadin vowed to bring her back, combining a number of arcane artifacts and forbidden technologies for the struggle ahead. His precautions were not enough, however, and these devices now only serve to slow the insidious corruption that ravages his body... but he will gladly pay that price, if only he can save her...
Kassadin began his life as nothing more than a lowly orphan, hired as bait for the merchant caravans of the Great Sai to distract the predators of the lands away from the more important goods they transported. But to the surprise of many, Kassadin survived every predator attack and instead of being hired as bait, he started being hired as a guide.
He spent many years exploring ancient ruins and guiding his employers through the Great Sai, and it was here finally gained his name; “Kas sai a dyn?” or “whom does the desert know?”, often shortened to Kassadin due to his employers inexperience in the language of Shurima . It was through this line of work where he wandered into Zirima where he fell in love. Kassadin and his new wife decided to settle down, south in the rocky canyons, and the two of them had a daughter .
Though he had a wife and daughter, work still required him to travel very far away, always bringing exciting tales back with him. One day though, on his way home from Piltover , he spotted some terrified, fleeing survivors speaking of a terror that ruined their homes, the maw of the underworld that opened up to devour everything. Kassadin hurried home as fast as his mount could travel, but when he arrived there was nothing left but rubble and ash.
After the death of his wife and daughter, and the total ruin of his home, Kassadin fell into a deep depression, spending years drowning his sorrows in Zirima. That was until he heard of some new unspeakable horror bellow the earth and sacrifices being made in its name, by an unholy prophet . He knew what happened to Icathia and he could not let such utter devestation happen to the rest of Shurima.
He made a vow to himself and his dead wife and child to avenge their deaths by destroying this prophet beckoning the void. Kassadin is well traveled and knows he needs to be as well equiped as possible, so he set off on one last journey to arm himself with the most arcane and esoteric equipment from all over Valoran . He equiped himself with Zaunite tech, got blessed by Ionian spirit-healers then lastly stole the Nether Blade of Horok , the bladed gauntlet of the first Ascended to fight against the void. His last stop now was Icathia where he would have his vengeance, no matter what.
Now Kassadin wanders what was formerly Icathia, killing anything the Void throws at him, his flesh, mind and spirit slowly corrupting from the dangerous artifacts he carries and from the corrupting nature of the Void, but his resolve unshaking.
Kassadin's body has been heavily modified . His skin has turned a sickly shade of blue, if that even is his skin anymore. On his head he wears a Zaunite helmet made in a deep metal with purple embellishments and with two large metal horns on either side. The helmet itself resembes a gas mask with two metal tubes that go from the helmet to Kassadin's back. He wears two large spiked shoulder pads in the same metal and with the same embellishments as his helmet, he also wears two metal gauntlets in the same style. Other than that he is shirtless, exposing his blue skin. And to cover his lower body he wears a dark purple skirt which reaches down and covers his feet. On his right arm he wields the Nether Blade of Horok .
Kassadin has become a cold and nihilistic man. He is fixated on delivering justice, but equally wishes for the monsters of the void to strike him down so he may join his wife and child. Either way, he will defy the Void until the very end.
Kassadin and Malzahar are polar opposites. While Kassadin tries to fight the void, Malzahar tries to bring it to Runeterra, therefore Kassadin has sworn to kill him.
The Void Walker
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Kassadin
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Malzahar
Short Story
Whom Does the Desert Know?
By Laurie Goulding
Shurima is dying. I do not think she will rise again.
Daughter of the Void
By Michael McCarthy
Starring: Kai'Sa
Mentioned: Kassadin
By Jared Rosen
“Okay,” Kai’Sa pants...
Starring: Bel'Veth , Kai'Sa
Mentioned: Kassadin , Taliyah
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Interview: Inside K/DA
By PopRox , Indu Reddy
PopRox chats with K/DA on their style, personal life, and success after POP/STARS.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa
We're Taking Over.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Decisive in judgment and lethal in combat, Katarina is a Noxian assassin of the highest caliber. Eldest daughter to the legendary General Du Couteau , she made her talents known with swift kills against unsuspecting enemies. Her fiery ambition has driven her to pursue heavily guarded targets, even at the risk of endangering her allies—but no matter the mission, Katarina will not hesitate to execute her duty amid a whirlwind of serrated daggers.
Katarina Du Couteau was born to one of the most respected families in Noxus. While her younger sister Cassiopeia took after their politically brilliant mother , Katarina studied the way of the blade under her father's legacy as the empire's greatest assassin. But the wily General Marcus was a harsh teacher with many pupils, and kinship held no bearing on his high expectations. Katarina spent her childhood in intense training: climbing the tallest towers after dark, handling dual blades with equal precision, and even building tolerance against various poisons used by assassins. This was her contribution to the empire, and she yearned for the opportunity to demonstrate her talents and win her honor.
Talon attempts to kill Katarina.
One day on the western front, Katarina was tasked with assassinating an enemy line officer known as Demetrius. Seeing the mark as a waste of her talents, Katarina would instead ensure a swift victory by eliminating the enemy commander. This proved to be a terrible judgment, as Demetrius took charge of the enemy forces and killed dozens of Noxian soldiers, nearly costing the general his life. Furious with his daughter's disobedience, Marcus sent out his adoptive son and protégé, the assassin known as Talon . Their battle was brief but left in a draw, with a scar over her left eye that would forever remind them both of failure. Six hours later, Katarina presented Demetrius's severed head as recognition of her failure. Humbled by the consequences, Katarina knew she had lost her father's favor, but hoped to someday redeem herself in both his eyes and the empire.
Four years after the coup against Emperor Boram Darkwill , Marcus mysteriously went missing, and the family assumed he had been killed. Still, as a supporter of the new regime, Katarina made certain to make her skills known to Swain , and rose to status as one of his most esteemed assassins. She eliminated Swain's political rivals over the years, cutting down rogue warbands and silencing those who continued to fight for Darkwill. Katarina believed that the old order needed to make way for a brighter future, without tyrants or prejudice robbing the Noxian people of the chance to thrive.
Katarina fighting Garen.
One day, Katarina is abruptly stolen away to somewhere private. The assailant reveals himself to be her father Marcus, who had in fact faked his own death on Swain's order. He tells of his undercover work in Demacia , and that Swain changed the plan to give Katarina her biggest assignment yet: a covert assassination of King Jarvan III , as well as the noble Luxanna Crownguard , during the chaos of Sylas ' Mage Rebellion . Mistrustful of Swain, Marcus advised Katarina that the Grand General had betrayed them both and sent her on a suicide mission to ruin the standing of house Du Couteau. Still, Katarina decided to follow through, as her success would be undeniable merit against any potential persecution.
Upon finding Lux, Katarina decided against killing her, as she sympathized with the lady's rejection against her family and the current Demacian regime. Nonetheless, she judged Jarvan III to be both a tyrant and a traitor to his people, as he oppressed mages just because they had the strength to overthrow him. She killed the king and escaped undetected by the surviving Demacian guards, who then pinned the assassination on Sylas. However, her escape from the city was interrupted by Garen , who received a tip that she was a mage helping Sylas. The two engaged in a short but fierce fight that abruptly ended after they witnessed an explosion that signalled the start of riots. Seeing that they could not stay longer, the two parted ways and Katarina re-focused on trying to escape Demacia.
With the guards distracted by the uprising, Katarina hijacked a raptor rider to cross the city walls. But a rogue arrow struck and killed the rider, sending her plummeting into the forest. It is revealed that Captain Jaredan was responsible for the shot; he was part of the undercover assassination, but had secret orders to sabotage Katarina.
Katarina miraculously survived the fall, but one of her daggers had shattered. She quickly retreated back to the hideout in Noxus to be nursed back to health by her friend Drann . She also noticed Jaredan waiting outside, and realized that circumstances may not be what she thought. Whoever wanted to kill Katarina had to be well informed of her family's secrets. With her father still out and about, she returned home to confront the only suspect.
Swain saves Katarina.
Stirring her brother out of bed, Katarina's trust grew awry when she caught the faint scent of her father's perfume, and she immediately attempted to subdue him. Talon reveals that he helped fake Marcus' death in an elaborate plan to replace Katarina and topple Swain. Before he could deal the fatal blow with Katarina's dagger, she took her broken dagger and cut his eye. After this, Katarina decides to spare Talon. As she turns to leave, she assured she never held a grudge against him for scarring her face and wished that he would break off from father's legacy towards his own path. She left the house vowing that she to kill Talon if he chose not to heed her advice.
The next morning, Katarina and Drann performed a blood-bonding ritual to link her to her new blades, enabling her to teleport to the weapons and vice versa. Intent on protecting Swain from her father, she headed towards the Immortal Bastion. When they meet, Marcus reveals that he orchestrated to sabotage Katarina's mission in Demacia, and that the true target of Swain's orders was not Lux, but himself.
A final battle ensues, shrouded in smoke and lasting for an arduous duration. In a desperate attempt to finish the job, Marcus decided to sacrifice himself by priming a devastating Wolf's Maw explosive. Katarina swiftly flew her dagger to knock the charge from his hand, and threw her blade as far as she could into the air, intending to teleport to it with the device before it could detonate. However, Swain unexpectedly intervened, seizing the explosive and redirecting the impending blast toward Marcus, instantly incinerating him. In the aftermath of the battle, Swain congratulated Katarina on her assignment, revealing it was a test to find his failsafe; the only person who could kill him if his demon would take control of him one day. Fully embracing her role as Swain's assassin, she eliminated Jaredan two months later in Northern Freljord .
Katarina is portrayed as a slender woman with an athletic and feminine physique, she has peach skin, green eyes, and red lips, with her most prominent features being her long bright red hair and a scar on her left eye.
She usually wears a revealing assassin uniform made of black and gray leather and latex which reveals her abdomen with several dark blue Noxian tattoos, she wears leather heeled boots and a small leather jacket.
As heir to a house of assassins, Katarina had pursued her father's approval for many years but always remained short of his standards. Having lost the respect of her parents, Katarina developed her own ideals as a noxian. Rather than chase legacies, she would use her skills to make a Noxus that she believes in. She is a firm believer in individual merit, and recognizes the benefit of having allies, especially those of different skillsets. Therefore, she finds mutual appreciation under the Trifarix.
As an assassin, Katarina is an agile fighter, can quickly plan her strategies, and has a keen eye for the subtlest of clues. Behind these instincts, her personal code of conduct dictates how she would kill targets based on how honorable she regards them, also shows a somewhat flirtatious personality with Garen.
In contrast to Cassiopeia , Talon is the adopted son of Marcus Du Couteau. In youth, Talon was tasked with a mission by Katarina's father: to eliminate her. However, Katarina miraculously survived Talon's attempt, emerging from the encounter with a distinct scar across her left eye. This encounter created an unexpected bond between them, as both had failed in their respective missions.
After their encounter, he adopted a nonchalant demeanor towards Katarina, assuming the role of her composed younger brother. Behind this facade, however, he secretly conspired with his adopted father to overthrow Jericho Swain , who had recently ascended to power. Talon nursed a deep-seated jealousy towards Katarina, who had been entrusted with the symbolic daggers of House Du Couteau, a clear indication of the rightful heir.
Upon revealing his intentions, Katarina responded with unexpected empathy. She understood that Talon was merely a puppet, obediently carrying out her father's orders without question. The failed assassination attempt, rather than fostering animosity, prompted Katarina to reflect on her family dynamics. As she departed from Talon, she wished for him to break free from her father's control and forge his own destiny. However, with a resolute warning, she made it clear that if Talon remained shackled by her father's influence, she would be compelled to bring an end to him herself.
Katarina interacts very little with her younger sister, Cassiopeia , since both live in different worlds. While Katarina was taught by her father, pushing her to learn the way of the blade, Cassiopeia took after their politically brilliant mother.
Katarina and her father, Marcus Du Couteau , had a very strained relationship. According to Marcus, her daughter always seemed to fail him as an assassin. To him, she was to brash and killed with a sense of passion and not with a cold, mercilessness he believed was necessary for an assassin. Because of this he ordered a young Talon to kill his firstborn daughter. After multiple attempts on her life failed, she confronted her father. She told the general she had considered taking his head instead, but eventually decided—as much as she hated to admit it—that he had done the right thing in ordering her death. She had failed. Not just as an assassin, or as a daughter, but as a Noxian. She knew she had lost her father’s favor, and could never regain it. He would raise others in her place, simply to spite her. Still, she vowed to redeem herself, no matter the cost—to rededicate her talents to the empire, and to become the sinister weapon she always intended to be.
After her father mysteriously disappeared in 993 AN , she starts taking orders from Swain . Three years later, he reveals himself to her, saying that Swain is going to send her on a mission to Demacia to die. After not only completing her mission successfully but coming out of it alive, she returns to Noxus . Realising that her father is trying to kill Swain, she immediatly moved to stop him.
During their final confrontation, she says to her father that he always wanted her to fail, because he was afraid she would grow to be better then him. As their battle came to a climax, Marcus tried to take both Katarina and Swain with him by using an explosive known as the "Wolf's Maw". Before it could detonate, Swain arrived to redirect the explosion to Marcus, instantly incinerating him.
Katarina interacts very little with her mother, Soreana Du Couteau , since both live in different worlds. While Katarina was taught by her father, pushing her to learn the way of the blade, her mother focused her attention on to her younger sister, Cassiopeia .
Katarina remembering her encounter with Garen
Encountering each other in the midst of the chaos during Sylas' Mage Rebellion in Demacia, Garen, acting on misinformation, confronts Katarina under the belief that she is aiding Sylas. After mentioning she saved his sister from capture, she suggested Garen should do the same. After some fierce clashes of steel, an explosion stops their battle. Both combantants agree that they don't have time for their scuffle. Garen and Katarina have a small moment, bonding over their shared grievances with their younger siblings. Before she leaves, Katarina says to Garen she sees a great future for Garen and his sister.
While it is unclear that Garen has any intrest in Katarina, Katarina has some intrest in him. During her bonding ritual with her weapons, she focused on a moment when she was not trying to figure out every angle, where she just felt something and connected. The moment she chose was her first encounter with Garen, smiling faintly.
Assigned the mission to assassinate Lux and King Jarvan III in Demacia, Katarina deviates from her orders after recognizing Lux's dissent from the corrupt Demacian hierarchy. Sympathizing with Lux's plight, seeing as both women had been rejected by their families. Katarina spares her life. Katarina also notes that she thinks Lux is a threat to the Demacian hierarchy and would actually make a good Noxian.
Initially aligning herself with Swain after the coup that toppled Grand General Boram Darkwill, Katarina becomes one of Swain's most devoted assassins, eliminating political rivals and enforcing the new order. Despite a moment of mistrust when she learns of her father's faked death and Swain's alleged betrayal, Katarina chooses to continue working for Swain to secure her family's safety. During Katarina's battle against her father, Marcus Du Couteau, Swain, recognizing Katarina as his failsafe, intervenes to prevent her sacrifice, cementing her role as his trusted assassin.
The proprietor of a teahouse where Katarina seeks refuge and counsel, Drann, is a close friend and ally of Katarina's. She bound Katarina to her weapons with blood magic. This bond allows Katarina to teleport to her weapons. Drann is a stabilizing force in Katarina's otherwise painful and complicated life. She offers Katarina guidance, a sense of understanding and provides her with a source of solace.
The Sinister Blade
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Katarina
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Marcus Du Couteau , Soreana Du Couteau , Talon
Katarina: Issue 1
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Katarina , Khogan , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Talon
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Katarina: Issue 2
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Katarina: Issue 3
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Katarina
Mentioned: Arrika , Drann , Jarvan III , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 4
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Talon
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Jarvan III , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Zed
Katarina: Issue 5
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
Short Story
Message on a Blade's Edge
By Michael Yichao
An assassin's blades are but one of her weapons. Know your mark. Know the killing ground. Anything can be a tool to secure the kill.
Mentioned: Swain
The Name of the Blade
By Ian St. Martin
There is copper in the air.
Starring: Katarina , Talon
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
The Serpent's Embrace
Starring: Cassiopeia
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Sivir , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
Enemy of my Enemy
Two sworn enemies discover a newfound respect for each other when they're forced to put their differences aside and work together against a common enemy.
Starring: Garen , Katarina
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Represent Your House
Which side will you choose?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ezreal , Jayce , Katarina , Lux
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Born to a Targonian Aspect at the height of the Rune Wars, Kayle honored her mother's legacy by fighting for justice on wings of divine flame. She and her twin sister Morgana were the protectors of Demacia for many years—until Kayle became disillusioned with the repeated failings of mortals, and abandoned this realm altogether. Still, legends are told of her punishing the unjust with her fiery swords, and many hope that she will one day return...
Kayle and her twin sister Morgana were born on Mount Targon during the height of the Rune Wars to Kilam and Mihira Mihira , the current Aspect of Justice. Due to Mihira ascending while pregnant, the sisters were born with a fraction of her celestial power. As the war raged on, Mihira's celestial power began to overshadow her personality and affections as she dedicated more and more of her time to her duties as an aspect. Fearing what Mihira was becoming, as well as the enemies drawn to her light, Kilam resolved to take their daughters to safety. He fled Targon with his children and they would sail to the land that would be known as Demacia .
The sisters grew to have distinct and clashing personalities. While Morgana was empathizing with the newly arrived refugees, Kayle argued about laws of the settlement because she knew the laws were meant to protect people.
One day, Mihira's sword would fell from the sky and clash into two. From that moment, feathered wings bursted from the sister's backs and remained, confirming the celestial magic would still remain inside them. In that moment, Kayle felt more connected to her mother than ever. While Morgana resented her gifts, Kayle embraced her new power. One day, the settlement was attacked, and the sisters flew to aid the people of Zeffira. While Kayle was busy dealing with the frontline attack, Morgana learned of a hidden wave of enemies attacking the city and left the frontlines to aid the citizens. After the battle Kayle, for a time, lost trust in her sister for leaving her on the battlefield. Since that day, they were hailed as the Winged Protectors.
Kayle and Morgana at the gates of ancient Demacia.
Kayle and Morgana put on their armors and helmets, and stood against an army before the city walls. They easily destroyed the first wave. Sensing the danger approaching in the skies, the Winged Protectors took flight without hesitation and engaged in a deadly battle with Aatrox , who managed to possess a new host. Aatrox was too powerful to be defeated physically for the sisters. As the last stand, Morgana left her sword behind, and stood against Aatrox, binding him with her chains of dark flame. Taking Morgana's sword, Kayle empowered her wings and sword with celestial flames and burned the mortal body of him, sealing Aatrox within his own blade.
Warriors flocked to Kayle's banner at Silvermere's Peak, where she founded a judicator order to enforce the law, and hunted down rebels and reavers with equal fervor. Kayle allowed Morgana to rehabilitate wrongdoers who appeared humble enough to admit their guilt. However, some people in the Judicator Order and especially Ronas, one of Kayle's ardent disciples, decided to arrest Morgana and her followers when Kayle was bringing justice upon a distant kingdom ruled by a cruel, unrighteous king. In an attempt to protect her followers, Morgana conjured magical chains of fire and bound him until he fell dead. His death led to an outbreak of violent riot in the settlement.
Kayle and Morgana fighting in the sky above Demacia.
When Kayle found out what happened, she became enraged and with her power she summoned divine fire to punish the sinners in the city and Ronas' killer. Morgana flew up to meet her, giving Kayle an ultimatum- if she wanted to smite these people, she should start with her sister. The two dueled in the sky, each matching the other’s terrible blows and striking the buildings beneath them to rubble, killing innocent people without realising. It seemed that one of them was eventually going to win but Morgana faltered because she and Kayle heard their father's screams and stopped fighting. Their father was mortally wounded, Morgana hurled her sword at Kayle through tears, and plunged to the surface like a meteorite to cradle her father.
She took her dying father in her arms, and in a sea of tears, cursed her heavenly inheritance for the destruction around her. A moment later, Kayle landed too, and between sobs Morgana asked her if the purification of mortals by smiting included her father. Kayle kept silent, grabbed Morgana's sword and thought about senseless violence that overtaken the city this day. Сrying because of loss, she soared into the heavens and flew to Mount Targon to find her mother, and swore that she would not allow emotions to dominate her,
She left Demacia to stand at her mother's side, and to seek for perfect, celestial clarity on Targon. Even though she has been absent from Demacia for many centuries, she has inspired Demacia's culture, law, and architecture. Many pray to the Protector in times of chaos, and hope that she might return, some pray that such a day will never come.
While spending time at Targon Prime, she met Mihira , the current Aspect of Justice and her long-gone mother. With time spent on Targon, she seems to become more moderate towards emotions and mortality and stopped denying them. She also continue to ascend herself and fight the world-threatening problems if needed. She also seems to help some Shurimans in need of Aspect of Justice's help. At some point she met Ryze and spent some time with him, as she calls him her old friend, but the details about it are missing.
For centuries, Morgana has tried to find her sister, and written down her findings on her journal. A Solari warrior reported a sighting of a winged creature on the peaks of the mountain, ascending higher. A wind mage said that a bright flame streaked through the air, spinning away faster and faster. A Demacian noble was convinced that the Winged Protector was still alive, so he sent out rider to track her. After decades, the riders found a single white feather beneath Targon. A Lunari child, in the middle of the night, said that he saw a winged ghost, flying around the mountain. Yet, his mother did not believe him.
Many centuries passed, Morgana heard a voice. A lonely, so distant prayer. She had no idea where it came from, but she was so sure that Kayle was praying to her. However, her prayers remained unanswered.
Kayle is a slim and relatively muscled woman with pale, slightly tanned skin, short cyan hair with a bang on the right side, burning sun-gold eyes with white pupils and pointy ears. She has four wings on her back and two wings on her waist that vary in cyan blue and light gold. She was ascended between her twenties and thirties, so her aging has stopped since then.
Kayle's clothing consists of a golden armor that covers most of her body and brown clothes. Kayle wore a helmet that covered her face when she was the Winged Protector, but after her journey to Targon and her ascension into a more powerful form, she stopped wearing it.
Kayle is an incarnation of justice. While her sister Morgana represents restorative justice and advocates for the repentant, Kayle represents retributive justice and punishes in the fair way possible those who committed crimes without mercy and without taking into account various factors about a person, such as motives, origin, social status, etc. Despite wanting to make the world more just and fighthing to protect innocents and righteous, her lack of empathy towards sinners and zeal makes her quite stoic and cold since she only seeks to punish sinners on an idealistic eye-to-eye level, without forgiveness. As she thinks it necessary for to protect people.
Kayle has big zeal towards bringing of justice and punishing evil in all its forms, no matter if it will be common criminals, tyrants kings or world threats. She is very self-proud of her destiny and occupation as Aspect of Justice and constantly try to transcend even more and receive perfect celestial clarity about justice. While she seems to be cold towards most persons, especially towards sinners, she very much cares about her family and friends.
After duel between her and Morgana, she began rejecting her mortal and emotional parts, as she considered them main reason of this tragedy ever happen, and that became her emotional trauma. After traveling to Targon Prime and spending some time with Mihira, she seems to stop denying her emotions, probably thanks to Mihira's guidance and teachings, who approves Kayle's ideals, but don't want her to lose herself in them. Right now, she is continuing to fight evil, protect innocents and strives for constant improvement and self-ascension, and dreams of building a paradise for the just and glorious, sharing Mihira's ideals.
Both Kayle and are twin siblings, Kayle being the older of the two. During their living in Demacia, they were Winged Protectors and saved countless lives. Despite their diffirences, they always tried to work together and serve their noble goal. Their relationship soured after the event that lead to the death of their father, and they have big conflict both in attitude towards justice and focusing on Celestial/Human parts of themselves, but deep down they still love each other since they still need each other.
Mihira is Kayle's mother. She approves Kayle's noble ideals about justice and building better world for righteous, guiding her and caring about that she should not lose herself in her ambitions. Kayle extremely respects her mother, seeing her as the savior of the world and mentor. Mihira is biggest reason why Kayle has chosen the path of fighthing for justice and building a better world.
Kayle and Morgana defeated Aatrox during his attack on ancient Demacia City that they protected back in the days when they were Winged Protectors. Aatrox and Kayle having radically clashing personalities and hate each other.
Kayle considers Ryze as her old friend, as well as Ryze shows good attitude towards Kayle, but the details of their friendship are unknown.
Kayle knows about Xolaani's existence and seems to fight her at least once. In Darkin Saga alternative scenario, she faces her once again, with different possible outcomes, including smiting of Xolaani or Xolaani's possessing the celestial body of Mihira.
Sylas knows certain truths about the sisters and calls out their power during the events of Lux comics and Mageseeker .
The Righteous
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Kayle
Mentioned: Mihira , Morgana
Short Story
Canticle of the Winged Sisters
By Graham McNeill
Born beneath the vault of stars, one in Light, one in Shadow. Kayle and Morgana, Sisters by Fate, joined hand in hand
Starring: Kayle , Morgana
In the Fires of Justice
But most fearful of all was the burning in her eyes, gleaming and grave with uncompromising wrath.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
Fragile Legacies
By Dana Luery Shaw
I was young and unafraid, heart aflame with the sort of righteousness that cast out all shadows of doubt, on the day I first met Barrett Buvelle.
Starring: Eldred , Jarvan III , Quinn , Sona , Tianna
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan IV , Kayle , Morgana
Lux: Issue 4
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
The Despoiler of Havenfall
By Michael Haugen Wieske
The fog had come in swiftly, eclipsing the afternoon sun over the crossroads.
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Kayle , Viego
Starring: Morgana
Mentioned: Kayle , Mihira
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A peerless practitioner of lethal shadow magic, Shieda Kayn battles to achieve his true destiny—to one day lead the Order of Shadow into a new era of Ionian supremacy. He wields the sentient darkin weapon Rhaast , undeterred by its creeping corruption of his body and mind. There are only two possible outcomes: either Kayn bends the weapon to his will... or the malevolent blade consumes him completely, paving the way for the destruction of all Runeterra .
Noxian by birth, Shieda Kayn was conscripted as a child soldier like many others. When he was no more than ten, he and his comrades were ordered to attack the province of Bahrl in Ionia . He and other young soldiers made up the vanguard of the attack. While Kayn’s young comrades fled or were cut down by the defenders before the Noxian regulars came in from the flank, Kayn showed no fear and survived to see the end of the battle.
Zed and his followers arrived on the battleground two days later. There, they found Kayn on the ground, leveling a sickle at Zed. The Master of Shadows saw potential in the boy and welcomed him into the Yánléi .
After joining the order, the young Kayn was given food and a home to stay. Growing up training as an acolyte of the order, Kayn was able to master all the weapons given to him while other acolytes spent years training with a single weapon. By drinking the Tears of the Shadow, Kayn gained the ability to cloak himself in the shadows to stealthily assassinate enemies. He was able to spread fear among the survivors through his swift kills, using fear as his weapon. As Kayn's power and reputation grew, he gained hubristic ambitions that one day he could be more powerful than even Zed.
Kayn was later sent on a mission to Noxus as his final test: to procure a Darkin scythe recently uncovered in the Noxian city of Vindor to stop the weapon from being used against the Ionians. Accompanied by his fellow acolyte Nakuri, he used his shadow magic to sneak up on the three guards defending the noxtoraa, killing two of them before intimidating the last one, whom was killed by Nakuri. After killing several more Noxian soldiers, Kayn approached the weapon where he heard the Darkin Rhaast call to him from within the scythe. One of the Noxians snatched the scythe in desperation, and began to swing it uncontrollably at his comrades as Rhaast's corruption took over. Realizing that the legends were true, Kayn, using a shadow technique, possessed the soldier's body, where he witnessed the atrocities that Rhaast inflicted over millennia. However, instead of destroying it as ordered, he was tempted to wield the Darkin for himself. Ignoring Nakuri's pleas, Kayn took hold of Rhaast and underwent the same corruption, but Kayn was able to resist his will and control his enhanced power. After a final struggle against Nakuri, Kayn killed his fellow acolyte. Since then, Kayn now duels Rhaast over control over his own body, until one of them wins and seizes control.
These scenarios are not canon to the official timeline, but future possibilities that have been hinted at in the lore and gameplay.
Kayn is a young man with a thin, muscular build. He has black hair with a blue streak at the right side and a long braid on the back. He wears nothing but large, baggy pants with a rope around it and leather boots. Due to Rhaast's partial assimilation, his left arm has become bright red muscle with grey plating covering his shoulder, left pectoral and left eye. He has a blue tattoo spiraling around his right wrist. His right eye has a yellow iris, while his corrupted left eye has a dark red sclera and a glowing red iris.
As the Shadow Assassin , he now has pale white skin, glowing pupilless eyes and lacks the corruption on his body. He has dark blue tattoos on his eyes, torso and arms. His braided hair has been replaced with long-flowing hair with a larger blue streak.
Molded by Noxian brutality and tempered in the Yánléi , Kayn carries a deep-seated resentment towards authority while harboring an unwavering confidence in his own abilities. His fearless demeanor masks a simmering anger and a burning desire to prove himself superior, both to his enemies and his mentors. Kayn's arrogance fuels his relentless pursuit of power, driving him to defy tradition and embrace the forbidden allure of the darkin, Rhaast . Yet, beneath his bravado lies a cunning intellect and a calculating nature, always seeking the most advantageous path towards dominating over both his foes and his destiny.
When Kayn was a child soldier, Zed saw the potential within him and recruited him to be a part of his order, feeding him and giving him a home. Kayn became Zed's favorite and most loyal disciple, trusting him enough to confide valuable information and hoping that Kayn would become the new leader of the Order of Shadow if something were to happen to him. Kayn refused to betray him when Kusho urged him to, because of how he saved him from a hopeless fate and gave him a new purpose in life. Despite his loyalty, Kayn's growing arrogance led him to believe that with Rhaast's power, he would even surpass Zed one day.
Kayn sees his wieldership of Rhaast as being his destiny, risking the Darkin's corruption to unlock his true potential. While Rhaast tries to manipulate him into embracing violence, Kayn defies him just as easily. They both fight against each other over control of his body, with Kayn intending to fully overpower Rhaast and claim his power for himself.
Kayn, along with Zed and other members of the Shadow Order, were attacked by Jhin.
Kayn may have a crush on Akali. She knows Kayn and finds him hot but too crazy for her taste.
Kusho manipulated Kayn into serving him and ordered him to kill Zed, but Kayn remained loyal to Zed due to the latter being his mentor whom gave him his new purpose in life.
Royce sympathizes with Kayn due to them both growing up as child soldiers of Noxus, considering Kayn as a "brother in blood".
Kayn fought against Master Yi and his Wuju disciples to obtain the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). that they were guarding.
The Shadow Reaper
By Michael McCarthy
Starring: Kayn
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Rhaast , Zed
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Blade of Millenia
Kayn stood confidently in the shadow of the noxtoraa, surrounded by dead soldiers, and smiled at the irony. These triumphal arches of dark stone were raised to honor the strength of Noxus—to instill fear and to demand fealty from all who passed beneath them. Now this one was a tombstone, a monument to false strength and arrogance, and a symbol of the fallen warriors' own fear turned against them.
Mentioned: Rhaast , Zed
The Path of Shadows
Will he deliver death with a whisper or make the world scream?
Mentioned: Rhaast
Zed: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed is lured back to a village where he and Shen once encountered a great evil, a brutal killer from their past resurfaces: the magically gifted psychopath Khada Jhin!
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Zed: Issue 2
Zed is under attack from all sides! He and his band of assassins are ambushed by the twisted Khada Jhin! In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 3
In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 4
Khada Jhin's master plan comes together in a most explosive and deadly manner! But even if Zed and Shen survive, they might just kill one another! Only one will be left standing by the end of this issue!
Zed: Issue 5
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Zed: Issue 6
It's all led to this: Zed and Shen, united in a final battle with the psychopathic murderer Khada Jhin! And the life of the captive Akali hangs in the balance! Then--Shen and Zed's greatest enemy will stand revealed…and you'll never guess who it is! Shocking secrets about the past AND the present will be unveiled…and whoever survives will be left to pick up the pieces!
The Master of Shadows
By Michael Luo , Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Zed
Mentioned: Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
By Graham McNeill
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Music Video
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Short Story
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
Solo Darius
It's easy crushing top lane when you're SoloRenektonOnly. It’s On.
Starring: Darius , Kayn , Thresh , Vi
Spooky Jinx
Sometimes your worst nightmare has a nightmare. Just ask KayPea. It's On.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn
By Dan Abnett
Ordinal Shieda Kayn slings out to the unremarkable edgeworld of Ionan, hot on the trail of a band of millitant Templars. These enemies of the state were clearly looking for something important...but what?
Starring: Kayn , Rhaast , Sona
Mentioned: Jarvan IV
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 3
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The longest-standing member of the ancient Kinkou Order , the yordle Kennen is the first and only Heart of the Tempest. For centuries, he has used diplomacy—and force—to maintain the sacred balance in his adopted home of Ionia . Lightning fast and bearing the wisdom of a long and storied life, Kennen works with the Eye of Twilight, Shen, to protect the fragile harmony of the First Lands with a whirling storm of shuriken and devastating electrical energy.
Unlike many of his kind, Kennen felt a dissonance within the vibrant chaos of his homeland, Bandle City . Seeking harmony and balance, Kennen ventured forth from the spirit realm millennia ago, drawn by an insatiable curiosity that led him to traverse the material realm.
His journey eventually brought him to the serene First Lands , where ancient wars that none now remember had scarred the landscape, leaving behind a people striving to rebuild amidst the echoes of conflict. Kennen found solace among the inhabitants of the First Lands , fascinated by their relentless pursuit of balance and tranquility. Over time, he became deeply woven into the fabric of First Lands, forsaking his ties to Bandle City as he embraced the mortal realm and its inhabitants.
As Kennen delved deeper into the affairs of the First Lands, now known as Ionia , he encountered malevolent entities from the spirit realm threatening the delicate equilibrium of the land. Alone, he valiantly battled these disturbances, but soon realized that mere combat was not enough to address the root cause of imbalance. It was then that he discovered the Kinkou , a fledgling order dedicated to preserving harmony between the realms.
Recognizing the need for a unifying force within the order, Kennen proposed himself as an arbiter, a bridge between the introspective Eye of Twilight and the warlike Fist of Shadow. With his affability and diplomacy, he became the Kinkou's first Heart of the Tempest, working alongside the Eye and the Fist to pass judgment and maintain equilibrium.
In the tumultuous aftermath of the Noxian invasion, as Ionia teetered on the brink of collapse, the Kinkou found themselves torn apart by internal strife and external threats. Despite Kennen's efforts to guide the order through the chaos, the shadow of betrayal loomed large as Zed , a former acolyte, orchestrated a coup.
In the darkest hour of the Kinkou, Kennen stood steadfast, offering counsel to the new Eye of Twilight, Shen , as he grappled with the burdens of leadership. He urged the Fist of Shadow, Mayym, to recognize Akali , his protege, as a potential successor. Yet even his wisdom could not prevent Akali's eventual departure from the order, disillusioned by its perceived failure to confront Ionia's enemies.
Kennen receives an urgent plea for help from the acolytes of the Temple of Raishai , on the southern coast of Zhyun , whose temple has been corrupted by an unknown malevolent force . As he races through varied landscapes, Kennen reflects on the weight of this mission, especially since it involves saving his fellow Kinkou members.
Arriving at the temple, Kennen discovers that the corruption lies not in the physical structure but within the acolytes themselves. They have become vessels for dark entities, fueled by their anguish and despair over the Kinkou's past decisions of non-intervention during times of conflict. Despite their loyalty to the order, their unresolved emotions have allowed these malevolent forces to take hold.
In a poignant moment, Kennen confronts the acolytes, gently revealing the truth of their condition and offering them a path to healing by releasing them from their Kinkou duties. However, some of the acolytes resist, seeing this as a dishonorable act and challenging Kennen. Using his lightning powers, Kennen incapacitates those who resist, not with the intent to harm but to break through their defenses and help them understand the necessity of leaving the order for their own well-being. Through his actions, Kennen not only dispels the immediate threat but also offers the acolytes a chance to find peace and balance once more.
As the former acolytes depart, Kennen reflects on the bittersweet nature of their departure, knowing that it was necessary for their own good and the greater harmony of the world. Despite the sorrow of parting ways, Kennen is resolved to carry their story forward, honoring their sacrifice and ensuring that their struggles are not forgotten.
Kennen is a cream furred yordle with light brown hair and deep blue eyes. Usually he dresses in a purple ninja outfit with golden details.
Kennen is a paradoxical being, due to his nature as a Yordle. Simultaneously an ancient being and a unaging spirit, Kennen can shift from a wise master to excitable and childlike in an instant.
When he first arrived on the Mortal Plane, Kennen became fascinated with humans and how they managed to do so much in so little time. After joining the Kinkou Order, Kennen took the responsability of recording the history of the Kinkou, and serving as the mediator of conflicts between the Mortal and Spiritual Planes.
Kennen, Akali , and Shen are members of the Kinkou Order . Like Shen , his duty is to preserve balance in Ionia .
Kennen was one of Akali's mentors, teaching her shuriken techniques, and emphasizing speed and agility over strength. He convinced her mother Mayym, the previous Fist of Shadow, to choose her as the successor. Kennen and Akali assisted Irelia alongside Yasuo and Karma in her resistance in a seaside village against the Noxian army that includes Sion .
The Kinkou Order is at war with Zed and his Shadow Order . Kennen is willing to forgive the Master of Shadows should he be willing to seek redemption. [ 1 ]
Kennen is a friend of Teemo .
The Heart of the Tempest
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Kennen
Mentioned: Akali , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story
Between Light and Shadows
Kennen had not slowed since setting off from the Great Temple of Koeshin.
Mentioned: Akali , Shen
Magic Misadventures (Video)
Part Two of Ava’s adventure leads her through the enchanted forests of Ionia, where unseen dangers—and unlikely friends—lurk in the shadows.
Starring: Ahri , Ava , Book of Thresholds , Kennen
The Bow, and the Kunai
The air of southern Shon-Xan was rife with raw magic.
Starring: Akali , Kennen , Shen
Mentioned: Kusho , Zed
A Bandle Scout Mission Journal
Another Bandle Scout mission badge complete.
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Corki , Kennen , Lulu , Tristana , Von Yipp
The Rogue Assassin
By Michael McCarthy
Starring: Akali
Mentioned: Kennen , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Separate, but never parted, Kindred represents the twin essences of death. Lamb's bow offers a swift release from the mortal realm for those who accept their fate. Wolf hunts down those who run from their end, delivering violent finality within his crushing jaws. Though interpretations of Kindred's nature vary across Runeterra , every mortal must choose the true face of their death.
As a spirit who is closer to a force of nature than a living being, it is difficult to tell how Kindred came to be who they are today. However, one of the many legends surrounding the origins of the Kindred tell of 'a pale man with dark hair' (Runeterra's own Grim Reaper ) who was 'very lonely' and so split himself 'right down the middle' so he 'would always have a friend'. Assuming there is some fact to this tale, one can extrapolate that his emotions (materialized in his dark hair) became Wolf, while his rationale (materialized in his pale self) became Lamb.
Kindred is an entity, with two distinct aspects and appearances:
Lamb, as her name would suggest, looks like a sheep/lamb with pale fur and lamb's legs and feet. She doesn't wear clothes, her body is covered in white fur. The most distinctive ornament on her attire is the "wolf" mask which has a dark color. She carries with her a mystical bow.
Wolf, as his name would suggest, has the appearance of a spectral wolf with dark fur and only the head being visible. He wears no clothes, the rest of his body is covered in a long, spectral dark veil. The most distinctive ornament on his attire is the "lamb" mask which is white in color.
In the beginning, Kindred was a single being, isolated from the others due to their nature as a god of death. Lonely and craving companionship, they took an axe and cut themself in half dividing them in two beings, Lamb and Wolf. Both deeply attached to each other.
Lamb is the calm marksman that swiftly and painlessly ends the life of those that accept death by shooting them down with a single well aimed arrow, if they run away from their fate, they will find themselves in the maw of Wolf. Lamb appears to be Kindred's decision maker often the one pointing Wolf towards their goal and is often the one explaining the emotions of others to Wolf. Despite being calmer and less prone to violence than Wolf, Lamb is noticeably more apathetic towards others.
Wolf is the bestial half of the Kindred, representing a violent death. Those who will not fall to Lamb's arrows doom themselves to Wolf's jaws as he goes on the chase. Always hungry, he feels emotion but does not truly understand it - the counterpart to Lamb's impassive knowledge of feelings. The Kindred stalk the world, bringing peaceful death to those who will fall by Lamb. All who do not make one more chase for Wolf.
Fiddlesticks an equally ancient entity, is one of the only champions to refer to Kindred prior to their split, calling out to Kindred as the Link ▶️ "Grey man..." This would 'explain' why the Kindred are two halves of a whole and why one has what the other lacks (Lamb's cold reason, Wolf's hot instinct).
Lamb and Wolf (or any other 2 forms of Kindred) consider each other the only friend. In Spirit Bonds , it was implied certain parts of the Grey Man still exist somewhere in the Spirit Realm.
As a god of deaths, Kindred is related to all other representations of deaths in Runeterra. Legends say Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). created Kindred. While it's unknown how true the story is, both Lamb and Wolf call her their mother. In Finishing Soates , it is revealed once the Kindred are forgotten (or should all things have died out), Lamb and Wolf will kill each other, while Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). will take away what's left.
After the tally-men of Kindred collected Karthus sisters' bodies, as was custom in the parts of Noxus where they lived, Karthus followed them, asking them questions along the way. The tally-men soon accepted Karthus into their ranks, first as a grave digger, then pyre builder, then a corpse collector. Eventually, Karthus worked in the temple of the tally-men, tending to the sick in their final moments. he still wears the vestments and carries the staff, which he still etches every time he 'releases' a mortal soul from life.
The Eternal Hunters
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Kindred
Short Story
A Good Death
By Matthew Dunn , Alison Hawkes
All Kindred Eve
Little Lamb? Yes, dear Wolf, o' companion mine, My darkest friend in all of time?
Finishing Soates
Tarnold knew the performance was doomed when all his playwright’s tricks were exhausted.
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
Forest for the Trees
The battle spilled over like a feast before them. Such delicious life—so many to end, so many to hunt! Wolf paced in the snow while Lamb danced lithely from sword edge to spear tip, the red-blooded butchery never staining her pale coat.
Listen to their Tale
Lamb, tell me a story.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
A Death Knot
By Odin Austin Shafer
Sejuani slammed the axe into the tree's trunk.
Starring: Sejuani
Mentioned: Kindred
Art is Life
By Graham McNeill
Nights in Noxus were never silent.
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: Galio , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Mordekaiser
Beyond the Garden
With the arrival of the Spirit Blossom Festival, a magical fawn musters the courage to venture out and uncover the mystery behind her ailing forest.
Starring: Lillia
Mentioned: Kindred , Riven , Teemo
Dead of Winter
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Ezreal's Field Notes
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
By Dana Luery Shaw
Many had feared that the spirit blossoms would never return to Ionia, a sign of the imbalance still permeating the land and its people.
Starring: Ahri
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
The Curse of the Sad Mummy
By Christian Linke
Every child in Valoran has heard the tale before. About the cursed mummy boy who felt his heart no more.
Starring: Amumu
The Deathsinger
Starring: Karthus
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
The Principles of Strength
My name is Alyssa Roshka Gloriana val-Lokan. For almost two millennia, my ancestors ruled the Delverhold as kings.
Starring: Darius , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , Kindred
The Shuttered Manse
She felt the thief coming closer with every careful step he took.
Starring: Elise , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Kindred , Rammus , Swain
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The Voice from the Hearth
No one knew who lit the fire, but we saw the plume of smoke from far away.
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Kindred , Volibear
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Rise of the Elements
Starring: Azir , Kindred , Ornn , Warwick
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
The Blade Dancer: Issue 2
Starring: Irelia , Karma
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A warrior as fearless as he is ornery, the yordle Kled embodies the furious bravado of Noxus . Many claim Kled has fought in every campaign the warhosts have waged, acquired every military title, and never once backed down from a fight. Though the truth of the matter is often questionable, one part of his legend is always the same: charging into battle on his un-trusty steed, Skaarl , Kled fights to protect what's his... and takes whatever else he can get.
Kled is a stereotypical hillbilly, with a distaste for "city folk" and a fierce sense of independence from society. Paranoid and territorial, Kled views all of Noxus as his property, and will gladly kill anyone he views as a trespasser. Though Kled doesn't answer to the Trifarix , he has fought alongside and inspired Noxian forces with his fearless and violent attitude for many centuries, and has been decorated with many honors. Because of his military titles (which may or may not be made up), Kled takes pride in his accomplishments and uses them as a means to prove his superiority over others.
Kled is very unfriendly, cursing often and is prone to violent outbursts and shouting. Kled shows a greedy side with his insistence on claiming land, and often places signs marking "Property of Kled" whenever he thinks something is his. Because of his short temper, he constantly berates his Drakalops steed, Skaarl , for her cowardly and unreliable nature. However, Kled does have a soft spot for his untrusty steed, and is overjoyed whenever she returns to help him in battle. Because of his chaotic nature, others often wonder if Kled is mentally-unstable.
Kled fought together with Sion back when Sion still lived, but doesn't think much of the new undead abomination.
Kled considers everyone (including himself, bizarrely) his rival and he sees Skaarl as his only friend. [ 1 ]
The Cantankerous Cavalier
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Kled , Skaarl
The Reunion
Another day on the northern plains. Prickly shrubs. Harsh winds. Killin' trespassers.
Short Story • 7 Minute Read
Where The Drakalops Roam
The Northern Steppes ain't the place for fancy undies and golden piss pots. It's tough land. Ain't nothing go here but barbarian raiders, poison grass, and harsh winds. To survive, you gotta eat rocks and crap lava. And I'm the toughest, meanest, killingest bastard in these parts. So I figure that makes these plains mine.
The Swift Scout
By River 'TenPaces' Jaffe , Elan 'Qulani' Stimmel
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Ava , Corki , Kled , Tristana
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Imbued with the fire of the sun, Leona is a holy warrior of the Solari who defends Mount Targon with her Zenith Blade and the Shield of Daybreak . Her skin shimmers with starfire while her eyes burn with the power of the celestial Aspect within her. Armored in gold and bearing a terrible burden of ancient knowledge, Leona brings enlightenment to some, death to others.
Leona was born to Sunforgers Iasur and Melia within the Rakkor tribes of Mount Targon . Along with her younger siblings Aidonel and Kespina, Leona was raised since birth to honor the faith of the Solari , a religious sect of the Rakkor that highly venerated the sun.
Leona took to the Solari faith as easily as breathing, proving excellence in capability, willpower and devotion to the faith. Leona's faith and skill was so strong that her peers grew jealous, as nobody had doubts that she would one day become one of the elite Ra'Horak warriors of the Solari.
One day, the Solari took in a young orphan named Diana , who did not follow the Solari's values as easily and instead preferred the moon and the night. The Solari punished Diana constantly and called her a heretic for her blasphemy, but Leona felt pity for her and saw her as a lost soul searching for meaning.
One night, Diana confided a secret to Leona and spoke of the hidden alcove she discovered in the mountain, an ancient place where the walls depicted strange imagery of the moon and forgotten societies dressed in silver armor, proving that the sun and the moon were in fact not enemies at all. Noticing the heresy of what Diana described, she urged her to abandon this search and never speak of her discoveries, seeking to protect Diana from the brutal punishments of the other Solari if they heard of what she found. Diana reluctantly promised Leona that she'd abandon her discoveries and the two never spoke of it again as time passed, while Leona believed that her friend finally came to her senses.
On one fateful night, Leona caught a glimpse of Diana sneaking out of the temple. Though Leona's first instincts was to tell the elders, she instead decided to protect her friend from their punishments and set off to follow her into the night.
Following Diana, Leona ascended Mount Targon itself and endured a brutal trial unlike anything she'd ever faced before as every fiber of her being was tested to its limits. As she passed frozen bodies embedded into the mountain's slopes, Leona continued her journey and endured thanks to her training, willpower and drive to protect Diana.
Miraculously, to Leona's surprise, she finally reached the peak of the mountain after what felt like an eternity. Exhausted and beholding an uncanny landscape at the peak, she found Diana engulfed in a column of silver light, writhing in agony to Leona's horror. As she rushed to her aid, a second, golden column of light burst from the heavens, fell on her and enveloped her entire body.
Leona felt the sun's powers course through her and sear away her very being, but her indomitable will allowed her to retain her consciousness. Leona expected to be incinerated but instead emerged the new Host for the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , realizing that she was destined to protect the Solari in dire times to come.
Diana also emerged as a new Aspect of Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , now clad in silver armor that reflected the golden armor Leona found herself wearing. Diana was overjoyed that the two of them became Aspects together and begged Leona to join her on a new quest to find answers outside of the Solari faith, but Leona demanded that they return home and present themselves for the priests' judgements. The two argued and neither conceded as they engaged in swift combat utilizing their newfound powers. Diana eventually had her crescent blade at Leona's throat but refused to deal the killing blow and fled. Devastated, Leona descended the mountain without Diana and hurried to report to the elders.
Unfortunately, when Leona arrived, she found many Solari priests and Ra'Horak guards slaughtered, seemingly by Diana's hands. The survivors emerged and awed at Leona's arrival, amazed by the arrival of not one but two Aspects among them. Now as the new Aspect of the Sun, Leona knew that great threats and changes were coming to Runeterra and vowed to act as a guiding light for her people serving as fierce leader.
Leona continued to lead the Solari as an avatar of their faith and was eventually appointed as the commander for the entire Ra'Horak, gaining complete control and loyalty of all the Solari warriors. Though she seeks to preserve the religious dominance of the Solari, she has sworn to find and locate Diana in fear of what the Aspect of the Moon will do to her if she does not learn to control it.
(TBA) [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
(TBA) [ 5 ]
Leona is a tall, beautiful woman with lightly tanned skin, light brown eyes and long back-length shiny auburn reddish hair.
Her attire consists of red and gold Solari armor that covers her entire body, a spiked golden crown on her head, and she always carries her sword and shield.
Leona is a devout and loyal Solari warrior, willing to give her life in the name of the sun and her people. She has an incredibly strong force of will, evidenced by her early schooling, the trials she undertook before being imbued by the Aspect of the Sun, and her commitment to guiding the Solari as host to the Aspect.
She is a warm soul, especially with Diana , who was her closest friend and lover before her betrayal at the peak of Mount Targon. Many Solari demanded Diana's head due to this betrayal, but Leona instead endeavors to help her control the Moon Aspect's power before it destroys her. She still loves Diana despite her betrayal, but is unable to bring herself to reconcile with her.
Despite their disagreements, Diana and Leona were close friends and lovers growing up on Mount Targon, but have since became enemies after becoming Aspects. The two expressed romantic interest during the Festival of the Nightless Eve. Leona saw the moment Diana was imbued with the moon's power, she rushed to help before being imbued with the sun's power herself and made an Aspect.
Atreus climbed Mount Targon to find the power of Aspects when Leona refused to destroy the trespassers that attacked his patrol. After he defeated Aatrox and became the new Aspect of War, he opposes her and other Targonian Aspects. Leona would not move against the Barbarians because she knew Aatrox was slaughtering them, which Atreus would only understand later on. [ 6 ]
Soraka refers to Leona as "Woman whose face burned like the sun".
As the champion of the Solari , Alune sees Leona as the Lunari's ultimate enemy. However, like most of the Lunari , she is not necessarily hostile towards Leona or the Solari.
The Radiant Dawn
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Leona
Mentioned: Diana
Call of the Mountain (Video)
The mountain calls. Will you answer?
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Illi , Inviolus Vox , Leona
Mentioned: Taric
Short Story
Rise with Me
By Dana Luery Shaw
Hear! Upon the Great Mountain,
Starring: Diana , Leona
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Light Bringer
By Graham McNeill
The raiders attacked before dawn; fifty wolf-lean men in iron hauberks mantled with strange furs and bearing ash-dulled axes. Their steps were swift as they entered the settlement at the foot of the mountain. These were men who had fought as brothers for years, who lived in the heartbeat between life and death. A warrior in battered scale armor and bearing a heavy-bladed greatsword over his shoulder led them. Beneath his dragon-helm, his face was bearded and raw, burned by a lifetime of war-making under a harsher sun than this.
The Vaulted Road
In the shadow of an approaching eclipse, a young Lunari scout escapes captivity with her Solari lover, and the two of them decide to turn their backs on Targon forever.
Starring: Diana , Leona , Lyra
Halfway Between the Stars and Earth
By Katie Chironis
It was a perfectly good night for a cup of tea. Chilly, certainly, but clear—as crisp a night as frigid Mount Targon ever got, really. Soraka was expecting a visitor. The snow in the stone kettle had already begun to melt over the hearth at the center of her little yurt; as it grew warmer, the room was suffused with the smell of dried tea leaves and sparse mountain herbs.
Starring: Soraka
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Nasus , Pantheon
In Battle, Broken
By Laurie Goulding
Weary from the day’s labors, Iula wiped her stiff hands upon her apron, and raised a cup to the mantel.
Starring: Iula , Pantheon
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Viego
Scorn of the Moon
By Daniel Couts
Starring: Diana
Mentioned: Leona
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
The Unbreakable Spear
By David Slagle
Starring: Pantheon
Mentioned: Aatrox , Iula , Leona
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Answer To Her Light
By Unknown Author
The omens are clear: The coven has reassembled in the name of the old gods. Eclipse Leona is ready to meet them.
Starring: Ivern , Leona
Mentioned: Camille , Lissandra
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
Dawn by Raid
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Leona , Wukong , Yone
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Intensely shy, the fae fawn Lillia skittishly wanders Ionia's forests. Hiding just out of sight of mortals—whose mysterious natures have long captivated, but intimidated, her—Lillia hopes to discover why their dreams no longer reach the ancient Dreaming Tree. She now travels Ionia with a magical branch in hand, in an effort to find people's unrealized dreams. Only then can Lillia herself bloom and help others untangle their fears to find the sparkle within. Eep!
When the Freljordian barbarian Ivern the Cruel traveled to Omikayalan and cut down the God-Willow, several seeds of the ancient tree were dispersed and scattered around Ionia . One of these seeds took root in what would later be known as the Garden of Forgetting and, after being nurtured by the now reformed Green Father Ivern, sprouted into the Dreaming Tree; a [[Spirit Tree] that spread the magic of mortal desires by attracting and containing their dreams within dream-laden flower buds.
When the Dreaming Tree began to have a dream of it's own, it manifested into a new bud that held this dream. This bud however fell to the ground prematurely, miraculously sprouting into Lillia; an awkward Fae Fawn creature with the flower bud from her birth still attached to her head. Having no company other than her mother tree and the many dreams that drifted to the garden each night, Lillia became a caretaker for the garden and helped her mother by tending to the buds containing the dreams and desires of humans.
During this time, Lillia would learn more about the world outside the garden through these dreams, becoming enchanted by sights of people and places people dream of, experiencing the swirl of emotions in each one and seeing the desires that mortals only think of when they're asleep. Lillia began to feel a deep sense of care for these dreams and the dreamers that made them, longing to one day meet these many dreamers face-to-face. Lillia's dream to explore the world and meet these dreamers eventually manifested into a bud of it's own on a branch of the Dreaming Tree.
After the Noxian Invasion of Ionia , fewer dreams began to arrive to the Garden of Forgetting, causing Lillia's mother tree to grew sick and infected with burls and dark ooze. Though Lillia did her best to nurture her mother tree and the remaining dreams contained in its buds, the Dreaming Tree only grew so sick it could no longer protect the garden from outsiders.
One night, around the time of the Spirit Blossom festival , a band of warriors chased a lone figure into the garden and all the way to the location of the Dreaming Tree itself. During a fight, the branch holding Lillia's own dream bud was cut down by a slash of the lone figure's blade, causing it to fall to the ground and frightening Lillia. Panicked, Lillia used dream dust and forced all the humans to fall asleep.
Having finally met her first humans, Lillia was shocked at how different they were compared to how they seemed from the wonderful dreams she would witness while tending to the garden, seeing them as tangled and confused just like the burls that infected her mother tree. While weeping from the sheer shock of the incident, Lillia noticed the lone figure's dream as it slowly floated toward the cut down branch and into the bud containing Lillia's own dream. Picking up the branch, Lillia soothed the dream within the bud, causing it and herself to grow brighter as the bud on her head unfurled and bloomed with magical sparkling pollen before sneezing and releasing the magic into the forest.
As the humans woke up, Lillia hid behind the tree and watched as they completely forgot how they got to the garden and what they were doing there before leaving. Though relieved to see them go, Lillia still saw the potential for dreams within these humans despite how tangled and violent they were on the surface.
While caring for her mother tree, Lillia saw more dreams of mortals that depicted several Spirits of Ionian mythology. Through her encounter with the human warriors, Lillia realized that the only way she can truly save the Dreaming Tree is by bringing the dreams to the garden herself. Finally gaining the courage, Lillia took up her branch and left the garden to enter the unfamiliar and frightening world outside as she looked over an Ionian village celebrating the Spirit Blossom festival. [ 1 ]
While shy and hiding just out of sight, Lillia now helps mortals realize their own dreams, bringing forward glimpses of the potential she sees in them. In doing so, Lillia realizes she's finally fulfilled her own dream to explore the world and meet these dreamers, occasionally causing the bud on her head to bloom with joy.
On one occasion, Lilia encounters a lonely girl in the forest. The girl's dream seems elusive until Lillia realizes it's not what the girl wants, but what she needs—a connection to her absent sister. Through a heartfelt exchange, Lillia helps the girl release her dream, teaching her the power of dreams to provide comfort and solace.
At some point, a large amount of dewdrops containing glimpses into dreams from all over Runeterra began to gather around the Dreaming Tree in preparation for a massive harvest. Lillia travelled back to the Garden of Forgetting to help nurture the dewdrops during the harvest, encountering the garden's other caretakers such as a Vastayan gardener of the Ophelis tribe named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . Along with that, the harvest attracted many Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). watched over by the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , who kept these fickle spirits in line as they entered others' dreams and guided the dreamers.
Lillia watching the Dreaming Tree as magical dewdrops begin to gather around it, ready for the harvest.
During this harvest, Lillia saw into other dreams carried to the garden by the dewdrops. Looking into one dream, she saw the Yordle Vex attending a joyful birthday party planned by her 'friend' Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , which Vex considered more of a nightmare.
Lillia fighting off the corruption that took hold Lux's dream.
Lillia peered more closely into a different dream belonging to Luxanna Crownguard , who dreamt of a utopian version of Demacia where her magical gifts were celebrated rather than feared. During this wondrous dream however, Lillia witnessed it corrupt with darkness as Lux encountered a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and walked into a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). filled with darkness and grasping hands. In an effort to save Lux and her dream of a better Demacia, Lillia fought off the corruption, which manifested in the form of mysterious crows.
Lux's dream was seemingly saved by a sprite who took the form of a young mage named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Lillia is a pretty slender Fae Fawn , with brownish fur, long hair with a distinct palette of lilac and blue, large ears,big blue eyes and four deer legs. She doesn't wear clothes, just a plain top made of leaves with a green palette. The most distinctive ornament on her attire is the flower bud on her head. She also has the magical branch in hand. Despite looking similar to a Vastaya , Lillia is not one.
Lillia is a very shy and kind individual, but is also extremely protective and determined in her cause to help her Mother tree. She is very passionate and devoted to her mission to save the Mother tree's life. Lillia is very curious, with a broad imagination and an everlasting sense of wonder. She is both clumsy and competent.
Lillia's mother, the legendary Dreaming Tree, was directly spawned by the ancient God-Willow tree in Omikayalan . When Ivern, as a once human barbarian, cut down the God-Willow, he fused with it and became the legendary Green Father as he vowed to tend to and care for all nature and helped nurture many of the God-Willow's spawned seeds including Lillia's mother tree.
Due to the fact that Ivern is essentially fused with the God-Willow and he took the effort to care for the Dreaming Tree, he's considered an ancestor or 'grandfather' figure to Lillia. Their relationship seems very warming, as Lillia states that Ivern sometimes considers her his "favorite sprout."
Though Lillia never directly interacted with Yasuo, it is implied that he could be the figure that fled into the Garden of Forgetting during her first ever encounter with humans.
At some point, Yone met Lillia developed a fond friendship with her, possibly when the two arrived at Weh'le during the Spirit Blossom festival . Yone, considering Lillia as one of the kinder spirits compared to the many Azakana he faces, has vowed to protect her from any dangers, particularly demons. [ 2 ]
It's unclear whether or not they have directly met, but Yone states that Nocturne is targeting Lillia and has vowed to stop him from ever crossing paths with her. It's very likely they are at least aware of one another though due to Nocturne's innate connection to nightmares.
The Bashful Bloom
By David Slagle
Starring: Lillia
Mentioned: Ivern
Beyond the Garden
With the arrival of the Spirit Blossom Festival, a magical fawn musters the courage to venture out and uncover the mystery behind her ailing forest.
Mentioned: Kindred , Riven , Teemo
Short Story
The Garden of Dreaming
The child slowly makes her way into the forest. And sometimes beneath the forest as the canopy of leaves weaves a green blanket against the clouds. Oh! And sometimes over the forest when there are roots! Don't trip, little girl, don't trip. And now… she's going through it.
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As the reclusive leader of the Frostguard , many believe Lissandra is a living saint whose followers bring healing and wisdom to the tribes of the Freljord . The truth is perhaps more sinister, as she uses her elemental magic to twist the power of True Ice into something dark and terrible, entombing or impaling any who would reveal her deepest secrets. Indeed, the legacy of her past may yet be the beginning of the end for Runeterra.
Lissandra came into existence millennia ago, a time when the barriers between the tangible, physical world and other realms were hotly contested and beings of old magic roamed freely.
In this chaotic epoch, Lissandra and her sisters, Avarosa and Serylda, sought to conquer whatever they could. Lissandra tried to control the mortal world, only to be attacked by the claws of Volibear , rendering her sightless.
Deprived of her sight, Lissandra walked in dreams instead. Using her magic, she established a connection with powerful extradimensional entities known as the Watchers . On behalf of herself and her sisters, she made a deal with them to prepare Runeterra for the impending arrival of the Void.
In exchange, Lissandra and her sisters would be granted near-immortality and the ability to withstand the worst of the numbing frost. Named Iceborn , they were promised to be spared until the very end. Lissandra herself became the Watchers' Seeker, mediating their will to the Iceborn.
However, Avarosa and Serylda grew weary of their subservient role and sought to free themselves from their constraints. Caught in the middle, Lissandra tried to soothe her sisters' concerns while appealing to the Watchers for more time, but the Watchers became increasingly impatient. At some point, Avarosa and Serylda beseeched the demi-god Ornn to construct an expansive chasm and bridge , where they would then lock away the Watchers.
The sisters' conflicts had escalated into a full-scale war. As the war drew to an end, Avarosa and Serylda led their armies up into the mountains to face Lissandra. Despite Lissandra's efforts to remind them of the conquests achieved through their allegiance to the Watchers, her sisters remained indifferent.
At last, the Watchers had arrived in Runeterra. Drawing upon all ancient magic, Lissandra sacrificed her sisters and their amassed armies, before sealing the Watchers underneath a barrier of magical ice at the depths of the Howling Abyss.
Over the passing years, Lissandra slowly realized that the barrier containing the Watchers was insufficient. The monstrous beings she had entombed were merely slumbering, gradually corrupting the True Ice around them into a more sinister essence. Now, they roamed through Lissandra's dreams as easily as she had theirs, and always she would wake, terrified, professing her loyalty to the chilling eternity they promised.
Lissandra rallied her remaining devotees to venerate her departed sisters. Their objective: accumulate as much True Ice as possible to prolong the delay of the Watchers' return, scouring the frozen expanses to enlist those of Iceborn lineage who would join their cause.
Lissandra and the first of her Frostguard exhausted all means to rewrite the history of the Freljord, erasing all records of the true events. Yet, whispers of rumors and prophetic tales endured in folklore and songs, foretelling the return of Avarosa and Serylda. Lissandra would kill silently anyone who had been claimed their reincarnations.
In one instance, Lissandra sensed a Watcher trying to wake up. Laying down on the Howlling Abyss, naked, she used her psychic powers to feed the Watcher dreams of others. She traversed the entire Freljord in astral form, checking on other's dreams and even remarked that a young girl appeared to be iceborn.
In the final moments of the ritual, Lissandra enters the Watcher own dream, where she sees herself being devoured by them. She awakens horrified and spilling bile out of her mouth. But the Watcher is finally sleeping again. For her, this is a small price to pay for to keep them at bay.
On a night of frost moon, Lissandra walked through a sacred sanctum of hers, where she visited numerous ice coffins holding half-dead frozen people whom she uses to feed the Watchers. She visited their dreams as she passed between them.
She remarked two sisters who were frozen together and who were seemingly devoted to each other. She thought their devotion is foolish and mentioned she found it more convenient to lose her sisters.
In recent events, Lissandra commanded the story hunters to attack the Notai tribe, for they may harbor ancient history through their culture of retelling myths and legends. They found Nunu and other Notai children and took them to the Foundling Village . There, he met Lissandra personally, who asked him countless questions about his mother’s stories, always seeking information about one particular song.
Lissandra also told him about one fierce monster that killed all who sought its power, thwarting the Frostguard who were sent each year, never to return. Actually, she was trying to discover the location of the Svellsongur artifact .
Lissandra searches for a relic called the Heart of Blue, a weapon capable of creating pure ice, which she needs to keep the void at bay from Runeterra.
Lissandra is a towering blue pale-skinned woman with a semblance of a sculpture. She wears a gown that looks like is made of stone or ice. She wears her signature horned headpiece and is always being followed by a trail of Dark Ice . Her bluish silver hair is braided into a single pigtail that goes down to her waist. Without her helmet, Lissandra can be seen to have a majestic and expressionless face, with open eyelids showing her blind eyes.
Lissandra is a very imposing presence. She ports herself like a glorious monolith, always standing above everyone else. Lissandra is very manipulative, frigid, demanding, a perfectionist, and will do anything to achieve her goals. She is a very harsh leader and does not cope well with defeat or failure. She is also a very patient person, observing the Howling Abyss for almost ten millennia, waiting for the beings below to wake up.
Although she has this icy facade, Lissandra is a fearful person. She is in constant dread that her past will catch up to her and perpetually carries a heavy burden. She came to accept that she will find no peace in this life.
Lissandra and her two sisters, Avarosa and Serylda, were three Iceborn sisters who served the Frozen Watchers until the latter two decided to fight for independence. Lissandra is the youngest of the triplets. [ 1 ] At the final battle on the Bridge above the Howling Abyss, she sacrificed her two sisters. After the fall of the Watchers and the deaths of her two sisters, Lissandra tried to wipe out any historical records of them from the Freljord. She was unable to completely snuff out legends regarding Avarosa and Serylda which still lingered on to the modern day. Seeing a threat in the tales about her past, Lissandra secretly plots the death of any potential Avarosa and Serylda figureheads.
Deep down, Lissandra still loves her sisters and one of the main reasons she has to removed their names from history is because it hurts her to remember them.
She lost her sight to Volibear during one of their confrontations in the early days of the Freljord and along with her Frostguard has been actively containing his worship as well as other old demigods' in order to weaken them, though he refuses to vanish and continues to actively expand his influence.
Legend says the Three Sisters asked for Ornn's help to build the Howling Abyss , though the tale may not be true.
Lissandra is actively trying to contain the worship of Anivia , sending out allied raiding parties to attack Notai carravans. At some point Anivia herself would battle against the Frostguard army.
The Watchers would give Lissandra and her sisters true Iceborn powers. Lissandra was the 'Seeker', the intermediary between the Iceborn and the Watchers. Eventually, after learning about the Watchers true intent, her sisters would openly rebel against them, with Lissandra seemingly still allied with them. During the final day of the rebellion, the Watchers broke out and threatened to consume the world, Lissandra betrayed the Watchers and sealed them away under the Howling Abyss . At that battle she sacrificed many, including both Avarosa and Serylda. Lissandra and her Frostguard keep watch over the Howling Abyss in an attempt to prevent the release of the Watchers .
Before becoming the Green Father, Ivern the Cruel was opposed to the Three Sisters.
Lissandra unleashed an icy cataclysm to seal the Watcher which also decimated the Yeti civilization and robbed the Yeti of their magic, resulting in most Yeti descending into savagery . The Frostguard keep some of the living savage Yetis as military animals.
Lissandra has found an easy ally in Trundle and the Frost Trolls . She would Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). many Frost Trolls, eventually turning them into obedient Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Lissandra tried to kill Udyr and other spirit walkers when he was a boy.
Ashe and Sejuani are believed by Freljordians to be the reincarnations of Avarosa and Serylda, but are also possibly their direct descendants, making Lissandra their great-aunt-many-times-removed. Currently Lissandra is the leader of the Frostguard and openly hostile towards Ashe's and her Avarosan , and Sejuani and the Winter's Claw (as suggested by Legends of Runeterra official artworks, where Tryndamere is battling against the Frostguard forces, as well as the Frostguard openly raiding Avarosan settlements and attacking Braum when excaping Da'arvong in The Raid cinematic).
During her attempt to find Avarosa's grave, Ashe and her original Avarosans were attacked by Lissandra's followers who were trying to conceal the truth. It is unknown what Ashe thinks of the Frostguard at the moment. Lissandra appears to know about Ashe faking the origin of her bow, as stated by one of their Legends of Runeterra interactions.
She met Nunu in the Foundling Village after his tribe was attacked by raiders. She told him about a beast that lived near by, which Nunu would later befriend and name Willump . Her intention was to gain a gem that swirled with the dreams of any mortal mind nearby that the Yeti Willump was keeping.
The Ice Witch
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Sejuani , Volibear , Zoe
Short Story
Hero of the Frost Moon
By Matthew Dunn
A hero is anyone who answers the call to do what must be done.
Legend of the Frozen Watchers
By Laurie Goulding
Of all the tales of the old Freljord that have somehow endured into the modern age, there is one—and one alone—that can chill the blood of even the hardiest Iceborn.
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
The Dream Thief
The Ice Witch does not sleep in her citadel.
Mentioned: Volibear
Music Video
You and Me Makes Us
By Numerous creators
Starring: Lissandra , Nunu , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Ornn
A Feast Fit for a King
By Graham McNeill
A hulking figure trudged through the waist-deep snow of the canyon, lumbering uphill with a purposeful gait that dared the blizzard to stop him.
Starring: Trundle
Mentioned: Lissandra
By David Slagle
I wake up suddenly, like a story that starts in the middle of the action.
Starring: Nunu , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Trundle
The Boy and His Yeti
Mentioned: Anivia , Layka , Lissandra
Short Story • 35 Minute Read
The Eye in the Abyss
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Sigvar Half-Quiver knelt on one knee, head bowed, while the wind beyond the gates howled like the ice-wraiths of legend.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Lissandra , Ornn
The Eye of the Void
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Vel'Koz
The Green Father
Starring: Daisy , Ivern
Short Story • 15 Minute Read
The Lost Tales of Ornn
I have never seen the forgotten god. My grandmother told me these tales, but she never saw the forgotten god either—nor did her grandmother before her, or hers before her, a thousand times over. His legends endure only around crackling fires and meals of roasted fish. The further back we trace our ancestors, the truer the tales become.
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Volibear
The Night Hunter
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Vayne
Mentioned: Evelynn , Lissandra
The Relentless Storm
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné , Rayla Heide
Starring: Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Ornn , Rhond
The Shackles of Belief
Thorva, Sister of Frost, hauled on her reins, dragging her hulking drüvask to a halt alongside Scarmother Vrynna of the Winter's Claw.
Starring: Sylas , Vrynna
The Spirit of Hearth-Home
By Elyse Lemoine , Ty Sheedlo
I remember...
Starring: Aurora , Ornn
Mentioned: Hestrelk , Lissandra , Volibear
The Troll King
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Tomb of the Troll Boy
By Leslee Sullivant Heintz
'Would you like to hear a bedtime story?'
Starring: Braum
Warmother: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Nina Vakueva
Thousands of years ago, the War of the Three Sisters nearly tore the frigid wilds of the Freljord apart. Today, the tribes descended from the three sisters - the Winter's Claw, the Avarosan, and the Frostguard - still fight for power and survival. Ashe, daughter of the Avarosan warmother, trains to someday lead her people. Food is scarce in the Freljord. Warmth, even more so.
Starring: Ashe , Grena , Helnr , Maalcrom , Yrael
Warmother: Issue 2
Faced with impossible odds, Ashe and her tribe must decide what is worth dying for.
Starring: Ashe , Grena , Maalcrom , Yrael
Mentioned: Anivia , Helnr , Lissandra
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Enter the Freljord
Starring: Ashe , Lissandra , Sejuani
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Keeper of Dreams
By Unknown Author
Destroy your doubt, face the future.
Starring: Irelia , Karma , Lissandra
The Seeker's Tale
By Christina Norman
Mentioned: Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Sejuani , Xerath
Answer To Her Light
The omens are clear: The coven has reassembled in the name of the old gods. Eclipse Leona is ready to meet them.
Starring: Ivern , Leona
Mentioned: Camille , Lissandra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Journey Into The Freljord
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Ashe , Jarvan IV , Lissandra , Trundle
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Lucian , a Sentinel of Light, is a grim hunter of undying spirits, pursuing them relentlessly and annihilating them with his twin relic pistols. After the wraith Thresh slew his wife , Lucian embarked on the path of vengeance—but even with her return to life, his rage is undiminished. Merciless and single-minded, Lucian will stop at nothing to protect the living from the long-dead horrors of the Black Mist.
Lucian was raised in Demacia , longing to follow in his father's footsteps and become a Sentinel of Light . However, his father Urias discouraged him, wanting to keep him safe. When Urias died in battle, his apprentice Senna delivered the news to Lucian. Lucian insisted on joining the Sentinels, eventually falling in love with and marrying Senna. Senna was later killed by Thresh , though after some time, Lucian resurrected her by freeing her soul from Thresh's lantern. The pair would go on to lead a new band of Sentinels against Viego , successfully sealing him away within Hallowed Mist.
Lucian is a thin man with dark skin and a fierce face. He has yellow-brown eyes and black hair fashioned into long locs with the sides shaved.
His Sentinel regalia is an intricately crafted full-body set of agile leather and cloth armor. It is primarily white, black, and silver with accents of gold and fuchsia.
His large twin pistols appear to be fashioned from white, rectangularly carved stones protruding from a dark metal casing and handle. When they fire, a magical bolt of light erupts from the stone itself.
Lucian is serious and intense, being extremely dedicated to his duties as a Sentinel. Senna 's death turned him cold and merciless, and while her subsequent resurrection returned some softness to his demeanor, he remains grimly determined in his work.
Lucian and Senna are husband and wife. Lucian's father Urias saved Senna as a child and later helped her become a Sentinel. Senna met Lucian to deliver the news of his father's death. Love developed between them and they became husband and wife. She also helped him become a Sentinel. Thresh killed Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). when she tried to save Lucian. This event fueled Lucian's hatred for Thresh and Shadow Isles . Lucian traveled to Bilgewater in pursuit of the Harrowing to locate Thresh. It was then he found out Senna's soul is trapped inside the Chain Warden's lantern . Lucian continued to pursue the Mist to free her and finally succeeded , though he did not expect her to come back to life. Although Senna has been freed, Lucian remains obsessed with exacting vengeance from Thresh, as he is certain the Chain Warden’s machinations have only begun.
During the events of Shadow and Fortune , Lucian and Miss Fortune encountered each other in a recent Bilgewater 's Harrowing . They both fought the undead from the Shadow Isles and parted way in friendly terms. Despite this, she would eventually betray him and the Sentinels of Light to Viego . She intended to persuade him to help her claim Bilgewater. They also encountered Olaf in the same events but did not think much of him. Olaf would eventually forget that he met Lucian.
After Senna was freed, the couple's main goal is now to stop Viego and his Black Mist. Upon finding out about Senna's relation to Isolde, his wife, Viego chased her and Lucian and succeeded in retrieving Isolde in spite of their efforts to stop him.
Gwen allied herself with Lucian and Senna to aid the Sentinels of Light and oppose Viego.
Lucian and Senna recruited multiple Sentinels of Light to aid them against Viego, including: Diana , Graves , Irelia , Olaf , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , and Vayne . Lucian and a Rookie saved Rengar from some wraiths when they traveled to the jungles Ixtal in search of a fetter.
Lucian snuck off to Shurima to find the Absolver and met Akshan . While initially refusing to join their cause, Akshan would have a change of heart and revived Lucian after he was killed by wraiths.
The Purifier
By Devon Giehl
Starring: Lucian
Mentioned: Senna , Thresh
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Before Dawn
In the darkest night, a new Sentinel rises.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Shyvana , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Dark Passage
This ends now.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh
Short Story
By Phillip Vargas
Lucian sat on a hilltop beneath the shadow of a large banyan tree and scanned the valley below.
Hunter of Shadows
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
They came at Lucian in a blur of shadow, lunging at him with insubstantial talons and ancient, rusted blades.
Starring: Lucian , Senna
Senna woke with a gasp, her breath pluming in the frigid night.
Mentioned: Isolde , Thresh , Viego
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
By Graham McNeill
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
Shadow's Embrace
Those trapped in darkness need light the most.
Shadows and Reflections
By Numerous creators
The Purifier Remembers
Steadfast Heart: Issue 1
By Ian St. Martin
Separated by a millennium, personal tragedy draws Viego and Lucian to islands shrouded in mist and mystery.
Starring: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 2
Viego and Lucian grapple with losing the loves of their lives. Will either find peace, or only ruin?
Steadfast Heart: Issue 3
As Ruination spreads across Runeterra, the Sentinels begin a quest for allies.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 5
Senna trains the new Sentinels of Light, as Lucian searches for the wielder of a legendary weapon in Shurima. Meanwhile, the Ruined King gains allies of his own.
Starring: Akshan , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde , Senna
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
The Voices of the Dead
By David Slagle
There's a saying on my island. “ Only through stealing our breath can the wind speak .” You want me to describe the Black Mist that greeted me when I first arrived in the Ionian village, hood raised, relic cannon on my back?
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Chain Warden
Starring: Thresh
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Viego
The Redeemer
Starring: Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
A New Devil's In Town
Starring: Lucian , Thresh
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Mentioned: Caitlyn
Systems Online
In the wake of a ruthless Praetorian threat, an elite team converges to stop them. Prepare to engage—you're just in time.
Starring: Ekko , Fiora , Graves , Lucian , Pantheon
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lucian , Qiyana , Yasuo
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
With Hell Before Them
June 7th, 1868
Starring: Ashe , Darius , Hecarim
Mentioned: Lucian , Thresh
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The Yordle sorceress Lulu is known for conjuring dreamlike illusions and fanciful creatures as she roams Runeterra with her fairy companion Pix. Lulu shapes reality on a whim, warping the fabric of the world, and what she views as the constraints of this mundane, physical realm. While others might consider her magic at best unnatural, and at worst dangerous, she believes everyone could use a touch of enchantment.
Lulu, always a deeply empathetic and caring Yordle, once came across an injured bird and instinctively rushed to help. But as she reached for it, the bird transformed into a mischievous faerie . Laughing, it flew away, taking Lulu's staff with it, and she eagerly gave chase. As she pursued the faerie, the world around her began to shift and warp. Unbeknownst to Lulu, she had crossed into the spirit realm.
The faerie, who introduced himself as Pix , eventually stopped and, with a flick of his fingers, transformed Lulu’s simple walking stick into a magical staff. He led her to a place of ancient, pure primordial magic, where Lulu’s own powers amplified. He led her to the Glade .
Lulu in the Glade.
Bandle City , Lulu's home, was a strange and magical place that defied logic, where time was unstable, and the natural laws of the material world did not fully apply. Yet the Glade was an even stranger place - it had existed long before the Yordles came into the world, and perhaps it was from the Glade that Bandle City itself arose.
Here, her imagination could manifest into reality, and she reveled in the freedom of creation. Lulu did not know whether Pix had brought her here because of a similarity of souls, or whether the Glade itself had called her, but she fell in love with this place instantly. She was so lost in the magic and wonder that she eventually forgot about existence of everything else. And time lost its meaning in The Glade - what seemed like mere days to Lulu could have been centuries or even millennia.
Yet one day, as if awakening from a long sleep, Lulu found herself back in the material realm, unsure of how long she had been gone. To her surprise and delight, she found that some of her newfound power had come with her, allowing her to make small things large, change colours to those more pleasing her, and make creatures spontaneously fall asleep. To Pix's infinite amusement, she turned the most powerful beasts into tiny, confused frogs or squirrels with a single swing of her staff.
Lulu travels across Runeterra using her magic freely, as evidenced by HUGIFIED squirrel.
While she missed The Glade, Lulu set off on a journey across Runeterra , always searching for the elusive way back. Pix, however, claimed to have forgotten the way, but perhaps he did not wish to return yet. Together, they traveled from place to place, pulling playful pranks wherever they went. In lands of Demacia , known for their resistance to magic, she led a group of children away from their dull history lessons and transformed them into toadstools, to the horror of their parents and the local militia. The children eventually returned unharmed, but their wild stories were dismissed as fantasies.
In cold territories of Freljord , she found herself in the middle of a battle between rival tribes and decided to turn their weapons into flowers for her own amusement, creating chaos and confusion. More recently, Lulu has been seen wandering Ionia, playing among the glowing everblooms of Qaelin , and pranking the overly serious acolytes of the Shadow Order , who she thinks need to lighten up.
Though Lulu longs to return to the Glade and often misses it, she finds joy in the present, where each day offers new adventures and excitement. Besides, she has come to understand that the Glade is always with her, carried in her heart wherever she goes.
Lulu and Tristana during their journey.
During one of her adventures, Lulu travels with Tristana after visiting Poppy . As they step through a Yordle pathway, Lulu misplaces her Whispering Key, an ancient and powerful artifact she affectionately calls her "Doodad." Ignoring Tristana’s growing concern about a nearby Noxian camp, Lulu eagerly uses her magic to track it down. Much to Tristana's dismay, the playful artifact begins to elude them, shifting into various forms whenever Lulu tries to catch a glimpse of it.
Before long, Draven and Tamara lead the Noxian forces in a sudden attack on the two Yordles. However, the land itself rises to aid them, as nature spirits joining the battle. While Tristana bravely holds off the Noxians, Lulu remains preoccupied with chasing her ever-elusive Doodad, laughing as it transforms into anything but its true form right before her eyes.
In the end, with the help of the spirits, the Yordles emerge victorious. Draven and the remaining Noxians are chased off by a massive, enchanted rabbit. Tristana gives a nod of thanks to the creature, while Lulu expresses her gratitude to the spirits and the land itself. With the battle behind them, the two friends continue on their way, ready for whatever the next adventure may bring.
Lulu wants to help in this mission.
One day, when Teemo was captured in Bilgewater by Graves , his Yordle friends in Bandle City decided to rescue him. Tristana, Timo's closest friend, insisted on going alone, but Lulu and Corky wanted to help too. Tristana convinced them to go on diversionary missions: she sent Corky after a made-up threat in Piltover and told Lulu to keep an eye on the stone.
After the others left, Lulu became impatient and pouted, accidentally enlarging Pix's head. Meanwhile, Corky realized he had been tricked and returned to Bandle City, where he invited Lulu to cause some ruckus. By the time they regrouped, Tristana had also been captured. Corky attempted to fly his plane to rescue them, but crashed, landing in a cage.
Lulu, now larger than usual and still guarding the stone, approached them, complaining to Tristana that the stone was doing nothing. But when she touched the rune iron cage, she shrank back to her normal size, dropping the stone on Graves' foot and causing him to shoot a rope and accidentally free the other yordles.
In a last-ditch attempt to stop them, Graves grabbed Corky and threatened Tristana, but Lulu playfully and quickly turned Graves into a small Gromp. forcing Twisted Fate , who knew how this would end, to take his enchanted friend with him. With the danger over, Tristana thanked her friends for their support, and the Yordles returned to Bandle City.
Lulu is a Yordle with lilac-colored skin, and olive green eyes that have brighter tones closer to the iris. She has straight, long dark purple hair with some lash-grazing pieces in the front.
She wears a vermillion-colored pointy hat and robes with accents of gold. Her shoes are brown with a elf-styled toe tip.
Lulu had always been a caring and deeply empathetic Yordle, living in her whimsical dreams as if they were as real as the world around her. Her visit to the Glade, a realm of boundless primordial magic, only amplified these traits, transforming her perception of reality forever.
Nowadays, Lulu is an imaginative and carefree Yordle who lives in a constant state of wonder and playfulness, often blurring the lines between reality and fantasy. Her deep connection to the fae spirit Pix and her time spent in the Glade have made her both powerful and unpredictable. Lulu’s whimsical nature means she often acts without thinking of the consequences. Whether she’s turning enemies into harmless creatures or meddling in conflicts for her own amusement, Lulu sees it all as a fun game.
Despite the chaos she causes, Lulu is kind-hearted and means no harm. Still, Lulu’s complete disregard for logic or caution means that her spells can create as much confusion as wonder, tipping the balance between delight and disaster for those around her.
Lulu is fiercely loyal to her friends, even if her antics often leave them bewildered. Beneath her playful exterior, however, lies a hidden vulnerability—despite her cheerful demeanor, Lulu fears deep down that other Yordles don’t truly understand or accept her, and that they may even despise her. It's possible, that this underlying fear of rejection, along with a profound loneliness, lingers beneath her whimsical surface, driving her to seek companionship through her playful escapades. [ 1 ]
Lulu likes both Poppy and Tristana , but she sometime finds them too serious for her liking.
Draven and Tamara have encountered both Lulu and Tristana , fought and fled from them during his return trip from Basilich to Noxus Prime.
Graves captured Teemo for the bounty on yordles while Twisted Fate refuses because "messing with Yordles brings a whole heap of trouble." Corki , Lulu and Tristana fought Graves when trying to save Teemo, which ended up in Graves being turned into a frog and the Yordles escaping.
In the old lore, Lulu is a friend of Veigar . Their connection in the new lore is left unambiguous.
The Fae Sorceress
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Lulu
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story
The Whispering Doodad
By Graham McNeill
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
A Bandle Scout Mission Journal
By Numerous creators
Another Bandle Scout mission badge complete.
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Corki , Kennen , Lulu , Tristana , Von Yipp
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Music Video
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Ariel Lawrence
Star Guardians can only defeat the darkness that spreads across the universe if they stand together. They will fight as one or fall as many.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Poppy
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa
Mentioned: Lulu
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Luxanna Crownguard hails from Demacia , an insular realm where magical abilities are viewed with fear and suspicion. Able to bend light to her will, she grew up dreading discovery and exile, and was forced to keep her power secret in order to preserve her family's noble status. Nonetheless, Lux's optimism and resilience have led her to embrace her unique talents, and she now seeks to bring greater tolerance and understanding to her homeland.
Luxanna (Lux) was born in High Silvermere , a city in Demacia, into the Crownguard family, one of the richest and most powerful families in the kingdom. After her brother, Garen , joined the Demacian army, Lux was raised to be worthy of the Crownguard name, loyal and dedicated to the royal family. However, she rebelled against this pre-destined life, dreaming of exploring the world outside the walls of Demacia.
One night in her youth, Lux was riding home after one of these explorations, but was fallen upon by a pack of wolves hungry for her and her horse. As they were about to attack her, Lux, full of fear, unleashed a powerful blast of light from her hand. Horrified, Lux realized that she was a mage, the terror of the Demacians and her family. From that moment, she did everything she could to hide her powers for fear of what they would mean for her and for her family.
For the next few years, Lux tried to hide her magical powers, afraid of what would happen. Fearing that her power would cause her to become as evil as she had been taught mages were, or that her family would fall into disgrace, she spent sleepless nights trying to suppress her powers. She soon found, however, that she could not keep away. She began to familiarize herself with magic, practicing and experimenting in secret, bending the solar rays of the gardens into different solid forms or making sparkling lights dance between her fingers. Still afraid for what they might lead to, Lux decided to keep her powers a secret as long as possible.
When she turned 16, Lux was taken to Demacia City by her parents to see Garen's ascension in the army. Here, Lux began to study the laws of Demacia, looking for a way that she and other magic people like her could live peacefully within the kingdom.
Lux stayed with Garen in Demacia City, and over time became a key asset in helping him maintain order in the city. One day, Garen chased a mage girl who was escaping, immobilizing and arresting her, reminding Lux of the fear she and other mages lived with in Demacia. Lux discovered that the woman carried a spell book, and after acquiring it she used it to practice her magic. Understanding the power contained within this magic book, and realizing the number of magic books that had been confiscated in Demacia's history, she decided to use her family's influence to enter the place where all those books were kept under lock and key to try and learn more about controlling her powers.
Finding nothing useful in her search, she was returning home when she came across a doorway she did not know, guarded by two guards. The guards tried to bar her way, but upon hearing her family name she was granted access. Guided by one of the guards, she discovered that this was the place where the mages that had been captured were locked away. Realizing that this would be her fate should her powers be discovered, she felt the familiar feelings of fear and horror bubble within her, and walking around the place, she discovered that the mages were forced to drink a liquid which weakened their powers. When Lux asked why they didn't just exile them, the guard simply responded that sometimes exile wasn't enough of a punishment. As they walked, Lux saw a large door that caught her attention, but the guard told her that she could not enter because that was the cell of Sylas of Dregbourne , one of the most dangerous criminals in Demacia.
After her powers were discovered, Lux was forced to flee Demacia, but not wanting to go with Sylas, she founded her own mage's refuge in which she would shelter mages who did not want to get involved in the civil war.
Lux is a tall, pale-skinned young woman with big blue eyes and shoulder-length golden blonde hair, on top of which she always wears a dark blue headband.
While she generally wears typical demacian noble attire in public, she is primarily seen in armor with a silver-white breastplate and skirt, dark blue leggings covering her legs and arms, white heeled boots to match her skirt and breastplate.
When Lux uses her magic, her eyes can sometimes change from blue to bright gold.
Lux presents an energetic and optimistic disposition, being happy and finding humor all the time. However, in more serious situations, Lux's facade drops and she turns out to be constrained and worried about her magic and being found out. She wishes for mages to be accepted in Demacia and opposes the Mageseekers' prosecution of them just because of their powers, sympathizing with Sylas for being unfairly imprisoned. When he betrayed her and started the rebellion, Lux saw him as the danger he truly was, though since the rebellion she has decided to help innocent mages secretly escape Demacia and join Sylas' camp, since being under his rule would be better than being trapped in a nation which saw them only as criminals.
Lux is the youngest in noble family Crownguard, born with magical abilities she keeps hidden for fear of being executed or exiled from Demacia . Lux feared of what could happen if her older brother Garen found out about her powers (their uncle was killed by a mage, an event that made Garen show magic users both zero tolerance and no mercy). She believed their mother was the only one who knew, however, she had no idea that Garen and their aunt Tianna had realized that she was a mage several years earlier, and were thinking of ways to protect her. Although they are aware of her power, they were somewhat in denial of Lux being a mage herself. After the events of the Lux comic , Lux got Garen to verbally acknowledge that she was a mage. The two parted ways on good terms.
Garen and Luxanna's father, Pieter Crownguard, was a defender during the failed Noxian assault nicknamed Cyrus's Folly . This is likely referring to the same Cyrus who conquered the port city Basilich, which also happens to be the hometown of Darius and Draven .
Galio deems Lux 'the only mage he likes' ( Link ▶️ "You. Young girl person. Can you stay and accompany me wherever I go?" ) and the one that can help him attain prolonged animation periods longer than a single battle. Lux was apparently the first person to have a conversation with Galio when she was 13-years-old, but he first became aware of her when her family made a pilgrimage to see him when she was a toddler. During the events of Warriors , Lux would make an appearance during Sylas' attack with the Winter's Claw on a northern fortress, which Garen and his soldiers had retreated to. When things were going badly for the Demacians, she openly reveals her magical power to call for Galio's help, which rallied Garen and his men.
Lux was introduced to the Illuminators by Kahina, Sona's adoptive sister.
Lux met Sylas when he's in prison. They developed certain bonds during their exchange, while Lux brought him food and books, Sylas taught her how to control her power. Later, Lux was manipulated and used by Sylas to escape Demacian imprisonment after he learnt about the property of petricite thanks to her. Sylas genuinely cares about Lux, but will not hesitate to harm her if she stops in his way. Lux, in turn, is also ready to stop him if necessary.
Lux was intended to marry Jarvan IV Lightshield as suggested by her brother Garen and her aunt Tianna , in order to gain political immunity that would protect her of any controversial accusations that would otherwise damage her and her family's reputation in Demacia.
Nocturne terrorized the Demacian settlement of Fossbarrow until Garen and Lux expelled him from the neighboring tomb. Nocturne was sealed in the grave of their great-grandfather Fossian, who died during the fight versus him, before a young mage named Luca accidentally woke him up.
The Lady of Luminosity
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Lux
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Tianna
Binding Light
A young Demacian mage has a secret she must hide - not just from her family, but the entire kingdom.
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
Flesh and Stone
By John O'Bryan
A young girl ashamed of her power. A monolith that can't help his curiosity. An unlikely pair - or the perfect match?
Starring: Galio , Lux
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
Katarina: Issue 2
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
In the wake of disaster, Lux risks all for the sake of a wounded soldier.
Mentioned: Garen , Morgana
Lux: Issue 1
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
In Demacia, order reigns and magic is forbidden. How will the order be upset when Lux's hidden magic emerges?
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV
Lux: Issue 2
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
Lux: Issue 3
If saving Sylas means exposing her powers, will Lux dare risk her own future to save a criminal?
Lux: Issue 4
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
Lux: Issue 5
As all mages are hunted down by Prince Jarvan IV and forces led by Garen, Lux must make her ultimate decision!
Mentioned: Jarvan III
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
Short Story
Garen: First Shield
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The King is dead. Demacia is mourning. And in the eyes of Garen Crownguard, it’s his fault. But can he rise to the challenge when Demacia needs him again? While on a peacetime expedition beyond the borders of Demacia, Garen, Quinn, and the Dauntless Vanguard uncover a plot that threatens to destroy long-standing alliances. As the knight-ranger Quinn tries to get word back to Demacia, Garen and his comrades make a desperate last stand. How long can they last, and at what cost?
Starring: Cithria , Garen , Quinn , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 3
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Katarina
Mentioned: Arrika , Drann , Jarvan III , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 5
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
League Animation Workshop
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Darius , Lux , Miss Fortune , Zed
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
The Might of Demacia
Starring: Garen
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Tianna
Short Story • 7 Minute Read
The Soldier and the Hag
The Lady of the Stones took a fellow soldier. Now, she'll take on Garen and his broadsword.
Mentioned: Lux
The Unshackled
Starring: Sylas
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Choncc Dome
By Ty Sheedlo , Taylor Dinwiddie , Isa Mari De Leon , Elyse Lemoine
Just because the Tournament of Souls is all about 1v1 combat doesn't mean you have to train alone! That's why Choncc has gathered some of the greatest Soul Fighters under one roof—er… dome. So choose a champ and start gettin' swole , Choncc-style!
Starring: Gwen , Lux , Samira , Sett
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
There's nothing like teaming up with your favorite duo partner in League of Legends. Just ask LilyPichu and sleightlymusical. It's On.
Starring: Ezreal , Lux , Swain
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
Fire to the Fuse
By Numerous Creators
Driven by an endless need for revenge, Pyke hunts down other versions of himself across dimensions. After each kill, the dimension collapses and a new Empyrean is born with volatile powers and a mission all their own.
Starring: Jax , Lux , Pyke
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Light's End
A cruel light. A flickering dark.
By Ariel Lawrence
Star Guardians can only defeat the darkness that spreads across the universe if they stand together. They will fight as one or fall as many.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Poppy
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
The Light Within
A kingdom hangs on the edge of ruin as an army of titanic elemental beasts wage war on humanity. The last line of defense is held by a lone warrior queen, Elementalist Lux. To save her people, she must look within and reveal her true nature...no matter what form it takes.
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Unite Against The Dark
Hear the story of Lunar Empress Lux, Lunar Guardian Nasus, and Lunar Guardian Warwick as we celebrate the Year of the Dog in League of Legends.
Starring: Caitlyn , Lux , Morgana , Nasus , Warwick
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
An ancient mystery in Runeterra
By Explorer Ezreal
Starring: Aatrox , Ezreal
Mentioned: Jayce , Lux , Twisted Fate
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Coming Alive
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Represent Your House
Which side will you choose?
Mentioned: Ezreal , Jayce , Katarina , Lux
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A massive creature of living stone, Malphite was born from the heart of the great Ixtal construct known as the Monolith. He has studied the elemental balance of Runeterra for thousands of years, using his tremendous strength to maintain order in a frequently chaotic world. Now, roused all too often from his slumbers, Malphite endures the fluid temperaments of mortals, while struggling to find a cause worthy of the last of his kind.
The Monolith was a living, floating fortress the size of a city. It was created by the God-Warrior Ne'Zuk as the ultimate weapon against the onslaught of the Void . While the Monolith was destroyed in battle, a single shard awoke centuries later, calling itself Malphite.
Malphite is a walking mountain, a rough assembly of stone and earth, sometimes featuring sparse patches of plant life. It is vaguely human-shaped, with enormously broad, bulky shoulders and a hunched posture. It has four-fingered hands, three-toed feet, and a relatively small head with eyes and a mouth that glow green. It features numerous upward-facing spikes resembling craggy mountain peaks on its head, back, forearms, and knees.
Stoic yet easygoing, Malphite is fond of making quaint observations. It is extremely friendly to mortals as well as other stone golems, who it often regards as family. However, it can become aggressive when necessary, unleashing the unstoppable force of its awesome might against its enemies. Acutely aware of its giant size and strength, Malphite is a protector of Runeterra , standing stalwart against the forces of the Void whom it was created to combat.
Chip is literally a chip of Malphite's body. Their relationship is like that of a loving father and son.
Malphite and Taliyah are friends. They play rock paper scissors, but Malphite always loses as he predictably always picks rock.
Shard of the Monolith
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Malphite
Short Story
Roots of a Poisoned Tree
By Graham McNeill
Dust hung in veils as Shoorai followed the mechanical-limbed form of Tunnel-Chief Hewlett deeper into the mine shaft.
Mentioned: Azir , Taliyah
Guardians of the Ancient (Video)
Runeterra is in turmoil! Noxian warships set sail for Ionia’s shores. But all is not lost. Heroes will rise. Fates will change.
Starring: Zilean
Mentioned: Farron , Irelia , Malphite
Milio's Super-Special Adventure Reports
By Elyse Lemoine
Greetings, family! It is I, Milio, with my first official Adventure Report!
Starring: Milio
Mentioned: Malphite , Neeko , Nidalee , Zyra
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Music Video
You Really Got Me
By Numerous creators
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A religious zealot dedicated to the unification of all life, Malzahar truly believes the newly emergent Void to be the gateway to Runeterra's salvation. In the desert wastes of Shurima , he opened his mind to the universe, and the whispers that answered led him to Icathia. Amidst the ruins of that land, he gazed into the dark heart of the Void itself—and Malzahar emerged changed, a shepherd empowered to bring others into the fold… or to release the voidling creatures that dwell beneath.
Beneath the glare of the Shuriman sun, there have always been those blessed with the power of foresight. The only son of aging trinket peddlers, Malzahar did not realize his gift until his parents had already succumbed to a wasting sickness, leaving the young, traumatized boy to fend for himself on the city streets of Amakra . He read fortunes in the gutter, for a coin or scraps of bread.
As his auguries proved more and more accurate, his reputation grew. He used his second sight to predict who a curious cameleer might marry, or where throwing daggers would land in games of chance at the bazaar. Soon, he began to receive patrons dressed not in dirtied sandals, but jeweled slippers.
However, for all this, Malzahar could never see his own destiny. His future was hidden.
Increasingly disillusioned with his success, he noted the common disparities of wealth, and witnessed those unhappy with their lives acting out in spiteful violence against one another. It was apparent to him that people were bound up in a never-ending cycle of pain, often of their own making, and no hopeful prophecy seemed able to break it. Malzahar himself soon felt nothing but a sense of emptiness, finally relinquishing his mortal possessions and leaving Amakra for good.
For years, he roamed the land, from the trackless wastes of the lesser sai to the ruins of old Shurima. By distancing himself from others, he was alone with his thoughts at last. He divined not just how callous people could be, but also how corrupt the world might yet become. Feverish visions began to plague his waking hours, along with otherworldly whispers of war and strife, and endless suffering.
He wandered far, until the sands turned to salt. He could not know that he had arrived in Icathia , a lost city ravaged in the wars of a bygone age. There, gazing into the depths of a ragged abyss, Malzahar opened his unsteady mind, desperate for understanding.
And the Void answered.
That would have been the end of any other tale, and yet somehow Malzahar endured. What lay in the darkness below brushed against the soul of the broken seer, only for an instant, and yet its strange and unknowable energies saturated his mind completely.
The lone figure that eventually strode out of Icathia was no longer just a man, but something greater. Malzahar had seen in the abyss an end to all the suffering he had witnessed in his mortal lifetime. Malzahar was then whispered to by Bel'Veth , the Void Empress, who granted him a vision promising the destruction of Runeterra. He realized the future he had believed hidden from him all this time was in fact a vision of his true calling: to accelerate the world toward inevitable oblivion. Malzahar devoted himself completely to the Empress's will, his mind corrupted by the touch of a higher power. He had to return to the people, and spread word of the holy nothingness that would gladly embrace them, the willing and non-believers alike. He would become the herald of the world’s salvation.
Among the nomads of the deep desert, he found his first disciples. Before their astonished eyes, he used his new Void-given powers to rend the very earth itself, summoning chittering, nightmarish creatures to carry away any who dared to deny him. Within a matter of months, strange rumors began to travel with the merchant caravans; rumors of men and women gladly sacrificing themselves to unseen powers, and of powerful quakes opening up the bedrock of Shurima in new fault lines hundreds of miles long.
gathering his followers, the Cult of the Void. Even since, rumors had been told of merchants killing themselves for their "prophet", earthquakes opening up large faults across Shurima, and settlers said to experience horrifying vision, sacrificing their cattle to satisfy the Void, Malzahar grows ever closer to bring about the apocalypse of Runeterra.
In the years since, Malzahar’s legend has spread even to the northern ports. As followers of “the Prophet” grow in number, nearby settlers are said to experience malefic visions grasping at their hearts, and fear gives rise to superstition—even the hardy villagers of the far wastes now make offerings of livestock to appease the voidling creatures below.
Malzahar is a Shuriman man with dark skin and blue eyes. He dresses himself in desert clothes, with blue shirts and pants, and a magenta scarf and cowl covering most of his head. His most distinctive characteristic is the top of his head, that thanks to the power of the void, reveals a grotesque hole from where void energy pulses and flows.
As child, Malzahar lost his family and was forced to live alone, which gave him great sadness and also a sense of empathy towards others less fortunate. After becoming a famous fortune-teller, Malzahar took joy in helping others make choices about their futures and guiding their lives to a better path. In spite of this, he was still unhappy, as his experiences with others made him see more and more of human misery. This made Malzahar lose hope in humanity, which led to him come to Icathia and embrace the Void.
As The Prophet Of the Void, Malzahar is fanatically devoted to the powers of the Void, regularly sacrifing entire cities to the Void.
Even though Malzahar (and Kassadin ) are both Shuriman their ties to the Void directs all their focus to the ancient city of Icathia and what lies within it.
Malzahar might be attempting to make Icathia rise again just like Azir did with the Ancient Shuriman capital. It is uncertain whether or not he is aware of the rise of the Ascended . Even if so, making way for the Voidborn takes precedence over a handful of actually mortal demigods that can be overrun by infinite hordes anyway.
Malzahar in turn lured Kog'Maw into Runeterra . It could be speculated the hivemind entity is the Mouth of the Abyss' 'Daddy', the 'Terror who is coming'. In short Kog'Maw might be foreshadowing a cataclysm on an interdimensional scale so large the Rune Wars will seem a children's brawl in comparison.
Bel'Veth is Malzahar's master, helping him in his goal to bring the Void to Runeterra in exchange for him providing her with sacrifices to assimilate.
The Prophet of the Void
By Michael Luo
Starring: Malzahar
Bel'Veth's Promise
Starring: Bel'Veth , Malzahar
Short Story
Feast of the Prophet
By Jared Rosen
Meir follows a crowd of cultists out of the prophet’s tent city, and down into a low valley at the edge of the desert.
Mentioned: Azir , Bel'Veth
The Mouth of the Abyss
By Unknown Author
Starring: Kog'Maw
Mentioned: Malzahar
The Void Walker
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Kassadin
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Malzahar
Whom Does the Desert Know?
By Laurie Goulding
Shurima is dying. I do not think she will rise again.
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Maokai is a rageful, towering treant who fights the unnatural horrors of the Shadow Isles . He was twisted into a force of vengeance after a magical cataclysm destroyed his home, surviving undeath only through the waters of life infused within his heartwood. Once a peaceful nature spirit, Maokai now furiously battles to banish the scourge of unlife from the Shadow Isles and restore his home to its former beauty.
When the Ruin broke out and the black fog began to cover the blessed islands, Maokai quickly tried to save all the sacred water he could by accumulating it in his roots and tried to quickly flee the islands but only managed to escape to the coast where he built a settlement.
The Twisted Treant
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Maokai
Mentioned: Isolde , Viego
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Nightbloom (Short Story)
The chill wind whips through cracks in my bark with a hollow whistling sound. I shiver. My limbs have long forgotten the warmth of summer.
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story
Art is Life
By Graham McNeill
Nights in Noxus were never silent.
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: Galio , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Mordekaiser
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Master Yi has tempered his body and sharpened his mind, so that thought and action have become almost as one. Though he chooses to enter into violence only as a last resort, the grace and speed of his blade ensures resolution is always swift. As one of the last living practitioners of the Ionian art of Wuju, Yi has devoted his life to continuing the legacy of his people—scrutinizing potential new disciples with the Seven Lenses of Insight to identify the most worthy among them.
Yi was born in the village of Wuju in the province of Bahrl in Ionia. His parents were swordsmiths and he longed to learn the ways of the sword after seeing warriors who carried blades with poems to their names enter his parents’ workshop. He spent the mornings sparring with his mother and his nights reciting poetry with his father.
Soon, he began to train under the Wuju masters. He surpassed all expectations and became known as the “Young Master” Yi. But he was always curious about the rest of Ionia. However, he was forbidden to leave the village with his blade because the Wuju sought to keep their swordsmanship a secret and believed it was too precious to draw blood.
This all changed when Noxus invaded. Yi decided to forego the Wuju traditions in order to defend his homeland. He was like a one-man army, sweeping the outsiders with blinding swordplay. He then journeyed with some of his fellow disciples to Navori, a critical location in the war.
The Noxians identified the Wuju as a threat that they could not ignore and used chemical attacks to destroy the village of Wuju. Yi returned the only surviving disciple, slain in spirit when he learned of what had happened to his home village.
Determined to not let the Wuju style to go extinct, he sought after many potential students to pass on the style.
Yi is a thin, agile man with tan skin and dark brown hair. He usually wears a goatee of varying lengths, sometimes long enough to be tied off at numerous points. There is a red rune seemingly tattooed on his forehead.
His slim-fitting armor typically features shades of silver, green, brown, and golden yellow. The most notable feature of his combat attire is a large helmet that covers his eyes with a cluster of seven greenish-yellow lenses.
Yi was trained by Master Doran .
Master Yi has a close teacher- student relationship with Wukong . As the last survivor of Wuju village, he taught Wukong the Wuju Style to honor the legacy of his lost home (although the Monkey King uses a staff rather than a sword).
The Wuju Bladesman
By Michael Luo
Starring: Master Yi
Mentioned: Doran , Wukong
Short Story
Returning once more to his home, Master Yi faces his past and prepares for what the future will bring.
Poetry with a Blade
By Mo Xiong
Yi frowned at Master Doran as the elder scrambled up the path toward him.
Starring: Doran , Master Yi
Mentioned: Xolaani
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Fast and Dumb
By Anthony Burch
When a life hangs in the balance, there are two options: slow and smart, or fast and dumb.
Starring: Wukong
Mentioned: Master Yi
The Monkey King
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Where the Heavens Touch the Earth
By Numerous creators
Starring: Fiora , Janna , Master Yi
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Music Video
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Wandering Spirits
Maybe this is the year. Sett leaves home once again to find his akana father, the Spirit of Abandonment. Will the spirits along the path lead him away? Or will he finally find the way back to his mother?
Starring: Sett
Mentioned: Master Yi , Syndra , Tristana
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Milio is a warmhearted boy from Ixtal who has, despite his young age, mastered the fire axiom and discovered something new: soothing fire. With this newfound power, Milio plans to help his family escape their exile by joining the Yun Tal—just like his grandmother once did. Having traveled through the Ixtal jungles to the capital of Ixaocan, Milio now prepares to face the Vidalion and join the Yun Tal, unaware of the trials—and dangers—that await him.
Before Milio was born, his grandmother Lupé and her twin sister Luné both strove to join the Yun Tal through passing the Vidallion's trials, with Lupé being a master of earth while Luné mastered fire. However, Luné was caught plotting treason against the Yun Tal and imprisoned while Lupé and her family faced punishment by proxy of Lupé being her twin. Exiled to the furthest reaches of Ixtal , Lupé and her family lived in a faraway village that would eventually become Milio's birthplace.
As Milio came of age, Lupé started to teach him how to master the elemental axiomata. Unlike the rest of the family, Milio showed great potential as a prodigy of elemental magic but struggled to understand the discipline that came with it. Disappointed, Lupé eventually gave up on Milio's teachings but he still trained his own abilities in private. Abandoning the rigid restrictions of the teachings of his grandmother, Milio eventually learned how to control fire, the only element Lupé avoided out of spite against her twin sister. However, Milio began to question the capabilities of the fire axiom and instead believed it had potential for more positive effects rather than destructive ones.
One night, Milio was chasing a group of fireflies when he noticed a village huntress who was left badly injured and unable to move. Milio rushed to help her by keeping her stable with his fire axiom, but it wasn't enough. Knowing that the healer would've been too far away to arrive on time, Milio tried as hard as he could to shape his powers into a force that could heal. Milio felt the huntress' inner flame , a feeling of warmth which he began to sense in the nature all around him. Focusing all of his concentration on that warm and cozy feeling, Milio manifested his fire magic into a small fire elemental which was able to heal the huntress' wounds.
Having discovered a new axiom which he named "soothing flames," Milio went home to tell his family about what he had done and showed off his new ability to summon his signature fire elementals, dubbed " fuemigos ". While his family celebrated, Lupé was astonished by Milio's success in mastering the fire axiom despite going against the traditional teachings and discovering an entirely new axiom. Seeing his potential to undo the burdens placed on the family by her sister Luné, Lupé dedicated herself to teaching her grandson how to master his newfound abilities, preparing him for a journey to Ixaocan in order to restore the family's honor. Though he was nervous to endure the long trip by himself, Milio was motivated purely by the love he had for his family. For his journey, he and Lupé fashioned a backpack to store his fuemigos which he dubbed his "furnasita" and got a new set of clothes made by his family members. At the age of 12, Milio left his village and began his journey to Ixaocan, travelling across Ixtal while sending letters to his family about his adventures.
Milio travelled through the jungle when he noticed a young cougar who was injured. Wanting to help, Milio used his fuemigos to heal the cougar and the cat repaid him with affection. They both took a nap under a sun spot until they were found by Nidalee , the fearsome Kashdaji Queen as told in scary stories across Ixtal. The young cougar was revealed to be a pakaa and a member of her pack. While initially distrustful towards Milio for being a human, Nidalee began to warm up to him and allowed him travel with the pack for a short while, befriending Nidalee and her pack. Milio eventually left for a nearby village having a bonfire in order to continue his adventure, but hoped to see Nidalee again someday.
At the village, Milio found a lot of hurt people and, using his soothing fire powers, tried healing as many as he can. Unfortunately, Milio was unable to heal everyone and a few villagers were too injured to be saved. Luckily, Milio was able to make their final moments warm and comforting. Despite being able to save lots of people with his powers, Milio began to become discouraged due to the villagers he lost and continued his journey. Throughout his journey, Milio encountered many other sights while hopping around many villages on the pathway to Ixaocan. At one point, he encountered a lady made of plants who Milio heard rumors of in a nearby village as well as a giant moving rock . Eventually, a shapeshifting vastaya named Neeko smelled the scent of the pakaa on Milio and, becoming curious, attempted to play a prank on him by shapeshifting as Milio himself. Milio eventually befriended Neeko, learning about her tribe and language before continuing on his journey. Throughout his travels, Milio became a legend amongst the Ixtali as "the boy with the soothing flames." [ 1 ]
Drawing on Milio's last letter to his family, depicting his triumphant arrival in Ixaocan .
Finally making it to Ixaocan, Milio explored the wondrous capital city of Ixtal, amazed by the many sights. However, Milio has begun to notice that people are staring at him; spying on him. Unbeknowst to him, stories about his adventures caught the intrigue of his grandaunt Luné, who has been incarcerated deep below the city all this time without his family's knowledge. Despite all this, Milio eagerly began his training so that he may one day face the Vidalion and hopefully restore the honor of his family.
Milio is a prepubescent Ixtali boy with tan skin, amber eyes and curly black hair. He wears a red Ixtali poncho made by his family with shoulder guards. On his back, he wears his signature furnasita; a white cone-shaped knapsack with highlights made of green jewels. His furnasita holds a large fuemigo; a round fire elemental with ring-shaped eyes and a crest on its forehead.
Milio is incredibly compassionate and caring for others, using his abilities to heal and soothe wounds and expresses deep remorse when he's unable to save people. He cares deeply for others and has been capable of befriending lots of people on his journey to Ixaocan. However, he cares the absolute most for his family; his driving force for his whole journey in the first place. Though he has been at odds with his grandmother Lupé at times, especially during his training, he wishes to fulfill her wishes and regain honor to his family even if he seems content with how his family is living currently. [ 2 ] Though a natural prodigy of elemental magic, he lacks the rigid discipline that Ixtali practitioners of magic typically have as he struggles to grasp the rules of his grandmother's training.
Milio is very playful and kind when he speaks to others. He is very forward thinking and focused on his journey to one day best the Vidalion, speaking on how he wants to grow big and strong one day once he grows up and trains his magic enough. Because of his dedication and love for his family, he often mentions and talks about them a lot, especially his parents and his grandmother Lupé.
Milio has a great bond with all of his family members, ranging from his parents to his siblings as well as his many cousins, all of whom he grew up with in his home village outside of Ixaocan. They celebrated his accomplishment after he discovered an entirely new axiom when healing the wounded huntress. They made him the clothes that he would wear on his journey and continuously praise and encourage him.
Milio speaks about his family very often, speaking highly of them and describing his extremely close and friendly relationship with each of them. He has seemingly befriended almost every member of his family, all of whom act as his driving force and motivate him to continue his journey. During his travels, he exchanged letters with his family to keep in touch with them, inquiring with them about their lives while he was away and often stating how he misses them and wants to make them proud.
Lupé is Milio's grandmother and the one who initially tried training him in his elemental magic. Though she noticed his natural affinity for magic, Lupé actually stopped training Milio as he couldn't follow the traditional disciplines of the axiomata. Once Milio showed promise in the fire axiom, which she actively refused to teach him out of spite against her sister Luné, Lupé put her grudge aside and saw the potential in her grandson. Lupé helped prepare Milio for his journey to Ixaocan in order to showcase his natural abilities and restore honor to her family, creating his signature 'furnasita' and resuming his training.
Milio very dearly loves his grandma, or 'omele,' and is strictly motivated in making her proud once he restores the family honor. He often mentions her on his travels, stating how proud she'd be to see him now. On top of that, he speaks very highly of his omele, describing her as very strong and similar in personality to Nidalee , the fearsome Kashdaji queen he met on his travels. [ 1 ] Lupé is almost entirely focused on Milio's potential to restore the family's honor at Ixaocan, perhaps even disregarding her own family's feelings about it.
Luné was imprisoned beneath Ixaocan before Milio was born, meaning she never got to meet her grand-nephew in person. However, after he gained fame across Ixtal as the 'boy with the soothing flames', she caught word of the stories about him and recently found out he made it into Ixaocan after his long journey.
Milio's fuemigos serve as his main companions, as they are literal manifestations of his fire magic come to life. He carries a large one within his furnasita and often deploys smaller ones to heal and soothe wounds with their warmth.
Milio considers his fuemigos as his best friends and, despite their inability to verbally communicate, ventriloquizes the fuemigos with a higher-pitched voice to reinforce his own thoughts.
Milio used to hear stories of Nidalee as a frightening creature to be feared named the Kashdaji queen, but met her in person during his journey to Ixaocan after he healed one of her pakaa. While initially distrustful towards him at first due to his human nature, Nidalee grew a fondness for the boy and allowed him to travel with her pack for a while to the next village. She calls Milio her 'fire bug' and considers him an honorary pakaa. Milio left the pack on friendly terms with Nidalee, noting that she appears as extremely harsh and fearsome on the outside but was capable of seeing the genuine softness underneath her tough exterior. [ 1 ]
Milio encountered Zyra on his travels, having initially heard stories about her in a nearby village and thinking of them as nothing but scary stories to tell to children. Though he saw Zyra from a distance, he immediately noticed how dangerous her plants looked and knew not to greet her and endanger himself. However, he notes in his letter to his parents that, despite her frightening appearance, he wishes he could say hi and befriend her. [ 1 ]
Milio encountered Malphite on his travels, initially noticing the large mountain in his way despite it being nowhere on the map. Milio investigated the strange appearance of a new mountain and discovered Malphite's face and saw him begin to move. He didn't directly greet Malphite however, despite seeing him as extremely friendly, as he didn't wanna risk being stepped on. [ 1 ]
Neeko noticed Milio because of the scent of the pakaa on his clothes, as he traveled with Nidalee's pack temporarily before leaving. Because Neeko was very close with Nidalee, she wanted to investigate and shapeshifted into Milio as a prank, amusing the boy and sparking their friendship. As the two traveled for a bit, Neeko shared lots of details about her language as well as her tribe that she's slowly creating, offering a home to any people in the jungle without one.
Milio considers Neeko a new best friend and notes that he wishes he could help her on her mission to create a new tribe but prioritizes traveling to Ixaocan to restore his family's honor instead, wishing her farewell. [ 1 ]
The Gentle Flame
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Milio
Short Story
Milio's Super-Special Adventure Reports
Greetings, family! It is I, Milio, with my first official Adventure Report!
Mentioned: Malphite , Neeko , Nidalee , Zyra
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A Bilgewater captain famed for her looks but feared for her ruthlessness, Sarah Fortune paints a stark figure among the hardened criminals of the port city. As a child, she witnessed the reaver king Gangplank murder her family—an act she brutally avenged years later, blowing up his flagship while he was still aboard. Those who underestimate her will face a beguiling and unpredictable opponent... and, likely, a bullet or two in their guts.
Sarah Fortune was born to the famous weapons manufacturer Abigail Fortune (her father's name is unknown), and lived with her mother in Bilgewater. Her mother taught her to make weapons of all kinds, the most prominent being firearms. Little Sarah's life was quite happy and pleasant, until the well-known looter Gangplank went to her mother's business to demand that she create two powerful pistols, to which Abigail accepted and said that in a year she would have them made.
After a year Gangplank returned but had no intention of paying Abigail. She finished the pistols and he took them from her, then proceeding to shoot Abigail, her husband, and finally Sarah. He went on to destroy the Fortunes' workshop, but miraculously, Sarah survived. With the little strength she had left, she managed to escape from the fire along with her mother's guns. Her body had recovered, but she began to suffer night terrors and post-traumatic stress from the incident, as well as an intense thirst for revenge.
When she reached adolescence, Sarah with her mother's weapons already repaired plunged into the world of crime, committed her first murder which had a great reward, Sarah saw a few other flyers of criminals and after a few days she claimed all the rewards for their heads,little by little Sarah began to build her reputation and began to be feared and respected by the inhabitants of Bilgewater, and they started calling her Miss Fortune.
Sarah, determined to take revenge on Gangplank, began to look for allies and little by little began to gain more power, until she was finally able to face Gangplank, Sarah devised such an ingenious plan which caused the fall of Gangplak and without him she finally took the throne of the city.
Miss Fortune along with her crew try to negotiate with the other captains of Bilgewater who previously served Gangplank, if the captains refused, Sarah killed them and kept her crew.
Miss Fortune tried to negotiate with a captain about joining her, but he refused and Sarah ended up killing him. Although she didn't mind killing captains, she was tired because none of them cooperated with her.
Miss Fortune is an incredibly beautiful woman with a slim and voluptuous build, light skin, pale green eyes and her most prominent feature is her long, wavy scarlet-red hair.
Normally she wears somewhat revealing clothes, consisting of a white blouse with seperate long sleeves, with a dark green vest that reveals her abdomen, black bell-bottom pants, black high-heeled boots and wears a black pirate hat on her head.
Sarah is a born and calculating leader, she usually uses her beauty and wit to get what she wants. She is usually quite flirtatious and lascivious when speaking, but she is really a dismissive and ambitious woman, however, she shows great concern for her followers and allies, being able to give her life for them or even avenge them.
Miss Fortune survived Gangplank's murder attempt which killed her mother and plotted to avenge her mother's death. She hired Twisted Fate to rob Gangplank's warehouse while also tipping off Graves about it. Both men acted as a massive distraction so that she could make final preparations to land the killing blow on Gangplank . When they later returned to Bilgewater in search of the Abyssal Crown, they angered a sea witch in the process. Miss Fortune, who had her quartermaster caught by the same witch, tricked and captured them both and then gave them to the witch in exchange for her quartermaster, but then helped T.F. and Graves escape. Graves holds a grudge against Sarah but still thinks she is impressive.
Between Burning Tides and Shadow and Fortune , Miss Fortune is purging Bilgewater of all those loyal to Gangplank after the power vacuum his 'death' caused (she is sure she can make Bilgewater prosper if the people are united under her banner). At one point before Gangplank's 'death', him and Miss Fortune struck an uneasy truce in order to fight off the Harrowing , right on the shores of the Serpent Isles , in 'The Battle of Knife Straits'. They were successful (despite heavy casualties and their combined fleet scattering), while farther south Nautilus managed to fight off the rest of the undead.
During the events of Shadow and Fortune , Lucian and Miss Fortune encountered each other in a recent Bilgewater 's Harrowing . They both fought the undead from the Shadow Isles and parted way in friendly terms. She intended to persuade him to help her claim Bilgewater .
She encountered Olaf but did not think much of him.
Illaoi protected Miss Fortune from the Black Mist and Hecarim . Unknown to Sarah, Illaoi secretly helped Gangplank reclaim the city, while also intending to test her in the near future.
During a shootout between Miss Fortune and a rival captain's crew, Ryze got caught in their conflict and helped her out.
Based on her Legends of Runeterra voice lines, Miss Fortune may have gone to Piltover at some point and gotten involved in some accident through which she met Vi and Caitlyn .
During the events of Ruined King , Ahri , Illaoi , Braum , Pyke , Yasuo and Miss Fortune travel to the Shadow Isles to confront Viego in order to protect Bilgewater. Viego would try to sway her to his side with the promise of power, but her will proved stronger and she sealed him inside a Buhru artifact.
However, Miss Fortune would eventually accept Viego's offer, when the Sentinels of Light came to Bilgewater, becoming ruined in the process. She had accepted his offer because she had grown desperate after months of fighting against Gangplank. [ 1 ]
The Bounty Hunter
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Miss Fortune
Mentioned: Gangplank
Short Story
Burning Tides: Act 2
By Alison Hawkes , George Krstic , Anthony Reynolds Lenné , John O'Bryan
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Burning Tides: Act 3
Burning Tides: Epilogue
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Dead in the Water
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Destiny and Fate
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Ah, Bilgewater.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Rafen
Double-Double Cross
Down on the slaughter docks, Miss Fortune springs a trap for wanted criminals Twisted Fate and Graves… but soon finds the tables turned against her.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Down Among the Dead Men
Bilgewater's White Wharf had earned its name thanks to the layer of bird waste covering it from end to end, which was only to be expected at a resting place for the dead. Folk here didn't bury corpses; they returned them to the sea. A grave of the sunken dead hung suspended in the cold depths, marked by hundreds of bobbing grave-buoys. Some were merely name posts, while others were elaborate tomb markers carved to resemble rearing krakens or buxom sea wenches.
Fortune Smiles
By Anthony Burch
Bilgewater. A haven for Runeterra's most notorious monster hunters, mercenaries, and scoundrels. For decades, a ruthless pirate named Gangplank kept the city in check. Under his merciless rule, Bilgewater was an orderly place to make a dishonest living. But now Gangplank is dead. Murdered, by a crimson-haired bounty hunter seeking vengeance for her parents' deaths. Bilgewater has descended into chaos. Only the woman who killed Gangplank can save it. Her name is Sarah. They call her Miss Fortune.
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
Her back's to the wall. Bad luck for them. There's only one way out alive, and they aren't taking it.
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Call of Power
Ryze scours Runeterra for fragments of a forgotten past, each step bringing him closer to incredible power—and terrible ruin.
Starring: Ryze
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Nasus , Sona , Trundle
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Double Down
All eyes in Fortune's Glory were on Twisted Fate. He felt the gambling hall's many patrons regarding him with a mixture of envy, vicarious excitement, and spiteful longing for him to lose everything on the turn of the last card.
Starring: Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
League Animation Workshop
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Darius , Lux , Miss Fortune , Zed
Tales of Runeterra
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
Truth Bearer, this is why we must retreat to Buhru. We cannot save the paylangi' the Hierophant said. The heavy-set woman grinned, obviously pleased by the prospect of leaving Bilgewater.
Starring: Gangplank , Illaoi
Mentioned: Graves , Miss Fortune , Nagakabouros , Twisted Fate
The Saltwater Scourge
Starring: Gangplank
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Swain
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
KAISA_EXOSUIT_LOADER.log
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune
Payback is a Goddess
Ten years ago, a great civil war stretched across the galaxy.
Star-Crossed: Embrace
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
First light after the Harrowing
Though the Black Mist fades and the souls it claimed will soon forget their past, the threat of the fell tide will not be forgotten. Worse than all previous years, those who lived are left to wonder where it will return, and whether anyone will survive when it does.
Mentioned: Gangplank , Hecarim , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Nautilus
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Light and Shadow
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Twice slain and thrice born, Mordekaiser is a brutal warlord from a foregone epoch, who uses his necromantic sorcery to bind souls into an eternity of servitude. Few now remain who remember his earlier conquests, or know the true extent of his powers—but there are some ancient souls that do, and they fear the day when he may return to claim dominion over both the living and the dead.
Sahn-Uzal was born millennia ago in the land that would later be known as Noxus. Upon reaching adulthood, he became the leader of his tribe of barbarians, the Noxii, who were known for their cruelty and brutality in battle. Over time, his tribe expanded further to such an extent that they became a single army. Finally they settled down and built a great kingdom, with Sahn-Uzal becoming their respective sovereign.
Mordekaiser appears to be a massive suit of animated armor with no visible trace of humanity save for two spectral teal eyes. Rigid and angular, the black metal plates that comprise his form are enormous, featuring three large spikes on each shoulder and two "horns" from the helmet. The armor seems to pulse and glow with the bright teal color of necromantic magic. He also wears a dark red loin cloth and a tri-pointed cape, faded and tattered.
His oversized mace, Nightfall, is colored identically to his armor and is spiked outward in four directions.
Mordekaiser is a brutal warlord that desires to conquer everything and destroy all those that stands in their way.
Given Sahn-Uzal (Mordekaiser when he was human)'s faith in the Hall of Bones, it's safe to say his culture did not have a Kindred myth; which would explain why he was never claimed by them.
Mordekaiser tortured Veigar , who would later mimic him after his downfall.
LeBlanc , another from his inner circle, was instrumental to his downfall. She is preparing to banish him when he returns to keep The Immortal Bastion for herself.
Januk tasked Ezreal to obtain The Elixir of Uloa with which he would be able to resurrect Mordekaiser. However, Ezreal intentionally gave him a fake vial and left Januk while stealing an old Ochnun bell.
While it's not directly confirmed, it has been implied Mordekaiser may have a certain level of awareness about Viego's actions and is waiting to benefit from them once he decides to return. [ 1 ] It has been confirmed if they were to directly fight, Mordekaiser would likely win.
The Iron Revenant
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Mordekaiser
Short Story
The Final Reign
A raised fist. A surge of necromantic power. Before him, the final spire of the final tower takes form, inky smoke coalescing into black iron.
Art is Life
By Graham McNeill
Nights in Noxus were never silent.
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: Galio , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Mordekaiser
Ezreal's Field Notes
By Matthew Dunn
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Katarina: Issue 5
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
The Aspect of Twilight
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Zoe
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Mordekaiser
The Crimson Reaper
By 'Blood Magicks'
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Swain
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Curator's Gambit
Look, I should be clear—I didn't want anything to do with “the dread lord,” or whoever Januk was talking about. I was just trying to sell this stupid little vial to the guy who asked me to get it for him. Should have been easy.
Mentioned: Mordekaiser , Sona
The Deceiver
By David Slagle
Starring: LeBlanc
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Mordekaiser , Swain
The Eyes and the Embers
By Conor Sheehy
Starring: Gregori Hastur , Tybaulk
Mentioned: Atakhan , Fynn Retrick , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Telsi
The Iron Maiden
By Jared Rosen , David Slagle
Starring: Rell
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser
The Spider Queen
Starring: Elise
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Vilemaw
The Tiny Master of Evil
By Michael Luo
Starring: Veigar
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
Thorns of the Black Rose
By Laurie Goulding
I smile, playing my part. “It is the simplest of things,” I tell him, “to hide in plain sight.”
Starring: Brannin Granth , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Mordekaiser , Swain
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Pentakill: Smite and Ignite
The era of metal has begun.
Starring: Karthus , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Shadows of Damnation
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The Black Mist coiled and twisted like a living creature as it rolled forward to encircle the isolated, grey-stoned castle.
Ambition's Embrace
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
First light after the Harrowing
Though the Black Mist fades and the souls it claimed will soon forget their past, the threat of the fell tide will not be forgotten. Worse than all previous years, those who lived are left to wonder where it will return, and whether anyone will survive when it does.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Gangplank , Hecarim , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Nautilus
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Conflicted between her celestial and mortal natures, Morgana bound her wings to embrace humanity, and inflicts her pain and bitterness upon the dishonest and the corrupt. She rejects laws and traditions she believes are unjust, and fights for truth from the shadows of Demacia —even as others seek to repress it—by casting shields and chains of dark fire. More than anything else, Morgana truly believes that even the banished and outcast may one day rise again.
Morgana and her twin sister Kayle were born on Mount Targon during the height of the Rune Wars to Kilam and Mihira , the current Aspect of Justice. Due to Mihira ascending while pregnant, the sisters were born with a fraction of her celestial power. As the war raged on, Mihira's celestial power began to overshadow her personality and affections as she dedicated more and more of her time to her duties as an aspect. Fearing what Mihira was becoming, as well as the enemies drawn to her light, Kilam resolved to take their daughters to safety. He fled Targon with his children and they would sail to the land that would be known as Demacia .
The sisters grew to having distinct and clashing personalities. While Kayle was arguing about the settlement's rules, Morgana would empathize with the newly arrived refugees.
One day, Mihira's sword would fell from the sky and clash into two. From that moment, feathered wings bursted from the sister's backs and remained, confirming the celestial magic would still remain inside them. While Kayle embraced her new power, Morgana resented her gifts. One day, the settlement was attacked, and the sisters flew to aid the people of Zeffira . While Kayle was busy dealing with the frontline attack, Morgana learned of a hidden wave of enemies attacking the city and left the frontlines to aid the citizens. After the battle Kayle lost trust in her sister for leaving her on the battlefield. Since that day, they were hailed as the Winged Protectors.
Morgana and Kayle at the gates of ancient Demacia.
Kayle and Morgana put on their armors and helmets, and stood against an army before the city walls. They easily destroyed the first wave. Sensing the danger approaching in the skies, the Winged Protectors took flight without hesitation and engaged in a deadly battle with Aatrox , who managed to possess a new host. Aatrox was too powerful to be defeated physically for the sisters. As the last stand, Morgana left her sword behind, and stood against Aatrox, binding him with her chains of dark flame. Taking Morgana's sword, Kayle empowered her wings and sword with celestial flames and burned the mortal body of him, sealing Aatrox within his own blade.
Warriors flocked to Kayle's banner at Silvermere's Peak, where she founded a judicator order to enforce the law, and hunted down rebels and reavers with equal fervor. Kayle allowed Morgana to rehabilitate wrongdoers who appeared humble enough to admit their guilt. However, some people in the Judicator Order and especially Ronas, one of Kayle's ardent disciples, decided to arrest Morgana and her followers when Kayle was bringing justice upon a distant kingdom ruled by a cruel, unrighteous king. In an attempt to protect her followers, Morgana conjured magical chains of fire and bound him until he fell dead. His death led to an outbreak of riot in the settlement.
Morgana and Kayle fighting in the sky above Demacia.
When Kayle found out what happened, she became enraged and with her power she summoned divine fire to punish the sinners and Ronas' killer. Morgana flew up to meet her, the two dueled in the sky, knocking down columns where they passed and killing people without realizing it. It seemed that one of them was eventually going to win but Morgana faltered because she and Kayle heard their father's screams and stopped fighting. Their father was mortally wounded, Morgana hurled her sword at Kayle through tears, and plunged to the surface like a meteorite to cradle her father.
She took her dying father in her arms, and in a sea of tears, cursed her heavenly inheritance for the destruction around her. A moment later, Kayle landed too, and between sobs Morgana asked her if the purification of mortals by smiting included her father. Kayle kept silent, grabbed Morgana's sword and soared into the heavens without looking back, disappearing. Morgana, hurt, tried to tear off her wings because now they were a reminder of her pain, she tried everything to remove them but could not do it, so she decided to tie them with steel chains to walk in the world of mortals. Morgana was known since then as the Veiled Lady.
Over time, Morgana's role as one of the Winged Protectors of Demacia would fade into obscurity, with few knowing that there were in fact two protectors. Instead, Morgana would become known as the Veiled Lady or the Veiled One, a deity that Demacian's would pray to in order ensure their loved ones passed safely into the afterlife. Morgana would walk the realm, embracing mortals and enacting justice when needed.
One day, a cleric and his pupil entered the woods to find the Veiled One, for the Pupil had erred. After listening to them, The Veiled One chained the sinful cleric for hitting the pupil in front of her eyes and forced him to endure all the shame, suffering, and loneliness he had inflicted on his pupils. On another day, she saved two girls from the men with swords, asking question about their village, and threatening them.
She currently resides in Sacred Woods outside of Demacia, waiting for the day she is needed again.
For centuries, Morgana has tried to find her sister, and written down her findings on her journal. A Solari warrior reported a sighting of a winged creature on the peaks of the mountain, ascending higher. A wind mage said that a bright flame streaked through the air, spinning away faster and faster. A Demacian noble was convinced that the Winged Protector was still alive, so he sent out rider to track her. After decades, the riders found a single white feather beneath Targon. A Lunari child, in the middle of the night, said that he saw a winged ghost, flying around the mountain. Yet, his mother did not believe him.
Many centuries passed, Morgana heard a voice. A lonely, so distant prayer. She had no idea where it came from, but she was so sure that Kayle was praying to her. However, her prayers remained unanswered.
Morgana welcoming Nilah in her sanctuary.
Nilah came to Morgana, bruised and bleeding after the battle with Volibear . Morgana welcomed Nilah and her crew in her sanctuary, offering them healing for their wounds and much needed breathing place. The crew confided in the Veiled One, and shared their stories and missions. However, their meeting was interrupted all of a sudden.
Outcast and imprisoned mages -who escaped the ship of Mageseekers-, and the followers of the Veiled Lady were under persecution by the Mageseekers. They were trying to reach the sanctuary, yet one of them got caught. Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). ordered his fellows to take Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and the others back to the ship, and then up Mount Targon after the rest of them.
Morgana did not waste any time to come to their rescue, and bound the oppressors with her shackles to feel the weight of their sins. Morgana saved and led them to her sanctuary. The Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). ensured that sanctuary seekers on the slopes of Mount Targon completed the journey unscathed, whereas the protector was hit by a number of arrows. Morgana might have saved Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , one of the outcast mages who lost her family, and she’s raising her now.
When the rebellion of the mages of Demacia broke out, Sylas , one of the most powerful mages of the rebellion , decided to go into Sacred Woods to find the Veiled Lady in search of power and knowledge for his cause. She told him that he should fight with her as a test to have the knowledge. After the fight, Morgana refused to give Sylas the information he was looking for, because she saw that in his heart there was only vengeance and hatred.
As Sylas makes his way to the Veiled Lady's refuge, he reflects on how he failed to save Leilani. When he reaches Morgana, Sylas finally understands why he failed her test, his rage and vengeance alone isn't enough to win them this war. Seeing him humbled by his failures, Morgana, satisfied and ready to give Sylas her blessing, shows him the true origin of Demacia.
Sylas realizes Morgana was one of the Winged Protectors, alongside her sister Kayle. When he asks why she doesn't reveal herself, Morgana replies that if she returned, so would her sister, and Demacia isn't ready for her judgment. She then presents him with one of her sister's feathers and uses it grant him her blessing, the ability to show the vision of Demacia's foundation.
Now, the people of Demacia know that there were two Winged Protectors during the foundation of the nation, since Sylas showed the vision to the common folk.
Morgana is a slim and curvy young woman with dull pale skin, dark purple short hair with a bang on the left side, bright violet eyes with makeup runnings, pointy ears, dark purple lipstick and four wings on her waist and two wings on her nape that vary in black and purple colors. She was ascended on her thirties, so her aging has stopped since then.
Her attire consists of a long dress that matches the color of her wings, revealing her arms and neckline, leaving her back uncovered, and with various chain ornaments behind her wings and hips.
Contradicting everything they think of her, Morgana is not the "evil twin"; she is just an incarnation of the other side of justice, while her sister Kayle represents blind justice, Morgana represents compassionate justice that consists of listening to reasons first for the sinners' actions before deciding whether or not to punish them. Indicating that Morgana is fair and compassionate towards people.
At first she rejected her celestial powers and that caused them to become corrupted, but she sees them as a perfect weapon to punish in a fair and compassionate way, so as not to forget her humanity and her emotions. Since she could not cut her wings, she tied them. Having her wings tied together symbolizes that she still has humanity inside her and although Kayle is her rival, deep down she still loves her and wishes that one day they can be together again as sisters and not as enemies.
Both Morgana and Kayle are twin siblings, Kayle being the older of the two. Their relationship soured after the event that lead to the death of their father. Morgana chooses not to return to Demacia because she knows her sister would return as well. [ 1 ]
Mihira is Morgana's mother. It is implied that Morgana does not love her mother, blaming her for causing her father pain and distress after becoming an Aspect. However deep down she still loves her and misses her but refuses to acknowledge it partly because of her pride.
Aatrox and Morgana fought approximately a millenia ago. At the end of the battle, Aatrox was sealed within his blade.
Nilah and Morgana met in the not-so-distant past. Whereas Morgana felt Nilah's pain, she found strange her everlasting jubilance.
Sylas knows certain truths about the sisters and calls out their power during the events of Lux comics . Morgana aided Sylas in defeating the Mageseekers by revealing her true identity and giving him her blessing.
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Morgana
Mentioned: Kayle , Mihira
Short Story
Canticle of the Winged Sisters
By Graham McNeill
Born beneath the vault of stars, one in Light, one in Shadow. Kayle and Morgana, Sisters by Fate, joined hand in hand
Starring: Kayle , Morgana
Prayer to a Crumbling Shrine
Guilt can teach many things to a heart humbled by intent.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
Fragile Legacies
By Dana Luery Shaw
I was young and unafraid, heart aflame with the sort of righteousness that cast out all shadows of doubt, on the day I first met Barrett Buvelle.
Starring: Eldred , Jarvan III , Quinn , Sona , Tianna
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan IV , Kayle , Morgana
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
In the wake of disaster, Lux risks all for the sake of a wounded soldier.
Starring: Lux
Mentioned: Garen , Morgana
Lux: Issue 2
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
Lux: Issue 4
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
The Righteous
Starring: Kayle
Mentioned: Mihira , Morgana
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Lunar Guardian
There was an age when darkness smothered all hope. A traveler arrived, late into that twilight hour, bearing with him the first light of dawn.
Starring: Caitlyn , Morgana , Wukong
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Shadow of a Doubt
Star Guardians have a brilliant light, but some stagger in the darkness. Can Akali escape her own nightmares?
Starring: Akali , Morgana
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Quinn , Rell , Taliyah
Unite Against The Dark
Hear the story of Lunar Empress Lux, Lunar Guardian Nasus, and Lunar Guardian Warwick as we celebrate the Year of the Dog in League of Legends.
Starring: Caitlyn , Lux , Morgana , Nasus , Warwick
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Across the sands of Shurima , a chorus of howls rings out. It is the call of the dune hounds, voracious predators who form packs and compete for the right to hunt in these barren lands. Among them, one pack stands above all, for they are driven not only by canine instincts, but by the ancient power of the Darkin .
Naafiri began as one of the many Ascended God-Warriors of Shurima , having achieved Ascension at an unknown point in the past. As a part of the Ascended Host, Naafiri fought alongside her fellow God-Warriors when the city-state of Icathia began their uprising . During this war, she witnessed the horrors of the Void as the Icathians attempted to weaponize it, scarring her mind. [ 1 ]
After the Shuriman Empire fell due to the sudden and disastrous death of the emperor Azir , the many Ascended renamed themselves Sunborn and violently clashed with one another due to the lack of leadership and purpose. Their battle brought so much devastation that the mortals eventually began to call these Sunborn Darkin , an old Shuriman word which most closely translated to The Fallen .
During the Great Darkin War , Naafiri was considered one of the more powerful among them and sought out to lead the rest of her kind. Her pride and vanity got the best of her when she was easily tricked by Myisha, the Aspect of Twilight , who imprisoned Naafiri inside one of her steel throwing daggers.
While imprisoned within a dagger, Naafiri was hidden within a Shuriman crypt and left unable to move or speak due to her newfound curse. Inert and left to dwell on her shame and regret, Naafiri suddenly felt an eager anticipation when she sensed a human presence nearby. She intended to posess the body of this grave robber, but the man was well aware of Naafiri's magic and made careful efforts not to make contact with the blade. Using tongs to pick it up, he wrapped Naafiri in a thick, lead-lined cloth and rode off across the desert that afternoon.
Naafiri despaired over her thwarted plan to escape her confinment, but saw an opportunity when she sensed the howls of a pack of Shuriman dune hounds across the desert. She called out to the beasts, hoping they would be driven to the grave robber and allow her to possess his body. The man made efforts not to touch the dagger, holding it through the thick fabric of the lead cloth, but was ultimately ravaged by the ravenous hounds as they tore him and his horse apart. In that moment, the hounds attempted to devour Naafiri and, upon contact, Naafiri felt the sudden rush of senses return to her as she completely possessed the entire pack of dune hounds, shattering her consciousness across all of them.
Initially, Naafiri resented her new form and cursed the beasts that encompassed it. She considered the hounds as nothing but feral animals and despised their smell, fleas and their need for companionship among each other. Over time, Naafiri felt a sense of enlightenment as she realized the true strength and wisdom that comes with being a collective. Apart, the hounds would quickly starve to death, but together they could easily become apex predators.
With newfound wisdom thanks to her new form, Naafiri realizes that the concept of a collective overpowering all living things was not limited to just her dune hounds, but could easily be applied to the likes of the Darkin as well. Realizing that the Darkin ultimately fell due to their petty, personal grudges with one another, Naafiri wishes to locate her fellow Darkin siblings and restore their place as the rightful and violent rulers of Runeterra.
Now, Naafiri stalks the Shuriman deserts in hopes of unifying the rest of her Darkin and becoming the ultimate apex predator. Her pack acts with perfect unity and stalk the pitch black Shuriman nights, ravenously feasting on anyone they find as she continues her quest.
Naafiri's "primary" body is that of a monstrous, vicious-looking dog with numerous large, blade-like spikes protruding from her shoulders. Like other Darkin, she appears to have tough, ridged, armor-like skin: primarily black with red accents and an area of white around her lower face. She has bright yellow eyes. Naafiri's most prominent facial feature is the infused dagger. The dagger also has a golden spike ornament dangling from a chain, and she is shown to wear it as an earring on her left ear.
Her packmates are slightly smaller dogs with a simpler color scheme: solid red with areas of black on their tails and the tops of their heads. They also only have one blade-like spike protruding from their heads.
Naafiri wants the Darkin to become the dominant lifeform on Runeterra again. As a means to power, she has abandoned her idea of self, allowing her consciousness to inhabit multiple bodies. [ 2 ] Due in part to her canine hosts, she is vicious and bloodthirsty, with a bestial instinct to hunt and kill.
During the Darkin War, Naafiri fought against her fellow Darkin with the intent to become their leader. After her epiphany, she believed that strength in numbers could even apply to Darkin as their infighting only weakened them, so she strove to reunite with her fellow Darkin and show them her philosophy, so they could rule over Runeterra.
Naafiri initially resented Myisha for imprisoning her, but since being enlightened by her new hosts she expresses thanks towards Myisha's successor Zoe after her imprisonment led to Naafiri's own benefit.
While imprisoned in the crypt, Naafiri's dagger was found by a raider whom she intended to make her host, but due to him knowing about the Darkin's assimilation abilities he took precautions to avoid making contact with her. Out of desperation, she called to the nearby pack of dune hounds to make the man slip so he would be able to touch her, but they ended up killing him and so she ended up assimilating the hounds instead.
While Naafiri was being held by the raider, she noticed a nearby pack of dune hounds and influenced them to attack him so she would be freed. Once she ended up assimilating the pack instead in the scuffle, she initially felt disdain towards the hounds for their lack of hygiene and their need for companionship. But over time, she realized that the hounds' cooperation made them more powerful than an individual, which gave her an epiphany to unite the other Darkin in a similar way.
The Hound of a Hundred Bites
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Naafiri
Hounds of Iron
Her pack will always find the lone prey. So, the choice is yours: starve or feast.
Short Story
By Graham McNeill
Varus followed a river running through the desert. Its water was gritty, but drinkable. The new body he had wrought to bear his bow was beautiful, fast and strong, but it came with the weaknesses of flesh. It hungered. It thirsted.
Starring: Varus
Mentioned: Kai , Naafiri , Nasus , Renekton , Valmar
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Music Video
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A headstrong young vastaya of the seas, Nami was the first of the Marai tribe to leave the waves and venture onto dry land, when their ancient accord with the Targonians was broken. With no other option, she took it upon herself to complete the sacred ritual that would ensure the safety of her people. Amidst the chaos of this new age, Nami faces an uncertain future with grit and determination, using her Tidecaller staff to summon the strength of the oceans themselves.
Nami was born and raised in the territory of the Marai , a tribe of Vastaya that live underwater in the sea on the coastline of Mount Targon . Nami grew up to be a stubborn but fierce fighter, but it often got her in trouble. She aspired to become the tribe's Tidecaller, a title given to a strong warrior who would go into the depths of the sea to find a pearl. The Marai would give this pearl to a group of humans in exchange for a moonstone, a glowing rock that would ward off dangerous creatures from the deep sea. A Tidecaller is titled and sent on their quest whenever the moonstone's light starts to dim. The deep sea is wrought with dangerous creatures, so the warrior titled a Tidecaller must be strong enough to survive them and find the pearl.
During Nami's adolescence, the moonstone in the center of the Marai's village began to dim. Nami attempted the trial of the Tidecaller, but she was denied due to her impulsiveness. Instead, another warrior named Rasho was sent down into the deep sea to retrieve the pearl. But after a month, Rasho had not returned. Determined to prove herself and save her people, Nami took her mother's staff and plunged into the depths.
After several days, Nami returned with the pearl and Rasho's staff. She was designated Tidecaller by her people and she went to the surface to trade with the humans for the moonstone. However, when she arrived to the surface, a woman told Nami that the Aspect of the Moon , the person that made the moonstones, had fled Targon and as such they could not give them the stone. Nami then vowed to find the Aspect and retrieve the moonstone. Then, Nami used the Tidecaller staff to summon a perpetual pool of moving water underneath her fins and set out on her quest.
Nami is a slender Vastaya Marai , with green scales and sand-colored skin, long hair with a distinct palette of yellow, and a long fin instead of legs. She wears no clothes, her body is covered in green scales. The most distinctive ornament on her attire is the Tidecaller crown, which is dark and has a light blue amulet in its center on her head. She carries with her the Tidecaller Staff .
Nami is a very kind and friendly individual, but she is also extremely protective and determined in her duty to protect her people, the Marai and she is loyal to her cause.
Nami is in a bisexual polyamorous relationship with Loto and Tama . [ 1 ] Nami refers to Loto as "My heart" and also refers to Tama as "My soul". Tama refers to Nami as "Pele'ai" means "Beloved one", a term of close endearment. Loto refers to Nami as "Beloved".
She is searching for the Aspect of the Moon , which is the only one that can create the Moonstone her people need to survive. Nami refers to Diana as "Luminous Wanderer", "Child of the moon" and "Marai's light".
Nami is friends with Fizz and is implied to personally know his pet shark Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value).
Nami is currently the Tidecaller of the Marai tribe. She is the emissary of everyone in the tribe as Tama , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Loto and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
The Tidecaller
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Nami
Mentioned: Diana
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
First Steps
She brings her curiosity and a dire message. They bring torches and a violent fear.
Into the Abyss
Deep in the oceans of Runeterra, the Marai are protected from terrors by the light of a moonstone. Through an ancient ritual, the Marai choose one of their people to dive into the abyss and retrieve an abyssal pearl, which is exchanged with a landwalker for the moonstone. Their chosen Tidecaller has not returned. Nami, a headstrong girl of the Marai, decides to descend into the black before the moonstone's light dims forever…
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Nasus is an imposing, jackal-headed Ascended being from ancient Shurima , a heroic figure regarded as a demigod by the people of the desert. Fiercely intelligent, he was a guardian of knowledge and peerless strategist whose wisdom guided the ancient empire of Shurima to greatness for many centuries. After the fall of the empire, he went into self-imposed exile, becoming little more than a legend. Now that the ancient city of Shurima has risen once more, he has returned, determined to ensure it never falls again.
Nasus is a humanoid figure with the head of a jackal. He is tall and muscular with glowing blue eyes and a body covered in short black fur.
He wears golden, ceremonial armor with teal highlights, and much of his body is wrapped in pale bandages. His war staff Curator's Gatebreaker is teal and gold with a brown leather grip.
Thoughtful and reclusive, Nasus is an imposing, solemn presence, bearing all the power, wisdom, and sorrow that comes with millennia of life. Primarily a keeper of knowledge, he is not one to rush to violence despite being a fearsome combatant.
When the Shurima Empire still existed, Nasus fought alongside other Ascended hosts including those that would later become the Darkin . Nasus was a warrior scholar who spearheaded the military and cultural uprising of Ancient Shurima, but Azir's misled arrogance led to the empire's downfall, costing him his own brother Renekton . Nasus was forced to imprison his own brother with the betrayer Xerath , who would later drive Renekton into madness. After being freed, Renekton started to hunt down Nasus, believing he was the cause of all his suffering. Nasus hopes he can cure Renekton of his madness, so that the united brothers might defeat Xerath and restore Shurima to greatness together with their resurrected emperor Azir .
Nasus first sought Sivir for her royal bloodline and finds in her the hope of a reborn Shurima and the key to defeating Xerath . Nasus would later confront Xerath himself to buy time for her and Taliyah to escape alongside other citizens.
Nasus encountered Taliyah when she was protecting an injured Sivir. Nasus would later confront Xerath himself to buy time for her and Sivir to escape alongside other citizens.
Myisha, the previous Aspect of Twilight , led the Darkin Ta'anari to Nasus who guided them to the Chalicar, the blade that belonged to the Ascended queen Setaka and belongs to Sivir in the present day, which Ta'anari later used to perform a ritual that reverted the Ascension of the nearby Darkins, vaporing them.
Long before Shurima rose again from the sands, Ryze and Nasus delved into a ruined archive beneath the Great Sai and fought its awakened protector.
The Curator of the Sands
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Nasus
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Xerath
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
By Graham McNeill
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Empires of the Ascended (Video)
A buried empire. A brother’s betrayal. A relic that could change everything.
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton
Fall of the Empire
By Numerous creators
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton , Xerath
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Ryan Verniere
Nasus walked at night, unwilling to face the sun. The boy followed in his wake.
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Call of Power
Ryze scours Runeterra for fragments of a forgotten past, each step bringing him closer to incredible power—and terrible ruin.
Starring: Ryze
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Nasus , Sona , Trundle
Short Story
Varus followed a river running through the desert. Its water was gritty, but drinkable. The new body he had wrought to bear his bow was beautiful, fast and strong, but it came with the weaknesses of flesh. It hungered. It thirsted.
Starring: Varus
Mentioned: Kai , Naafiri , Nasus , Renekton , Valmar
Darkness Renews
Am I a god?
Starring: Renekton
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Xerath
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Halfway Between the Stars and Earth
By Katie Chironis
It was a perfectly good night for a cup of tea. Chilly, certainly, but clear—as crisp a night as frigid Mount Targon ever got, really. Soraka was expecting a visitor. The snow in the stone kettle had already begun to melt over the hearth at the center of her little yurt; as it grew warmer, the room was suffused with the smell of dried tea leaves and sparse mountain herbs.
Starring: Soraka
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Nasus , Pantheon
Starring: Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus
There's light under the earth, if you know where to look.
Starring: Kai'Sa
Rise of the Ascended
Discover the tale of Ancient Shurima, where the fates of Azir and Siver intertwine.
Starring: Azir , Sivir
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
The Butcher of the Sands
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Sivir , Xerath
The Emperor of the Sands
Starring: Azir
Mentioned: Nasus , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
The Magus Ascendant
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
Short Story • 25 Minute Read
Twilight of the Gods
They came to a dead city in the mountain's shadow under cover of night.
Starring: Naganeka , Zoe
Mentioned: Aatrox , Azir , Nasus , Rhaast , Varus
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Firewood was precious in the desert, but the blackened ruins of Vekaura offered a plentiful supply of charred timbers to hurl on bonfires.
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
Unite Against The Dark
Hear the story of Lunar Empress Lux, Lunar Guardian Nasus, and Lunar Guardian Warwick as we celebrate the Year of the Dog in League of Legends.
Starring: Caitlyn , Lux , Morgana , Nasus , Warwick
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Music Video
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A lonely legend as old as the first piers sunk in Bilgewater , the armored goliath known as Nautilus roams the dark waters off the coast of the Blue Flame Isles . Driven by a forgotten betrayal, he strikes without warning, swinging his enormous anchor to save the wretched, and drag the greedy to their doom. It is said he comes for those who forget to pay the "Bilgewater tithe", pulling them down beneath the waves with him—an iron-clad reminder that none can escape the depths.
To understand the legend of Nautilus, one must first know the man—for even the tallest of tavern tales agree, he was indeed a man.
Though the waves have washed away the name he was born with, most remember Nautilus as no mere sailor, but as a salvage diver. Just beyond the southernmost reach of the Blue Flame Isles lies a graveyard of ships, rumored lost while searching for a blessed land, looking to trade wealth for immortality. On a fair day, their glittering holds beckon from beneath the surface. Many crews sought divers to collect the lost fortune, and none could match the skill of the quick-sinking hulk of solid muscle that was Nautilus.
With lungs that could steal the air from a galleon’s sails, Nautilus preferred to freedive. Always bringing up plenty of gold or jewels for the crew, the man demanded no special wages—he asked only that the captain toss a coin overboard as they set out, honoring and appeasing the vast ocean. A sailor’s superstition to be sure, but many a sea-fearing crew made such offerings to ensure a safe return.
Years of salvage depleted the easy treasure, each haul becoming less and less, until one day Nautilus’s crew learned that their ship and working papers had been bought out from under them.
The dawn was scarlet the morning the new captain came aboard. Hailing from a foreign port, he brought with him a giant suit of brass and iron. He zeroed in on Nautilus; indeed, he had purchased the command because of Nautilus. It was clear the captain was obsessed with a specific wreck, one shrouded in darkness even on a fair day. The diving armor could withstand the pressures of the ocean floor far longer than any man, long enough to collect what was hidden in the abnormal murk.
The crew agreed working was better than starving, and Nautilus found himself being bolted into the suit, the wooden deck groaning under the load. Panic rose in his throat when he realized that they had nothing to pay the tithe. The foreign captain laughed as Nautilus was lowered into the water. He assured the crew that whatever the Bearded Lady was protecting would make them all rich beyond their wildest dreams. When Nautilus returned to the surface, they would make their silly sacrifice.
As Nautilus sank, the light above dimmed, and all grew quiet, the man’s own breath the only sound echoing in the iron suit. Then something reached out from the depths. He was being pulled down, and for the first time Nautilus felt liquid fear wrap itself around his heart. It was not treasure his captain sought, but some slumbering, eldritch power.
Nautilus grabbed the anchor chain, his last connection to the world above, and hauled himself up even as the thing below sought to drag him down. But the weight was too much. Just as his giant metal fingers were about to breach the surface, the chain snapped. Nautilus screamed within the suit, but none could hear him. He tumbled back into the inky maelstrom, clutching the sinking anchor in desperation. Dark tendrils enveloped him, and he could only watch as the dimming outline of his ship faded away. Then everything went black.
When Nautilus awoke on the ocean floor, he was something… different. The darkness could no longer hurt him. The great metal suit had become a seamless shell around him, concealing the bond that the primordial power had made with his spirit. Trapped in the sunless depths, he could remember only one thing—the new captain’s broken promise.
Nautilus vowed, there and then, that all would pay the ocean’s tithe. He would see to it himself.
Driven ever forward by this thought, he trudged toward the shore. But by the time he reached Bilgewater, years had passed, and he could find no traces of his captain or crew. There was no life to which he could return, no revenge he could take. Instead he returned to the sea, allowing his anger to surface on the greedy, gutting their ships with his mighty anchor.
Sometimes, in the tumble of waves, distant memories of who he was push up above the waterline… But always the man who is Nautilus stays drowned just below the surface.
Even as a human, Nautilus was described as a large man, a "quick-sinking hulk of solid muscle." After he drowned, Nautilus awoke even larger, a spirit housed without his great metal diving suit that had grown into an enormous, titanic monstrosity who was larger than most ships, with massive metal gauntlets and giant boots that pounded across the seafloor. Having sat beneath the waves for centuries, Nautilus's suit has grown rusted and brown and covered in cracks and barnacles. His eyes are visible from within the dark casing as glowing orange lights, and the cracks in his suit glow with an eerie, ghost-like green colour, emphasizing his nature as an undead. As a weapon he carries an enormous anchor attached to a line, which he uses to sink ships below the waves.
Nautilus was a very superstitious man in life, and he would never set out to sea without first appeasing the vast ocean by "paying the tithe". He maintains this mindset after becoming a revenant, and will sink any ship that crosses his path should they forget to drop a coin into the ocean. Nautilus never tires of this mission, making him dutiful but also ruthless and vengeful against those who would disrespect the sea, but generally spares those who show the Bearded Lady proper reverence.
Nautilus has a slow, deliberate manner of speaking. He likes to make his voice as deep as possible, so as to intimidate people. He is also a very old and ancient being who appears to miss his youth as he watches the excitable young sea creatures in the ocean around him.
While the Gangplank - Miss Fortune combined armada fought the Black Mist on Bilgewater's shores (eventually succeeding but at great cost) Nautilus managed to stall and/or defeat the rest of the undead threat a few miles from the port city itself.
Nautilus hates Fizz and would like to see him dead.
The Titan of the Depths
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Nautilus
Short Story
Dead in the Water
By Graham McNeill
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Rise From the Deep
Best keep an eye out for what lurks in the depths.
Starring: Nautilus , Pyke
The Ophidian
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
No, no, that seat's not taken. Pull up a chair, and sink a few, friend... Though that might be a poor turn o' phrase, given my history. Heh.
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Lucky Kraken
Eh! Well, 'allo there, young 'uns. Shouldn't you cheeky little sprats already be a-bed? What's that? You want a suppertime story from old One-Legged Lars, eh?
Starring: Fizz
Mentioned: Nautilus
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
First light after the Harrowing
Though the Black Mist fades and the souls it claimed will soon forget their past, the threat of the fell tide will not be forgotten. Worse than all previous years, those who lived are left to wonder where it will return, and whether anyone will survive when it does.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Gangplank , Hecarim , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Nautilus
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Hailing from a long lost tribe of vastaya , Neeko can blend into any crowd by borrowing the appearances of others, even absorbing something of their emotional state to tell friend from foe in an instant. No one is ever sure where—or who—Neeko might be, but those who intend to do her harm will soon witness her true colors revealed, and feel the full power of her primordial spirit magic unleashed upon them.
Neeko is a vastaya born in the Oovi-Kat tribe, who lived on a remote island far to the east of Valoran . The Oovi-Kat retained most of their ancient heritage, tracing their lineage back to the vastayashai'rei —the ancestors of all vastaya. The Oovi-Kat lived in a peaceful and harmonious paradise that blended into the spirit realm . Because of this, the Oovi-Kat had a talent in sensing the Sho'ma , or 'soul' of living beings, creating a society free of secrets. Neeko grew up in this tribe with a fondness for games and trinkets, growing a sense of innocence and curiosity for all things.
When an undisclosed cataclysm devastated the Oovi-Kat, the elders of the tribe sacrificed themselves to allow some of the remaining vastaya to escape with their lives. Neeko, being among them, took the form of a bird and fled the smoldering destruction as her home faded into the border between realms.
Days later, Neeko became exhausted and clung to a plank of driftwood in the Eternal Ocean . She eventually came across a mercantile vessel travelling for Harelport and crept aboard, resting where she could and calling into the spirit realm for her tribe. The only response she could get were scattered echoes and images of dead trees laying over the horizon.
When the vessel arrived in the city, Neeko emerged in an unfamiliar world bustling with unique personalities and shapes that were completely alien to her. Neeko became entranced with curiosity and wandered with awe, eventually being spotted by a vastayan sailor named Krete. He demanded to know what tribe she was a member of and, in response, Neeko reached into his Sho'ma and mimicked his appearance; an expression of friendliness and peace in Oovi-Kat culture. Krete became offended and frightened by Neeko's shapeshifting and, overwhelmed by his thoughts, Neeko fled into the crowd.
Neeko eventually traveled out of Harelport and into the lush jungles of Ixtal . Seeking solace, she spotted a pack of pakaa from the trees; fierce and majestic jungle cats native to the forests. By taking their form, Neeko ran with them across the jungles. While enjoying this cougar-like form she took, the leader of this pack unexpectedly shapeshifted into a seemingly human woman named Nidalee . After a tense standoff, Nidalee reluctantly accepted Neeko into her pack.
Living within the pack, Neeko and Nidalee became inseparable as some sort of relationship blossomed between them, feeling a deep sense of kinship for Nidalee. For months, Nidalee enjoyed mentoring Neeko in the art of survival within the jungles and the two enjoyed wandering the wilds together. [ 1 ] Though Neeko began to feel intense romantic feelings for her new friend, these feelings went mostly unrequited, though still blossoming with lots of potential.
Though Nidalee despised the towns and cities of the civilized people, Neeko constantly felt an urge to curiously explore them and she longed to explore more of the world outside of the jungles. One night, Neeko's Oovi-Kat ancestors came to her in a dream, showing her the pale branches of dead trees and acting as an omen of warning to Neeko of the danger her people are in. With this, Neeko vowed to recreate the Oovi-Kat as an entirely new tribe of her own, wishing to venture out to pursue this personal journey. Though she urged Nidalee to join her, she could not be persuaded and the two parted ways to follow their own quests.
Neeko continued her journey to rebuild the Oovi-Kat in her own way, welcoming all beings whether they be like-hearted vastaya, yordles , humans and other creatures. Those that join her tribe are easily befriended by Neeko, who in turn vows to defend their sho'ma with her own life.
While travelling, Neeko found herself at a Noxian Outpost at Kalduga . Curious to see if the Noxians were friendly, she snuck into the outpost and took the form of Ewaii, one of the patrolling soldiers at the outpost. While disguised, Ewaii's commander Yubbers began to yell commands at Neeko under the impression that she was in fact Ewaii.
Neeko then took a mote of Yubber's sho'ma, shifting her shape into his and confusing the soldiers even more. Eventually, Neeko got caught by the actual Yubbers and disappeared into a crowd of people while changing her shape. Mayhem ensued as the guards began to accuse one another and kill each other out of fear as Neeko snuck away. The soldiers abandoned the outpost completely, each going their separate ways and uncertainty of who was secretly Neeko all along. [ 2 ]
At some point, Neeko got captured by a band of Piltovan poachers led by Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . These poachers sought to catch and eventually sell exotic creatures of the jungles in hopes of making a large profit. A scientist who had been hired by the poachers named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , alongside her pet frog Froop, felt sympathy for the captured vastaya and devised a massive escape plan to free her. [ 3 ]
Successfully freed from her capture by the poachers, Neeko found herself back in the jungles and reunited with her old friend Nidalee. Neeko warned Nidalee of the poachers and the two planned to drive them out of the jungle. Under the cover of night, Nidalee and Neeko ambushed the poachers' encampment alongside the rest of the pakaa pack and some Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , driving them out of the forests. [ 4 ]
Neeko is a female vastaya that has a teen-like appearance and some characteristics of a chameleon, like scales and reptile eyes. She has very colorful hair with glands sprouting out of her head which she uses to capture others' Sho'ma. She wears tribal clothes and walks barefoot.
Neeko has a very jovial and fun-going personality. She is somewhat innocent and unaware the dangers that surround her. She does not comprehend most of human society and relationships, and some of the words, so she usually creates chaotic scenarios thanks to her naivety.
Neeko has spent some time with Nidalee and her pack. Though Nidalee wouldn't aid her in her further quests, they parted on relatively positive terms. Neeko is in love with Nidalee, and while the romantic feelings were unreturned, their interpersonal relationship is beginning to blossom. [ 5 ] [ 6 ] The two care for each other deeply and Neeko is perhaps the only person outside of her family whom Nidalee would risk her life for.
Neeko mimicked Ezreal in the jungle during his search for The Elixir of Uloa .
The Curious Chameleon
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Neeko
Mentioned: Nidalee
Short Story
The Monster of Kalduga Outpost
Neeko was familiar with the shapes of humans, and while they had their quirks—socks for instance… why?—they never struck her as particularly strange. Not until the outpost at Kalduga.
Ezreal's Field Notes
Who needs a map?
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Ashe , Illaoi , Jax , Kindred , LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Nagakabouros , Neeko , Rek'Sai
Milio's Super-Special Adventure Reports
By Elyse Lemoine
Greetings, family! It is I, Milio, with my first official Adventure Report!
Starring: Milio
Mentioned: Malphite , Neeko , Nidalee , Zyra
The Bestial Huntress
By Michael Luo
Starring: Nidalee
Mentioned: Neeko
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Music Video
Light and Shadow
By Numerous creators
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Raised in the deepest jungle, Nidalee is a master tracker who can shapeshift into a ferocious pakaa at will. Neither wholly woman nor beast, she viciously defends her territory from any and all trespassers, with carefully placed traps and deft spear throws. She cripples her quarry before pouncing on them in feline form—the lucky few who survive tell tales of a wild woman with razor-sharp instincts, and even sharper claws...
As a cub, Nidalee was left abandoned in the heart of the eastern jungles that border both Ixtal and Shurima . Though her true origins and how she got to the jungle remains unknown, she was eventually found by the mystical pakaa; cougar-like wildcats native to the jungles. The mother of this pack, roaming with her cubs, sensed a mysterious yet familiar scent on Nidalee and accepted her without hesitation, bringing her back to her den.
Raised in the pakaa pack and treated as one of their own, Nidalee learned to hunt with her teeth and claws, becoming a capable huntress an honorary member of the pack. As she grew up, Nidalee would randomly enter strange moments of temporary half-transformation as her form shifted into a vaguely humanlike appearance. One night, Nidalee underwent a transformation that caused her to get a fever. Wandering out of the den and delirious, she followed hazy visions of two mysterious figures whispering comforting words to her before fading away. Though she learned from her pakaa siblings to beware outsiders, she felt a sense of comfort from these mysterious figures despite their outsider appearances.
At the height of the summer rains, a group of vastayan Kiilash hunters stalked the jungle in search of prestigious beasts to slay and trophies to collect. Angered by the invasive outsiders on their territory, Nidalee's packmother attempted to chase them away but became wounded by the hunters' blades and spears. Before they could deal the killing blow, Nidalee lunged from the undergrowth and pounced on the Kiilash, howling with rage as she tore into them with her claws. Suddenly, she felt the spirit of another heritage rise within her, completely transforming her pakaa body into that of a humanoid figure. Cornered by the hunters and stuck in a strange new body, Nidalee quickly grasped one of the hunters' javelin spears and used the weapon agaisnt them. Angered by her interruption of their hunt, the Kiilash spat out curses in their vastayan language, which Nidalee found she could inexplicably understand partialy.
After the Kiilash fled, Nidalee held her dying adoptive mother in her arms and grieved. Her fellow pakaa siblings surrounded her, wary of her new form but calmed by the comforting scent Nidalee carried. With their packmother now dead, the pakaa willingly accepted the mysterious shapeshifting Nidalee as their new leader.
As packmother, Nidalee vowed to protect the jungles from hunters that threatened her pack and her home. Overtime, she learned to better control her mysterious shapeshifting powers, learning to shift between both forms instantaneously. Nidalee also began to grow more adept with her strange humanoid form, learning how to take advantage of the environment to craft new tools, traps and even healing salves completely unknown to the pakaa. Though she still considers the pakaa as her family, she secretly yearned to discover her true origins and learn more about her shapeshifting abilities, hoping to one day find another being similar to her.
When the Oovi-Kat Neeko infiltrated Nidalee's pack by curiously taking the shape of a fellow pakaa and leaping across the jungle with them, Nidalee noticed the strange impostor and shifted into her humanoid form. After a tense standoff between the two, Nidalee introduced herself and reluctantly accepted Neeko into her pack.
Neeko lived with Nidalee's pack for months, allowing the two to develop a strong and loving relationship with one another. The two felt a kinship unlike anything before, as Neeko felt a strong connection to Nidalee's vastayan heritage. Nidalee often mentored her new companion on the ways of surviving the jungle, while Neeko shared stories and culture of her Oovi-Kat tribe. The two were inseparable, often exploring the jungle together and enjoying its many wonders. At some point Neeko began to feel strong, romantic feelings for Nidalee, which went mostly unrequited for a time. However, Nidalee still shared a deep love for Neeko that she herself cannot fully understand, possibly blossoming into something more for their relationship.
Eventually, Neeko began to get mysterious visions of her ancestors and sought to follow them. Feeling drawn to the cities and towns of the outsiders that Nidalee despised, she sought to form a new tribe of her own and urged Nidalee to join her. Unfortunately, Nidalee could not be persuaded and the two departed as Neeko sought her own destiny beyond the jungles while Nidalee continued her duty of protecting the untouched wilderness of her home. [ 1 ]
Continuing her protection of the jungles, Nidalee became infamous within the villages and communities of civilized outsiders that she despised. Because of her reputation for leaving very few alive whenever they trespass in her territory, stories about Nidalee began to circulate, describing her as a frightening, shapeshifting beast woman known as the Kashdaji Queen.
While patrolling the jungles one day, Nidalee found a reptilian vastaya caught in a trap laid by a hunter named Percy. Distracting Percy with her human-like appearance, she shifted into a pakaa cougar and pounced on him, threatening Percy to leave the jungles or die. Percy, now injured with a wound from Nidalee's spear, quickly fled the scene alive, frightened by the beast woman he encountered.
Nidalee tending to Kuulcan's wounds after freeing him from a hunter's trap.
Nidalee proceeded to free the vastaya from the trap and heal his injuries, bandaging his tail and shoulder. The vastayan, introducing himself as Kuulcan , began to question Nidalee's heritage despite her insistence of being a fellow vastaya. Kuulcan however was not convinced, stating that he has never met a vastaya that resembled her before, which Nidalee brushed off and ignored before inviting Kuulcan to accompany her and her pack for a hunt.
That night, Nidalee and her pack followed Percy to his camp, where he told stories of his encounter to the rest of his colleagues. His fellow hunters however did not believe Percy's accounts of this 'beast woman' and instead pranced around singing lude songs about her. Out of the darkness, Nidalee and her pack quickly killed the rest of the hunters because of their unwillingness to leave her territory before Nidalee herself confronted Percy in pakaa form, stating again that she already warned him to leave before viciously killing him. [ 2 ]
A drawing made by Milio as part of his letter back, writing back to his family about how he met Nidalee and joined her pack for a time.
Nidalee made another friend with an outsider when she found one of the pakaa cubs taking a nap with a young Ixtali boy under a sunspot. Though initially distrustful of the boy for being a human outsider, she quickly warmed up to him when its revealed that he actually healed the cub with his magic. Learning the boy's name as Milio , she allowed him to travel with the pack on his journey to Ixaocan , quickly befriending him and considering him another honorary cub of the pack. Nidalee accompanied Milio until he reached a nearby village, where he departed from the rest of the pakaa and continued on his journey. [ 3 ]
After Neeko got captured by a band of Piltovan poachers led by Captain Rowain , she was quickly freed by the scientist Anura and found herself reunited with Nidalee and the rest of her pack. [ 4 ] Having already encountered the poachers, Neeko warned Nidalee about them, stating that they were scouring the land for rare beasts to capture and hunt.
Wishing to protect her home and the wildlife, Nidalee gathered Neeko and the rest of the pack to plan an ambush on the the poachers' camp. When it turned night, Nidalee and her pack ambushed the camp, killing most of the poachers and freeing the captured wildlife to help them in the battle, such as the mighty towering Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . [ 5 ]
Nidalee is a dark-skinned woman with black hair, emerald green eyes, white tribal markings on her body and a green gem on her forehead. She often wears a pair of earrings fashioned from sharp animal teeth, a necklace adorned with teeth and usually wields a spear with markings on its tip adorned with four animal teeth and a rope on the back. Her usual appearance depicts her with her hair tied into a ponytail, a belt fashioned from animal teeth tied together, revealing clothing made from animal hide and thick fur boots.
In her cougar form , Nidalee retains the green eyes, markings and forehead gem shared with her human form, but instead wears a leather collar adored with animal teeth on her neck.
Nidalee is a fearsome huntress who embraces the nature of the wild and takes enjoyment from hunting prey. She is protective towards her pakaa and the jungle they live in, being distrustful towards outsiders who trespass into her tribe's homeland. She usually tries to intimidate them and chase them away, but won't hesitate to kill should they ignore her warnings.
Nidalee was adopted by a pakaa packmother when she was abandoned as an infant in the jungles. Though her origins are an enigma, she was accepted by the pack as one of their own and she grew up deeply loving the other pakaa as her siblings, or kupakaa . After her mother was killed by a party of Kiilash hunters, Nidalee became the pakaa's new packmother, having vowed to protect her family and her home from outside invaders.
Though Nidalee is unsure of what her true nature is, she knows that she has some connection to the vastaya, identifying as such whenever people ask what she is. When she first underwent a complete transformation, Nidalee inexplicably understood the natural vastayan language and retains her shapeshifting abilities from this heritage.
A hunting party of Kiilash were responsible for the death of Nidalee's packmother, ultimately causing her first full transformation and allowing Nidalee to take up the mantle of packmother. The Kiilash, angered for their hunt being interrupted, cursed at Nidalee in their vastayan language before running away.
Since then, Nidalee has developed a disdain towards the Kiilash, such as Rengar , seeking vengeance for the death of her adoptive mother.
When Neeko temporarily joined Nidalee's pack, the two became inseparable and formed an intensely loving friendship with one another. Nidalee gladly taught Neeko many survival skills and the two reveled in the many wondrous sights of the wilderness. When Neeko sought to fulfill her own journey, she urged Nidalee to follow but was unable to persuade her, causing them to depart as Neeko traveled outside of the jungles. When Neeko became freed from being captured by a band of Piltovan poachers, she reunited with Nidalee and the two ambushed the poachers under the cover of night.
Neeko shared, and possibly still shares, immense romantic feelings towards Nidalee, but these feelings went largely unrequited for a while as Nidalee remains unsure of what her feelings truly mean. Though she's not sure what her relationship with Neeko could blossom into, she's absolutely certain that she deeply cares for Neeko exclusively in a way she has never felt for anyone else. With them reunited, new feelings are beginning to arise as the two share an even deeper bond.
Nidalee met Kuulcan when he was trapped by a hunter named Percy. After freeing him and scaring the hunter into fleeing, the two conversed as Kuulcan questioned Nidalee's heritage, unconvinced that she is a simple vastaya and noting her unique nature. That same night, Nidalee invited Kuulcan to join her and her pack on a hunt, following Percy back to his camp and killing the rest of the hunters for not leaving her territory.
Nidalee dislikes almost all outsiders and 'civilized' peoples, most notably humans. Though her appearance is most similar to that of a human, she holds a disdain for them because of their constant hunting and poaching in her territory and actively denies any claims that she herself is just a human.
Because of the Piltovans' continuous hunt for resources in the jungles, they constantly expand and intrude onto Nidalee's territory, poaching the sacred wildlife for profit. Referring to them as brass-bones , Nidalee makes an effort to chase them out of her territory, willing to even kill to do so.
Most recently, Nidalee has faced off against a band of poachers led by Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , having a vicious hatred for one another as Rowain sees Nidalee as an obstacle in his quest to monopolize the beasts of the jungle. These poachers began capturing and hunting down many creatures in Nidalee's territory, which she only learned of after Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). freed a captured Neeko from their captivity and allowed her to alert Nidalee of the poachers. That night, Nidalee and her pack ambushed the poachers at their camp.
Percy is the hunter that Nidalee caught trying to capture Kuulcan, tossing a javelin into his shoulder and threatening him to leave. When he returned to his camp of hunters, they mocked him for his story about a mythical 'beast-woman' in the jungles, eventually leading to them getting ambushed by the pakaa and getting killed.
Nidalee first found Milio resting under a sunspot with one of the pakaa cubs. Though she was initially distrustful of the young human outsider, she instantly warmed up to him when she learned that he actually saved the cub by healing her with his magic. The boy accompanied Nidalee and her pack during his journey to the city of Ixaocan , quickly befriending the pack and Nidalee. Eventually, Milio made it to his next stop at the nearest town and had to depart from the pack.
Milio was aware of Nidalee from stories calling her the fearsome 'Kashdaji Queen,' but was ultimately surprised by how loving she truly is once you get to know her. Milio states in his journals that, because of Nidalee's strong personality, she reminds him of his own grandmother in a way. To Milio, Nidalee expresses a softer personality not normally seen by others, considering him an 'honorary pakiti' and even nicknaming him 'Little Fire-Bug.'
The Bestial Huntress
By Michael Luo
Starring: Nidalee
Mentioned: Neeko
Short Story
Human Blood
By Meaghan Bowe
A loud crack. The stench of grease, smoke, and powder.
Starring: Kuulcan , Nidalee
Milio's Super-Special Adventure Reports
By Elyse Lemoine
Greetings, family! It is I, Milio, with my first official Adventure Report!
Starring: Milio
Mentioned: Malphite , Neeko , Nidalee , Zyra
The Curious Chameleon
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Neeko
Mentioned: Nidalee
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Music Video
Worlds Collide
By Numerous creators
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Nilah is an ascetic warrior from a distant land, seeking the world’s deadliest, most titanic opponents so that she might challenge and destroy them. Having won her power through an encounter with the long-imprisoned demon of joy, she has no emotions other than unceasing jubilation—a small price to pay for the vast strength she now possesses. Channeling the demon’s liquid form into a blade of unparalleled might, she stands defiant against ancient threats long forgotten.
Though her original name is unknown, the girl who would become Nilah was born to a large family in Kathkan ; a nation that saw relative peace and no need for warriors after the fall of their violent neighbor Camavor . Growing up as a bookworm, the girl became obsessed with reading about the many stories and legends of Kathkani mythology including the fall of Camavoran king Viego , the creation of the first dragons and the origin of the universe . She was particularly interested in a story called The Cycle of Ashlesh , which told of a primordial demon named Ashlesh that consumed the extreme forms of joy. According to the legends, the demon was struck down by the gods when it tried to consume their realm , being imprisoned in a lake within the seventh layer of the Kathkani underworld and guarded by a secret order of heroes.
The emblem of the Seventh Layer, where the demon Ashlesh is imprisoned.
The girl was obsessed with finding this mythical order to stand among them as an equal and learn the truths behind the myths. By deciphering the many riddles within the stories of Ashlesh, the girl discovered that the order was hidden right underneath the heart of the Kathkani capital and set out to find them.
When the girl delved into the heart of the Kathkani capital to search for the order, she went missing and completely disappeared from all public knowledge. Evidence of the girl's existence faded away as written records of her true name evaporated and she faded away from the collective memory of Runeterra.
After ten years, the girl resurfaced and adopted a new name; Nilah, named after the legendary river of fate in Kathkani mythology. It's unknown what exactly transpired over those ten years, but some theorize that Nilah found and trained with the mythical order of heroes while others believe she battled the demon Ashlesh for ten years in the darkness. Some even believe that the girl never even reemerged at all and that Nilah is actually a demonic pretender wearing her flesh as a disguise. Nonetheless, Nilah reemerged with an imprisoned Ashlesh granting her both new abilities and a curse of perpetual joy suppressing all other emotions.
With newfound supernatural strength and a liquid blade formed by the power of Ashlesh, Nilah set off on a legendary quest to slay the greatest threats of myths she read about as a child. On her conquest, Nilah faced many foes such as the progenitor dragon Grandmother Viper, the demon of change Imago and the mad demigod Nabavelicus. With the powers of Ashlesh, Nilah faced greater and greater evils that could threaten the safety of her homeland in a flurry of water and color. In doing so, Nilah slowly grew as a legendary hero and monster hunter, hoping to make her name remembered by all that witness her great deeds.
The aftermath of Nilah's encounter with a rowdy band of Noxians at Oyster Bill's Oyster Shack.
After the Sentinels of Light defeated Viego, they imprisoned him within Camavor's capital city of Alovedra and bound him in Hallowed Mist placed by Gwen . [ 1 ] Nilah noticed Viego's imprisonment from Kathkan and discovered that the magic binding Viego to his prison had begun to fade. Viego's Ruination magic had adverse side effects that induces a frenzy-like state in all demons, potentially waking up Ashlesh's primordial demon siblings. Discovering this, Nilah sailed westward to find the Sentinels of Light, hoping they can help her find a way to keep Viego imprisoned.
Traveling across the Guardian's Sea , Nilah arrived in Bilgewater seemingly overnight and instantly began slaying giant sea serpents around the port city. Word quickly spread about her strange arrival and amazing feats as she became a celebrity monster hunter. Asking around Bilgewater for information about the Sentinels, she eventually rented out a room above Oyster Bill's Oyster Shack. While living at the shack, she would often get into dazzling fights with troublesome monsters or locals, such as a rowdy band of Noxians that knocked over her bowl of oysters. [ 2 ]
Nilah confronting the former Sentinel of Light , Malcolm Graves .
At some point, Nilah learned about the infamous thief Malcolm Graves , who was one of the Sentinels that helped imprison Viego. Fearing the strange and foreign monster hunter and unsure what she wanted with him, Graves spent weeks avoiding Nilah but eventually faced her in Oyster Bill's Oyster Shack.
While challenging him in combat, Nilah tried interrogating him about Viego and his imprisonment. Graves insisted that Nilah was better off asking his former Sentinel leader Senna and proceeded to fire his gun New Destiny at her. As she narrowly avoided it by hiding in a veil of magical mist , their fight was interrupted as a group of mercenaries entered the tavern with some Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . The mercenaries sought to collect the bounty on Nilah's head placed by their bosses, who were unhappy with the effects Nilah had on their serpent-hunting business. However, Nilah looked past the mercenaries and instead became interested in fighting the deep eaters, which she easily slew. After defeating the mercenaries and their monsters, Graves asked Nilah why she was so interested in Viego as she revealed that the magic keeping him imprisoned has begun fading. Graves explained that the Sentinels actually disbanded shortly after Viego's defeat and that he'd already pawned off his Sentinel gear. Knowing that Graves had no more information to give her, Nilah returned to her room to rest and continue her quest another day. [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
Nilah departing Bilgewater on her vessel the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). to face the Volibear .
After learning of a new monstrous threat in the Freljord called the Volibear , Nilah saw a perfect opportunity to test her skills once more. Setting off for a distant journey to the north, Nilah gathered a crew of fellow Kathkani monster-hunters and departed Bilgewater on her vessel Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . [ 5 ]
While sailing towards the north, Nilah and her crew faced off against an ancient sea monster named Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , also known as the Figurehead of the Deep. As Nilah sought to face more beasts on her journey to the Volibear, she gladly fought against Iascylla alongside her crew. [ 6 ] Though Iascylla proved as a worthy foe, the Tidedancer eventually sailed close to the port city of Piltover and gained the attention of the spirit goddess Janna , who used her powers over the winds to dispel Iascylla, protecting Nilah and pushing her away from the shores of Piltover. [ 7 ]
After leaving Piltover, Nilah continued sailing to the Freljord and landed on the shores of Lokfar . From there, Nilah traveled further north to a treacherous mountain pass where the Ursine , Volibear's most loyal followers, resided and offered blood sacrifices. [ 8 ] Finally facing off against the Volibear himself, the two engaged in brutal combat as Nilah personally challenged him to a duel, insulting Volibear as he saw her as a 'puny girl' with feeble power. The two battled as a violent storm raged and shattered stone mountains, which Nilah used to her advantage as she leapt across floating masses of rock. [ 9 ]
Morgana welcoming Nilah in her sanctuary.
After the battle, Nilah traveled to Morgana , bruised and bleeding after the battle with Volibear . She and her crew were welcomed in the Veiled Lady's sanctuary, healing their wounds and some much needed breathing space was offered to them. The crew confided in the Veiled One, and shared their stories and missions. However, their meeting was interrupted by the Mageseekers' pursuit of the outcast mages.
Nilah is a tall and slender woman with dark skin and an athletic, lanky physique. Her hair is dark brown in color, very long, and braided into two pigtails that meet at the bottom of her back in the shape of a circle. Her eyes are a bright violet color that changes to a pale blue when she uses her powers. Due to her curse, she has an almost permanent smile on her face that is seen as somewhat unsettling and even intimidating.
Nilah wears a yellow tunic with dark blue, baggy purple pants and a brown glove on her right hand. She has two earrings in the shape of large blue orbs on her ears and her left earring connects to a nose ring by a silver chain. Her outfit has many intricate details made of a dark silvery metal and styled with lots of hand imagery, something that ties her back to her home culture of Kathkan. On her hip she has a metal trinket shaped like two hands holding a bright blue orb made of glass and filled with prismatic water; the prison for the demon Ashlesh.
When Nilah was a young girl she was a shy bookworm constantly daydreaming about the many stories and myths she would read. She took a particular interest in the Cycle of Ashlesh and obsessed over finding the mystical order of heroes that the story spoke of. Having immense knowledge on the many myths of Kathkani culture, she was capable of discovering Ashlesh's prison the Kathkani capital and delved into it in search of knowledge and to become a hero alongside them.
Nilah was very different after her ten year absence; now cursed by Ashlesh with a permanent feeling of intense joy and the suppression of any other emotion. Nilah is actually aware of the emotions that are being suppressed but she cannot outwardly express them, such as how she laments the sorrow of having her very existence erased from her homeland. Despite this, she is a fearless heroine always aiming to save the helpless, especially her homeland. She is incredibly confident and obsessed with slaying giant foes both to reenact the many myths she read as a child as well as to test her own strength.
Nilah speaks with a consistently upbeat tone and happily recites many mantras and prayers from Kathkani culture even in the middle of combat. She has a signature laugh that is known to echo throughout the battlefield whenever she fights a foe.
Nilah initially read stories about Viego's fall and the eventual collapse of Camavor in books and myths. After Viego got imprisoned in Alovedra, his influence threatened Kathkan and drew Nilah's attention. She's more concerned with the implications of his ruination magic and how it affects demons , as Viego's ruinations causes them to go into mad frenzies and could potentially wake up the remaining primordial demons. Discovering Viego's imprisonment is what caused Nilah to travel westward in search of the legendary Sentinels of Light. [ 3 ]
Nilah is on an quest to keep Viego from breaking free in order to save her homeland and stop his ruinations from reawakening the ten primordial demons. To do this, she needs the aid of the legendary Sentinels of Light, whom she only read about in stories.
Nilah encountered Graves in Oyster Bill's Oyster Shack, tracking him down after asking around Bilgewater for information regarding the Sentinels of Light. Her investigation lead her to Graves, who she fought in an attempt to get information and convince him to help her on her quest. Its revealed that the Sentinels of Light actually disbanded shortly after defeating Viego, as Graves already pawned off his Sentinel gear away.
Nilah regards Graves as a friend and fellow hero of legend. Though its unclear whether or not Graves also regards Nilah as a friend, he has shown to be mostly freaked out by her, intimidated by the encounter but also intrigued as he sees her as a 'neat lady.' [ 3 ]
Fiddlesticks is one of the ten primordial demons that Nilah is concerned with keeping asleep. It is the eldest sibling of Ashlesh, the same demon that Nilah encountered and keeps trapped within a jar on her hip. Though Nilah recognizes Fiddlesticks, as well as all of the primordial demons, as a threat to the world, she is supremely confident in her ability to fight them back utilizing the power of Ashlesh. [ 10 ]
Oyster Bill is an oyster-man in Bilgewater who owns Oyster Bill's Oyster Shack. While gaining status as a famous sea-monster hunter in Bilgewater, she rented out a spare room in the shack and currently resides there. Oyster Bill often tells stories about Nilah and her amazing feats to the visitors of his shack, even allowing visitors to speak to her if they wish. [ 2 ]
The Joy Unbound
By Jared Rosen
Starring: Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Viego
Short Story
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
The Boys and Bombolini
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As an amalgamation born from the nightmares that haunt every sentient mind, the demon known as Nocturne has become a primordial force of pure terror. It is liquidly chaotic in aspect, a faceless shadow with cold eyes and armed with wicked-looking blades. After freeing itself from the spirit realm, Nocturne now continually descends upon the waking world, to feed on the kind of fear that can only thrive in true darkness.
Nocturne is made of pure, inky-black darkness, only vaguely humanoid with a head and two arms. Its fingers appear clawed and its head is featureless save for two solid white eyes. From the waist down, its body seems to dissolve into a plume of black smoke.
It is usually seen wearing armor, either purple or red with a gray trim. It wears a breastplate and two large, spiked pauldrons. Its signature weapons are a pair of massive blades attached to either forearm, both viciously curved with numerous points.
Nocturne is a demonic entity that thrives on the nourishment derived from fear induced by nightmares. This malevolent being possesses an intimate understanding of individuals' deepest fears, allowing him to expertly exploit and manipulate their vulnerabilities. In its pursuit of sustenance, Nocturne revels in the psychological torment it inflicts upon its victims, creating an atmosphere of profound dread and isolation.
In its insatiable quest for mortal fear, Nocturne revels in the perverse satisfaction derived from plunging the world into shadows. This malefic entity holds an innate disdain for the brilliance of light and seeks to envelop every soul it encounters in an eternal abyss of darkness. In this relentless pursuit, Nocturne spares no mercy for the innocent and remorselessly extinguishes life, all while feeding voraciously on the exquisite banquet of nightmares and the paralyzing grip of terror.
Nocturne terrorized the Demacian settlement of Fossbarrow until Garen and Lux expelled it from the neighboring tomb. It was sealed in the grave of their great-grandfather Fossian, who died during the fight versus Nocturne, before it was woken up by a mage boy named Luca.
Sylas used to hear tales about Nocturne when he was young. During the Great Mage Rebellion , Sylas encountered Nocturne in the woods, disguising itself as Morgana and admonishing him for the blood on his hands. Seeing through the demon's illusion, Sylas defeated Nocturne in battle, reverting to its true form and fading away.
The Eternal Nightmare
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Nocturne
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
By Graham McNeill
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Shadow Door
”Tell me another story.”
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Short Story
The Spirit of Copperwood Glade
By Jared Rosen
It is common in these dark days to speak of the Elderwood with some deference, as both the young and old know it as a place of great danger, filled with tricks and traps laid by the last true children of the wilds.
Mentioned: Hecarim
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
An unstoppable force of destruction, the axe-wielding Olaf wants nothing but to die in glorious combat. Hailing from the brutal Freljordian peninsula of Lokfar , he once received a prophecy foretelling his peaceful passing—a coward's fate, and a great insult among his people. Seeking death, and fueled by rage, he rampaged across the land, slaughtering scores of great warriors and legendary beasts in search of any opponent who could stop him. Now a brutal enforcer for the Winter's Claw , he seeks his end in the great wars to come.
Olaf grew up in the Freljord in the region of Lokfar , where battle and death was common and happened frequently. Olaf was a warrior and would often boast about the many battles he fought and won. However, his demeanor and lack of hesitation to share his many stories would anger and annoy some in his tribe.
After boasting one night about one of his many battles, Olaf was confronted by an elder warrior who told him to prove his worth and see what his future held for him, how he would die, whether in battle or peacefully of old age. Olaf accepted and was angered when his fortune told of a long life and peaceful death. Determined to achieve a warrior's death, Olaf traveled to battle a revered frost serpent who had slain thousands. However, the battle ended with the serpent slain and Olaf alive.
Olaf tried to find a warrior's death against many creatures, but when he became enraged, nothing could hurt or stop him, and he found that he was able to defeat every single beast that he challenged. During his pursuits, he even tried to battle the ghost of a Krakenwyrm during a Harrowing at Bilgewater . However, this endeavor only ended with the Krekenwyrm slain twice.
Resolving that no mere beast could beat him, Olaf decided to take on the Winter's Claw , the most fearsome tribe in the Freljord. He battled and defeated their most fearsome warriors before battling Sejuani herself. Their battle shook glaciers with its intensity until they reached a deadlock. Sejuani stared into Olaf's soul with such intensity that his frenzy was quelled long enough for her to offer him a place in her tribe and the warrior's death he had always hoped for.
During the period of Viego 's Ruination, after almost being killed fighting Vex , Olaf joined the Sentinels of Light in order to defeat Viego. He guided the Sentinels through the Freljord and returned to his normal life after Viego had been defeated.
With low resources and spread out forces, the Winter's Claw are bracing for the coldest winter in many years. After gaining knowledge from a man who claimed to have drank from the Great Cauldron of Ornn, Sejuani resolved to invade the land of Volibear and steal the Cauldron from him. With newfound resolve, the Winter's Claw continue to trudge on, battling the Ursine on their way through.
Olaf is an abnormally large fair-skinned man with toned muscles and a large ginger beard. He often wears a metal helmet with two large horns and various furs around his torso, wrists, and feet. He wields two axes tempered with True Ice that he uses constantly in battle.
Irritable and easily angered, Olaf lives for nothing but the heat and rage of battle. A competent fighter and fierce warrior, he is never scared to go into a fight and, in fact, enjoys it. More than anything, he is determined to obtain nothing less than a warrior's death fitting for as fierce a warrior as him.
Looking for his warrior's death, Olaf fought the Winter's Claw and defeated many of their warriors before fighting Sejuani. During the battle, Sejuani was able to convince him to join the Winter's Claw, and they now work together in order to accomplish Sejuani's goals of conquest and Olaf's goals of finally obtaining his warrior's death.
Olaf along with the rest of the Winter's Claw are on a mission to steal the Great Cauldron of Ornn from Volibear and the Ursine in order to survive the oncoming winter, which is told to be the coldest winter in ages.
While looking for a warrior's death in Bilgewater , a Harrowing commenced, prompting Olaf to fight the ghost of a Krakenwyrm that he had previously defeated. After being thrown away by the Krakenwyrm, Olaf traveled with Lucian , Miss Fortune , and their companions as they traveled towards the temple of Nagakabouros , a temple headed by Illaoi . While traveling, Olaf saw the undead Krakenwyrm and rushed to fight it again, abandoning the people he was traveling with.
After almost being killed fighting Vex , Olaf joined the Sentinels of Light (consisting of Akshan , Lucian , Senna , and Vayne ) along with Diana , Graves , Irelia , Pyke , Rengar , and Riven in order to defeat Viego , who had unleashed his Ruination onto the world. He guided the Sentinels through the Freljord and returned to his normal life after Viego had been defeated.
The Berserker
By Unknown Author
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Sejuani
Short Story
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Pentakill: Smite and Ignite
The era of metal has begun.
Starring: Karthus , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Olaf is a naturally large man, described as being as tall as a mounted Sejuani .
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a curious girl of flesh and blood, Orianna is now a technological marvel comprised entirely of clockwork. She became gravely ill after an accident in the lower districts of Zaun , and her failing body had to be replaced with exquisite artifice, piece by piece. Accompanied by the extraordinary brass orb that houses her hextech heart, Orianna is now free to explore the wonders of Piltover , and beyond.
Orianna Reveck was born in Piltover as the daughter of Corin Reveck (Singed), an artificer who designed artificial limbs. She helped her father run his shop as his assistant, but she had an adventurous spirit. Corin refused to let Orianna go beyond her neighborhood and instead took her to the theater, where she was inspired by dancers who told stories of different regions, aspiring to visit them some day.
When news about a disaster in Zaun reached the Revecks' shop, Orianna wanted to help, but Corin forbade her as Zaun was too dangerous. However, she snuck into Zaun at night so she could help the victims of the disaster, supplying them with respirators and even giving her own to save a child who could barely breathe. Corin was angry at her when she returned, but soon she became terminally ill due to her lungs being destroyed by the poisonous gas. Corin spent weeks developing artificial lungs and augmented them into Orianna, but kept her lungs wound with a key so she would not venture off again. As she returned to work, the poison spread to the rest of her body, so the Revecks worked hard to construct artificial parts to replace Orianna's failing body parts. She was eventually able to survive perfectly fine, but at the cost of all but her heart being replaced with bionic parts. She started to lose the memories of who she was before as her humanity began to fade.
Several years later, Corin's heart began to fail. Orianna constructed figurines to sell, but they could not raise enough money to save her father, so out of desperation she made a deal with a chem-baron, whom gave her a hextech crystal. As she paid him, she began to run out of money and knew he would turn to violence next time, so she decided to sacrifice her human heart to save her father. She constructed the Ball , a floating machine which housed the hextech crystal within, designing it to defend and assist her. She anesthetized Corin to begin a surgery to replace his heart with her own. After the surgery was over, she realized that she had sacrificed the last remnant of her humanity, and was now only a machine. She set off to explore Piltover, eager to find her new place as a lady of clockwork. When Corin woke up and found that Orianna had left, he kept a figurine she had created as a memento to his daughter.
Orianna visited a venue for Sir Fiesterly's Fantastical Fair, waiting until everybody had left. She felt attracted toward a fellow automaton named Fieram , displayed within a glass cabinet. He asked Orianna for her name, and repeated it claiming her name had soft sounds. He told her that he was afraid of the outside world, and was safe in the glass. He demonstrated a magic trick, to Orianna's awe. The two automatons began to converse with each other romantically, with Orianna interested with him to the point where she started to express her emotions, which she had lessened capability over. When Fieram told her of his dreams of seeing the outside world, she was obliged to free him by breaking the lock and the cage. Two security watchmen noticed and tried to stop her from damaging their property. Desperate to take Fieram with her, Orianna urged him to use his smoke-emitting trick, then knocked the two guards into unconsciousness using her Ball. After seeing Fieram repeat his lines, Orianna realized that he was a simple animatronic only following his programming, feeling sadness towards the revelation. As she bode goodbye to Fieram, she left without looking back, but not before seeing what appeared to be Fieram winking in the distance.
When she was human, Orianna had light skin and blue eyes. Her hair was blonde and reached down to the jaw, with it partly tied up in a bun near the top of her head.
As a golem her body is now showing white metal segments over most of the body, and her torso is seperated from her hips. The inner parts of her body as well as her joints and windup key is copper coloured. Her metal skirt is bronze coloured, with 6 clockhands sticking out and folowing the skirt from her hips. The edges of both the segments and the clockhands are embellished with a flowing pattern, reminiscent of vines. Near the top part of her chest there is a bronze gear attached that is mirrored on the back but as a pattern on the white segment instead. Her hair remained the same is it's style, but it is now a light brown, and her eyes are now fully blue with a glow emitting from the center. Her fingers are also especially sharp.
The Ball follows a design and colour palette as Orianna's parts do, with the white metal segments and bronze parts having the vines around the edges. The Ball has a lens on the front that acts as an eye, glowing blue, from the hexcore contained within it.
Orianna was helpful and altruistic, willing to do whatever it takes to help others even when dissuaded, and often sacrificed herself in numerous ways to offer others a chance to live. She enjoyed crafting like her father, but as she became more robotic she became more detached from her humanity, yet still retained her concern towards her father. She transplanted her own heart into her father as she saw it as the most logical option. After becoming fully robotic, she now wishes to find her place in the world as a robot retaining her human memories.
Orianna has trouble expressing her emotions, but is still capable of feeling them. She initially felt love towards Fieram due to being an automaton like her, even going as far as to attack the watchmen due to believing they were trying to stop her from freeing him. When he turned out just to be a robot apparently following his programming, she was saddened and left feeling defeated. [ 1 ]
Corin Reveck is the father of Orianna. He saved Orianna's life by replacing her damaged organs with artificial hextech ones. Due to his heart starting to fail because of his aging body, Orianna sacrifices her heart to keep him alive.
The Lady of Clockwork
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Orianna
Mentioned: Corin Reveck
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
Orianna walked through the fairground, empty and still in the evening gloom. Sir Feisterly's Fantastical Fair opened its gates to delighted crowds of Zaunites but twice a year, and Orianna did not want to miss her chance to see its wonders. She had waited until everyone had left for the day, and the rowdy laughter and accordion tunes had fallen silent. Only the low hum of nearby pipelines pumping steam through the chem district disturbed the quiet. Detritus lay strewn along the ground; colorful streamers and bright balloons mingling with crumpled wax paper that once held sweet jam pastries.
Starring: Fieram , Orianna
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
The school year comes and goes, but we’ll share these memories forever.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Rakan
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
Short Story
Submit to Infinity
Starring: Kha'Zix , Orianna
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Ornn is the Freljordian demi-god of forging and craftsmanship. He works in the solitude of a massive smithy, hammered out from the lava caverns beneath the volcano Hearth-Home . There he stokes bubbling cauldrons of molten rock to purify ores and fashion items of unsurpassed quality. When other deities—especially Volibear —walk the earth and meddle in mortal affairs, Ornn arises to put these impetuous beings back in their place, either with his trusty hammer or the fiery power of the mountains themselves.
Not much is known about Ornn's early life, only tales and stories told around campfires persist, and even then the validity of these stories is not known.
One such story tells of when Ornn was young. Looking for a fight with a worthy opponent, Ornn challenged the land around him to a battle. Ornn fought the land, reshaping it with each blow. He headbutted mountains, beat valleys into shape, and shaped the earth into the landscape of what would become known as the Freljord today. When he was tired, Ornn thanked the land for the glorious match, and in return, the land opened itself to him, showing him its core. This gave Ornn the power of the primordial flame, and Ornn then dedicated himself to forging tools and weapons.
Another story tells of how after his first home burned down, Ornn made a mountain out of ore, and inside was a forge that channeled the primordial flame from deep within the earth. However, the mountain was too hot even for Ornn, who slept through his first home burning down around him, and so he channeled a sea of cold water into the mountain. It took three days for the home to finally cool, and the ocean had dipped a few inches because of how much water was used. So much steam had risen from the cooling that the sky soon filled with dark clouds and burst with snow. It snowed for a hundred years, and that event is what causes the Freljord to have so much snow even today.
It is said that one day, Three Sisters came to Ornn for help. They asked him to dig a hole deep and wide enough to lure their enemies into. Ornn said yes, as he was already planning on digging a hole, and the proposed site was a fine spot. After he was done digging the hole, Ornn returned to his work. Several years later, the Sisters, having endured years of war, came to Ornn again. They asked him to forge a bridge over the abyss, made out of a metal that fell from the sky. This metal was so durable and unyielding that only he could forge it. Ornn agreed, accepting the metal itself as payment. He built the bridge , and so durable was it that it would have stood until the end of time had one sister not ruined Ornn's work by casting spells onto it.
In the making of this bridge, Ornn had made a tool from the star metal that he called 'hammer', as he had used it to hammer. Ornn grew so attached to this hammer that even when he had thrown away his favorite spade and eating fork, he could not bring himself to throw away the hammer. He still uses the hammer to forge his creations to this day.
One of Ornn's last known creations was made when a troll, Grubgrack the Hideous, challenged him to a drinking contest. Ornn accepted and promised that if Grubgrack won, he would build him a door to protect Grubgrack's riches. When the time came, Ornn lost due to Grubgrack putting a shard of True Ice in his drink, causing it to infinitely melt and put endless amounts of drink in Ornn's cup. Ornn was angry at Grubgrack for cheating, but stuck to his word and built the door. However, once Grubgrack closed the door, he could not get it open, no matter how hard he tried. The door was indestructible, so much so that many years after its creation, a heroic man elected to go through the mountain around the door in order to reach a child stuck behind it.
Grubrack could not get it open no matter how hard he tried. Ornn did not care, and considered it justice for Grubrack cheating. To this day, some say that just before an avalanche, you can still hear Grubrack's wails, lamenting on his lost riches.
In time, like many other demigods, Ornn amassed a group of followers. They were legion of some of the best forgers in Runeterra who came from far and wide to hone their skills under Ornn's guidance. They called themselves the Hearthblood , for they never felt the bitter cold of the Freljord and could bare the intense heat of lava and fire just beneath them, heating up the ground. They presented their work to Ornn, and every so often he would appraise their work, calling the best creations "passable." This was a big compliment from Ornn, as he rarely ever appraised anything, instead electing to let good work speak for itself. He never admitted it, but Ornn secretly cared for the Hearthblood. He admired them for being dedicated to nothing but honing their skills, and not giving him sacrifices or preaching the misconstrued words of their god to people who did not want to hear. They made him smile, though no one could tell because his mouth was hidden behind his beard.
One day, Ornn's closest sibling Volibear and his followers came to visit him. Volibear had grown jealous of the love that Ornn's followers freely gave him, and was itching for a fight with Ornn. Volibear came and asked for swords and axes for him and his army of followers, but Ornn refused, not wanting to have anything to do with his brother's warmongering. Volibear threatened to take what his brother wouldn't give, and in return Ornn charged onto Volibear and hit him with his horns so hard that the base of Ornn's mountain shook. They fought for eight days, causing lightning to strike the mountain and molten lava to explode out of the ground. When it ended, the Hearthblood were killed and their home was destroyed. Volibear and Ornn still lived, returning to their individual pursuits. Volibear swore off his brother and shed his rune-inscribed armor, electing to instead fight with tooth, claw, might, and thunder. Ornn returned to his solitary work, continuing to make weapons and armor for years to come.
Ornn continues his work in solitude, not interacting with anybody. His name is still spoken, but not by many. Every now and then, smoke rises from Ornn's mountain. Some say that he is lighting his furnace to stop the fire underneath the world from going out. Others say that he is building a great weapon. And there are some who claim that he is dead, as he has not been seen in the Freljord since his fateful battle.
Ornn has a large humanoid-like figure with a square shaped torso and muscular arms, chiseled by his endless work of forging and crafting weapons. He has the head of a ram with large horns and a large red beard that covers up most of his face. Ornn's eyes, left arm, and the tips of his horns glow orange with the heat and power of primordial fire, and he wears nothing but a large metal apron around his torso.
Ornn is a quiet and stoic individual, not bothering or interacting with anybody unless they come to him. Ornn often will not do things unless he deems it necessary, even using the shortest sentences he can to get his point accross. Ornn is dedicated to his craft and works day and night, and while he takes satisfaction in his work, he does not appraise it, instead electing to let good work speak for itself. He is apathetic to many things, including the people around him. The only people Ornn has ever truly admired or respected were the Hearthblood, and the destruction of their people hurt his soul more than anything else in this world. He has not cared about anyone or anything else since.
Many in the Freljord know of Ornn, yet few worship him or are considered his 'followers'. Once, an entire village of people known as the Hearthblood worshiped him and followed in his ways of forging and crafting weapons. However, the Hearthblood were all killed and their home destroyed during a battle between Ornn and Volibear .
Ornn has numerous demigod siblings , including Anivia , Volibear , and many others such as Ildhaurg and the Seal Sister . They were once all close, but soon grew apart due to their own ventures.
In myths, it is said that Anivia once accidentally burned down Ornn's Horn Hall after trying to get back at him for felling her favorite perching trees in order to make it. Ornn did not know that it was her that did it and believed that it was his own arrogance that caused his home to burn down. He vowed to never again compliment his own work, which contributed to his stoic and quiet personality.
Volibear and Ornn were once close, fighting in many battles together. However, as they drifted apart, Volibear grew jealous of the love that the Hearthblood freely gave to Ornn. Volibear and his followers went to Ornn seeking weapons and armor for battle. When Ornn refused, Volibear said that he would take what Ornn would not give, which caused Ornn to attack Volibear. Their fight lasted for eight days and neither of them perished. However, this fight killed the Hearthblood and Ornn has not been seen since.
Legends say that Ornn dug out the Howling Abyss and built a bridge over it at the request of Lissandra and her two sisters, Serylda ( Sejuani's supposed ancestor) and Avarosa ( Ashe's supposed ancestor). How truthful the myths are is unknown.
Lissandra and her Frostguard have been trying to sabotage the worship of the old demi-gods, including Ornn, in order to deny them power and influence.
Braum's original tribe has a strong connection to Ornn and hence his magic takes the shape of the ram. Ornn is responsible for making the unbreakable door that is used as a shield by Braum, though he's more annoyed and surprised that Braum managed to take it off the hinges and won't give it back.
As a shaman: Udyr is able to harness his power, appearing as two lava orange horns on his shoulders.
Aurora is a friend of Ornn, he welcomed her into his home, although at first he perceived her as a nuisance, over time he grew fond of her and as a sign of his friendship he forged and gave her a magic wand.
The Fire Below the Mountain
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Braum , Volibear
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Short Story • 15 Minute Read
The Lost Tales of Ornn
I have never seen the forgotten god. My grandmother told me these tales, but she never saw the forgotten god either—nor did her grandmother before her, or hers before her, a thousand times over. His legends endure only around crackling fires and meals of roasted fish. The further back we trace our ancestors, the truer the tales become.
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Volibear
The Path to Hearth-Home
By Kole Hicks
In the echoes of the mountains and the crackling of the embers, a legend once forgotten is remembered with a song older than any tribe.
Mentioned: Nunu
The Spirit of Hearth-Home
By Elyse Lemoine , Ty Sheedlo
I remember...
Starring: Aurora , Ornn
Mentioned: Hestrelk , Lissandra , Volibear
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The Voice from the Hearth
No one knew who lit the fire, but we saw the plume of smoke from far away.
Mentioned: Kindred , Volibear
Short Story
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Vrynna gritted her teeth to stop them from chattering and forced herself on, trudging through the thick snow.
Starring: Vrynna
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Volibear
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Silence for the Damned
By Odin Austin Shafer
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
Short Story • 35 Minute Read
The Eye in the Abyss
Sigvar Half-Quiver knelt on one knee, head bowed, while the wind beyond the gates howled like the ice-wraiths of legend.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Lissandra , Ornn
The Relentless Storm
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné , Rayla Heide
Starring: Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Ornn , Rhond
The Witch Between Worlds
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Aurora
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Music Video
You and Me Makes Us
By Numerous creators
Starring: Lissandra , Nunu , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Ornn
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Rise of the Elements
Starring: Azir , Kindred , Ornn , Warwick
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Obscured behind Ornn's teaser poem, additional information regarding the champion's background is revealed. Each localization (language) reveals different information.
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once an unwilling host to the Aspect of War, Atreus survived when the celestial power within him was slain, refusing to succumb to a blow that tore stars from the heavens. In time, he learned to embrace the power of his own mortality, and the stubborn resilience that goes along with it. Atreus now opposes the divine as Pantheon reborn, his unbreakable will fueling the fallen Aspect’s weapons on the field of battle.
Atreus was born on the slopes of Mount Targon , belonging to the tribes of the Rakkor. From a young age, Atreus would train for battle, joining the military unit of the Rakkor, the Ra'Horak. Never particularly talented, nor possessing any innate strength, young Atreus would constantly fail every training regiment and bout he partook in. However, his impressive endurance and relentless fighting spirit always ensured that he would stand back up, in spite of how bloodied and bruised he would be after each encounter. This would earn him the respect of his much more skilled rival and eventual best friend, Pylas, whom Atreus would constantly challenge despite being outmatched in every fight. Through the bloodied and gruesome training circles, Pylas and Atreus would forge a strong bond of brotherhood, a bond that only grew stronger as the two battled proudly for their tribe.
Atreus and his Ra'Horak companions were ambushed by a barbarian incursion looking to make way into Rakkor territory. The battle would leave most of the patrol dead, save for Atreus and Pylas. The two would seek retribution for their fallen comrades from the Aspect of the Sun, but the Aspect refused to lend aid to fight off the trespassers making their way into their homes. Outraged, Atreus and Pylas vowed to end the fight themselves by making the climb to Targon's peak to acquire power.
Similar to the many people that previously attempted to make the climb, the two underestimated the intensity and difficulty of the task. It was a difficult trial, as the two would eventually make their way to the top, but with Pylas dying on the peak of the mountain in Atreus' arms. With Atreus the only one at the peak, the skies opened for the gods to choose their host. Atreus was taken by the Aspect of War, the Pantheon.
Pantheon deemed Atreus too unworthy to wield the power it possessed, but War needed a host body. It took over Atreus' body, stopping Atreus from having any control over the body that Pantheon now inhabited.
What Atreus endured while Pantheon took over his body were visions of Pantheon looking for the Darkin across Runeterra , the living weapons that remained after the Darkin Wars .
Eventually, Pantheon faced Aatrox . Aatrox sought to reach the peak of Targon, with Pantheon arriving to stop the Darkin's ascent. They battled, and it ended with Aatrox driving his blade into the aspect, killing it and erasing its constellation from the skies.
With Pantheon gone, Atreus reawoke, finding himself impaled with the Darkin's blade. Bleeding and on the verge of death, Atreus spit on Aatrox's face as an act of defiance. Aatrox was bemused by this and left Atreus to die.
Atreus stood back up, powered with nothing but bitter rage and regret at his own failings. He stumbled his way into Rakkor territory, until he reached the home of Iula, the widowed wife of Pylas. She nursed him back to health, and as Atreus recovered, he was reinvigorated to keep fighting, finding pride in being a mortal human being instead of a god.
While he recovered, he received news that a barbarian incursion was headed towards the territory that included Iula's farm. Atreus learned that it was led by Aatrox, who convinced the barbarians to invade Targonian settlements. Atreus picked up his weapons and headed to battle to confront Aatrox in an attempt to put an end to the madness.
When Atreus reached the site of battle, Aatrox saw the lack of power flowing through his spear and the scar which seared into both his shield and his body. Despite Aatrox's advantages, Atreus fought him, invigorated by the cries of the people around him. Just before he was about to be defeated, Atreus struck Aatrox's sword arm, detaching the Darkin from its host.
This act brought back Pantheon's constellation into the sky, and Atreus made a vow to be the shield, to protect all mortals against those that wanted to destroy them. Forsaking his name, he instead took the mantle of the Pantheon, the Aspect of War.
Atreus was present when Viego came to Targon to search for a fetter of queen Isolde's soul. He battled the Ruined King at the peak, but was overwhelmed by the time the Sentinels of Light arrived. Atreus' consciousness was subsumed, but Pantheon was resurrected by the king's magic and had taken control of his body. Pantheon attempted to bury the Sentinels with an avalanche, while Viego continued his search. When the Sentinels retaliated, Pantheon summoned an army of ghouls and leapt into battle. He was eventually defeated by Diana , but Viego had already secured the fetter. Pantheon went to the Shadow Isles and guarded the Sentinels as made their final stand against the Ruined King, where Viego would revive his queen. When Viego was defeated, Atreus was freed, and he reclaimed his body from Pantheon.
After the Aspect of War was defeated once again, Atreus visited Iula again. While there, he told her that he had finally given up. After the Aspect was defeated, Atreus lost his celestial powers and couldn't go on. He considered himself defeated after having experienced so much and didn't resist Iula when she pointed his own spear to his chest, even pulling it towards himself so that she could finish the job that the Aspect had started. Iula responded to this with anger. She told him that Pylas had died to make him the protector that he had become and the fact that he was throwing everything away was an insult to her and Pylas' memory. Pantheon left in shame, thinking of what Iula said.
Despite his despair, Atreus was reinvigorated by what Iula had said. With unclear motives, Atreus traveled into the territory of the Solari, to the location of a portal that they had constructed that went to the peak of Mount Targon. The Solari, along with Leona , fought him. Despite fighting valiantly, Pantheon was knocked off of the cliff that they were fighting on by a comet of unknown origin. At the bottom of the cliff, surrounded by the bodies and weapons of fallen soldiers, Atreus sat in quiet reflection. During this time, he found a reinvigorated passion. With this newfound passion, Atreus' celestial powers returned, and he flew into the night sky.
Atreus is a physically imposing warrior, with a physique that is carved from a lifetime of training as a soldier. A deep scar runs across his chest, a scar which he received when he was impaled by Aatrox's Darkin blade. He sports the cape of Solstice, a blue ethereal cape with constellations of the sky gleaming from the very fabric. Within certain in-game depictions, when Pantheon has his helmet on, his visage darkens, tying into identity as a faceless soldier of war defending humanity. When his helmet is off, he has a mohawk and sports a thick beard, tied up to keep straight. His face, and much of his body, have golden Solari-based tattoos, which harken back to his Ra'Horak days.
When Pantheon was briefly resurrected after being Ruined by Viego, Pantheon's appearance changed drastically. Like most of the Ruined champions, Pantheon's chest had the dark and green downward facing triangle, signifying his Ruination. The shield he wielded bared a face with some similarity to Atreus. On top of a loincloth, Pantheon wears dark jeans and boots to match. The top of his helmet has a plume with long and thick white fur.
Stoic and unwavering, Atreus as Pantheon possesses a strong fighting spirit. As the stalwart defender of humanity, Pantheon often feels over-encumbered by his duties and his expectations as an Aspect. Despite his failings, he presses forward stubbornly, and he encourages all of his compatriots to do the same.
He is not very accepting of most god-like beings with immense powers, which include Aspects, Darkins, Ascendants, and demons alike. Given his own experience with War, Pantheon is hesitant in placing his trust with greater powers, preferring to rely on his own mortal will to fight his battles.
Pylas was Atreus' childhood friend which he deeply respected. Both would climb Mount Targon after the Aspect of the Sun [ 1 ] denied their pleas to fight invading barbarians, with only Atreus surviving the climb.
Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was the wife of Pylas. Inspired by the actions of her husband and Atreus, she would take up a spear and fight for the mortals of Targon against foes such as Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . Years later , Iula would remind a broken Atreus of his purpose, reigniting his determination and warrior's spirit.
Atreus would fight Leona while trying to reach the peak of Mount Targon.
Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). is the Targonian Celestial Aspect of War, a being that (uncommon among Aspects) completely possessed the body of the current host, Atreus. After the death of the Aspect at the hands of Aatrox , Atreus would be freed from the aspects control. He would breefly be controlled by a resurrected Aspect during the events of the Ruination. Atreus resents The Warrior for his arrogance towards mortals, an opinion that has shaped most of Atreus' viepoints towards god-like beings. He now prides in the power and resilience of mortals, and opposes the greater powers that threaten the world.
Aatrox is instrumental in killing the Aspect that has shackled Atreus since his ascension. Atreus would survive this encounter (with a scar gowing down his chest as a constant reminder), later succeeded in his second fight against the Darkin Blade, reigniting the Aspect's power.
Atreus inspired many mortals to fight in order to protect others, one of which is Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , a saga seeker that would eventually fight against a demon known as Camphor.
Atreus inspired many mortals to fight in order to protect others, one of which is Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , a revered oracle that was blinded by the demon Camphor, which she would eventually fight against.
Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was a demon who stalked the lands of Targon for centuries, using the people very own doubt as a tool against them. Atreus and a group of warriors would eventually confront this demon and fight her until she was slain.
Atreus and dozens of Ra'Horak fought against Xerath in Nerimazeth .
Atreus fought and was defeated by Viego, who resurrected the Aspect of War and subsumed Atreus. He was eventually freed from Viego and the Aspect's control after the Ruined King was defeated with the aid of Diana and the rest of the Sentinels of Light .
The Unbreakable Spear
By David Slagle
Starring: Pantheon
Mentioned: Aatrox , Iula , Leona
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story
For Those Who Have Fallen
When I land in the ruins of Nerimazeth, it does not feel as if I have leapt, celestial magic burning my path across the sky, but as if I have fallen. I am, after all, only a man.
Mentioned: Xerath
In Battle, Broken
By Laurie Goulding
Weary from the day’s labors, Iula wiped her stiff hands upon her apron, and raised a cup to the mantel.
Starring: Iula , Pantheon
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Viego
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Spear of Targon
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
A lone figure awaited the armed convoy, standing silhouetted against the sun. His heavy cloak and the long plume atop his helm billowed in the hot, dry desert wind. A tall spear was held at his side.
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Soraka
Halfway Between the Stars and Earth
By Katie Chironis
It was a perfectly good night for a cup of tea. Chilly, certainly, but clear—as crisp a night as frigid Mount Targon ever got, really. Soraka was expecting a visitor. The snow in the stone kettle had already begun to melt over the hearth at the center of her little yurt; as it grew warmer, the room was suffused with the smell of dried tea leaves and sparse mountain herbs.
Starring: Soraka
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Nasus , Pantheon
He Has Returned
Starring: Aurelion Sol
Mentioned: Pantheon
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
The moment she thought of the cake store, Zoe dove into the air, surrendering herself to gravity. While falling, she reached out with her consciousness to form a gateway. Instantly, a portal opened beneath her and connected to the other place. She fell into the gate. Her mass collided and imploded as she traveled.
Starring: Zoe
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Pantheon
The Darkin Blade
Starring: Aatrox
Mentioned: Pantheon , Zoe
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
By Graham McNeill
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
Short Story • 10 Minute Read
By Matthew Dunn
This world's familiar sun still hides below the horizon. Crude and unpolished earth unfurls below. Mountains contort into barriers that stretch like fingers across empty scrub lands. Palaces, or rather, what pass for palaces, fail to loom over anything but the squattest of hills. The curvature of the planet meets the stars with a serenity and grace few of the dwellers below will ever witness. They are so scattered across the globe and grasp so blindly for any sort of understanding that it's no surprise they've been conquered and don't even comprehend their predicament.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Out of Time
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Lucian , Pantheon
Mentioned: Caitlyn
Systems Online
In the wake of a ruthless Praetorian threat, an elite team converges to stop them. Prepare to engage—you're just in time.
Starring: Ekko , Fiora , Graves , Lucian , Pantheon
The Slumber Party Summoning
By Ariel Lawrence
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Runeterra has no shortage of valiant champions, but few are as tenacious as Poppy . Bearing the legendary hammer of Orlon, a weapon twice her size, this determined yordle has spent untold years searching in secret for the fabled “Hero of Demacia,” said to be its rightful wielder. Until then, she dutifully charges into battle, pushing back the kingdom's enemies with every whirling strike.
Poppy is a yordle with light blue fur, and magenta colored eyes. Her hair is styled in two ash-blonde ponytails. Her outfit consists of a red scarf, various armor pieces, and Shieldy mounted on her back.
Poppy is a dutiful soldier, described as tenacious and determined, but is not always obedient, shown to question Orlon's orders when she disagrees in an inquisitive and almost childishly naive manner. Nonetheless, Poppy was one of the most devoted followers of Orlon's cause, and continues to abide by her mission even centuries after his death, making her true to her word. By Orlon's description, Poppy embodies the characteristics of the true "Hero of Demacia ", and though her humility prevents her from realizing this, her bravery has helped the kingdom numerous times, making her the one rightful wielder of Orlon's hammer.
Poppy's hammer belonged to Demacia's founder and weaponsmith Orlon, who passed it on to her on his deathbed. She is searching for the 'Hero of Demacia' meant to wield the hammer (without realizing she is the one). When Orlon passed the hammer to Poppy, he did not specifically identify her as the Hero (or meant to, but died before he could), leading to Poppy's misunderstanding. Poppy and Kled are notable for being Yordles responsible for helping in building the human civilizations they align themselves with (Demacia and Noxus , respectively).
Poppy knows about the existence of Lulu and Tristana , though it is uncertain what she thinks about them. Lulu states that Poppy and Tristana has "a little furrow just above her nose when she gets mad".
During a Black Mist attack by Viego on a Demacian city, Vayne and Poppy fought side by side against the undead army.
Keeper of the Hammer
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Poppy
A Hero's Calling
A weapon holding the hope of a kingdom has found its champion. She just doesn't know it.
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Poppy had nothing against the briar wolf, aside from the fact that it was about to maul her. Its muzzle was stained crimson from a previous kill, and the yordle wouldn't chance being its next. She was hot on the trail of a renowned monster slayer, and she didn't intend to die before she found the man and judged his worth.
Short Story
The Whispering Doodad
By Graham McNeill
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
By Ariel Lawrence
Star Guardians can only defeat the darkness that spreads across the universe if they stand together. They will fight as one or fall as many.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Poppy
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
13 regional champions will compete at the 2019 Mid-Season Invitational, but there can be only one winner. Who will lift the trophy? Who will represent?
Mentioned: Aatrox , Aurelion Sol , Darius , Garen , Kayn , Leona , Poppy
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A renowned harpooner from the slaughter docks of Bilgewater , Pyke should have met his death in the belly of a gigantic jaull-fish ; and yet, he returned. Now, stalking the dank alleys and backways of his former hometown, he uses his new supernatural gifts to bring a swift and gruesome end to those who make their fortune by exploiting others—and a city that prides itself on hunting monsters now finds a monster hunting them.
In life and in his youth, Pyke worked on the slaughterhouse docks to earn a living, he found work at the Red Dock and it didn't take him long to get used to the business, the hard work and its minimum wage. But deep down he aspired for more and every time he saw a crew arrive with huge creatures to sell his desire grew more and more, he worked hard and finally managed to stand out and join a crew. Pyke demonstrated great talent for Buhru -style harpoon hunting, earning the title of the best harpooner of his time.
One day while his ship was sailing, a Jaull Fish appeared, one of the most coveted and strongest monstrous fish in all of Runeterra since its oil had magical properties. Pyke without hesitation jumped into the sea into the mouth of the fish to try to kill it, but the fish emitted a powerful scream which called a herd of Jaull Fish which began to push the boat.
The desperate captain was forced to cut Pyke's lifeline. The last thing he saw was the horrified faces of his companions as they saw him being devoured by the monstrous fish. However, in the jaw of the fish Pyke survived, when he opened his eyes he saw lights which were watching him, something mysterious crushed his mind and showed him visions of his companions benefiting from his death.
The magical oils of the Jaul fish changed Pyke who now only had in his mind a great desire for revenge and punishment, granting him supernatural powers, eventually Pyke left the monster and returned to Bilgewater determined to get revenge.
As time went by, there began to be homicides of captains. At first, people did not take it seriously due to the constant killings, but when weeks and months began to pass, people saw a pattern, as the captains appeared mutilated in their beds, indicating that the they killed during the night,
Soon they were no longer just captains, now they were anyone who was linked to dirty and shady businesses in the Red Dock, a reward order was issued for the one baptized, Red Dock Ripper.
Due to the fear he instilled in Bilgewater, Illaoi, the high priestess of the Buhru, decided to put a stop to the Red Dock Ripper, leaving the Serpent Isles and venturing into Bilgewater to try to track him down. When she was about to kill a retired captain, Pyke encountered Illaoi and her followers. At first he did not see interest in killing her, but when he saw how insistent she was on stopping him, he prepared to fight her.
The battle was fierce, but Illaoi finally managed to overpower Pyke. Seeing that he was an undead, she felt disgusted since the undead were a blasphemy to her religion. So she subjected him to the test of Nagakabouros knowing that due to his undead nature he would not survive and would be crushed and destroyed by the power of the Goddess.
However, Pyke managed to survive, because to the confusion of Illaoi, the Goddess considered him worthy. Pyke was left stunned and with his mind spinning wondering what she had done to him, but he still had enough strength to escape and fled from a disconcerted Illaoi.
Pyke is a corpse-like entity that has been in the water for quite some time. He is thin, skeletal, has slightly pale dark skin, a shaved head, and bright blue-green lights that shine in his sockets as eyes.
In life, Pyke was a very loyal and hard-working man who was willing to do anything to be recognized. After dying and resurrecting he became a living killing machine, he was ruthless, sadistic and very vengeful, he was determined to take revenge on those responsible for his death.
After Illaoi tested him and proved him worthy, Pyke regained some of his former self, always sharpening his knife to avoid falling into a fit of rage.
Miss Fortune and Gangplank are both on Pyke's list, both being captains. [ 1 ] He would later hunt Miss Fortune during Rise of the Sentinels , when the Sentinels told her she was on his list.
During the events of Ruined King , Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke and Yasuo would set sail to the Shadow Isles to fight Viego in order to protect Bilgewater. Although Pyke is an undead, Illaoi sees Pyke as an eddy of a much deeper tide and therefore is in motion. [ 2 ] She subjects Pyke to Nagakabouros' test and her influence calms him from his murderous states. Later, Pyke saved the Sentinels of Light from Miss Fortune's attack after she made a deal with Viego in exchange for power. Pyke then joined the team despite most of the members not approving it.
Olaf wanted to fight Pyke , thinking he could grant him a warrior's death, and said he cut his line.
The Bloodharbor Ripper
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Pyke
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Pyke, the Drowned Man
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Listen as Lars spins a tale of four Bilgewater legends - Nautilus, Fizz, Tahm Kench, and Pyke - and discovers the terrifying fact woven into his fiction.
Rise From the Deep
Best keep an eye out for what lurks in the depths.
Starring: Nautilus , Pyke
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Bloodharbor Ripper (Video)
Pyke's shipmates watched him drown. In his eyes, all of Bilgewater is guilty.
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Then, Teeth
Mazier is sprawled on the rotten planks, waves lapping at stone underneath. Her slowing heartbeat pumps blood into the seawater. She stares, unblinking, at the shanty-dwellings above, and the stars beyond.
Short Story
Dead in the Water
By Graham McNeill
Red tide out, red tide in.
Starring: Miss Fortune , Nautilus
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Illaoi , Nagakabouros , Pyke
Rise of the Underworlds (Video)
Theirs are the names frantically whispered by scoundrels and swindlers. They come from below—the sea, the sands, the city—and wherever they surface, the legends follow.
Starring: Auvray , Ekko , Milat
Mentioned: Pyke , Rek'Sai
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Fire to the Fuse
By Numerous Creators
Driven by an endless need for revenge, Pyke hunts down other versions of himself across dimensions. After each kill, the dimension collapses and a new Empyrean is born with volatile powers and a mission all their own.
Starring: Jax , Lux , Pyke
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Trial of the Masks
By Jared Rosen
Imagine the world as a mirror
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Aatrox , Pyke
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
In the jungle city of Ixaocan , Qiyana plots her own ruthless path to the high seat of the Yun Tal. Last in line to succeed her parents, she faces those who stand in her way with brash confidence and unprecedented mastery over elemental magic. With the land itself obeying her every command, Qiyana sees herself as the greatest elementalist in the history of Ixaocan—and by that right, deserving of not only a city, but an empire.
Qiyana was born into the royal family of Ixaocan, the Yunalai, being the last of her nine sisters in the line of succession and grew up thinking that the throne would never be hers. Wishing to know what her role would be in her family and her place in Ixaocan.
Qiyana was educated in the elemental magical arts of Ixtal, she proved to be one of the best students of her time and not only that but at a very early age she mastered powerful techniques and spells that her older sisters were still struggling to achieve. Seeing the potential within her, Qiyana began to believe that the throne of Yun Tal should be hers.
As she grew, Qiyana's magical powers increased enormously, being able to perfectly master three types of elemental magic, Earth, Water and Nature. With her powers, her pride grew more and more, proclaiming herself as the Empress of the Elements.
As time went by, Qiyana began to try to get her parents' attention because she wanted to prove herself and was scandalized when they chose one of her sisters and not her. Inessa, her older sister, clashed with her the most, having very heated arguments until it got to the point where Inessa challenged Qiyana to a ritual combat to teach her sister some humility.
The battle was fierce but finally Qiyana not only emerged victorious but also left Inessa paraplegic. Qiyana expected her reward but her parents were horrified by how she left her sister and refused to give her her reward. Qiyana was quite hurt and resentful by her parents' response, but then she realized that the entire town of Ixaocan was quite impressed with her powers, giving her one of the things she most wanted to have, respect.
However, Qiyana was not satisfied with recognition from all of Ixaocan. She needed the entire world to know the strength of her city, and more importantly, herself. Qiyana was disgusted by the increasing number of foreign visitors coming to their jungles to drain the land of its natural resources. She believed that if she showed them Ixtal's elemental might, these foreigners would run away in terror, and in her parents' court she proposed a plan of action against the "outlanders".
Qiyana's parents did not approve, of course, stating that making contact with the miners could destroy Ixacoan's hidden, isolationist position in Runeterra, inviting war, disease, and hatred, putting hundreds of years of peace in jeopardy. But Qiyana didn't care what they had to say and disobeyed her parents' orders, raiding a Piltovan mining site, destroying it and killing all the workers but one. She let the last miner go, and told him to spread the message of the elementalist sorceress who destroyed the mine. When she returned, Qiyana told everyone about the massacre, much to her parents' fury, as Qiyana's actions only caused the Piltovans to send even more miners and soldiers to the jungle.
Her parents, full of sadness, were forced to imprison their daughter in the dungeons of Ixaocan to decide how to punish her for the crime she committed against the kingdom. But before her trial began the elementalists of the high court spoke on Qiyana's behalf, stating that, while her actions were reckless, she was one of the most powerful elementalists Ixaocan had ever known. And that it would be foolish to keep her locked up and instead, she should be appointed to defend the city. In addition to the fact that the entire city was full of people who admired Qiyana's skill and talent and that she could inspire them to greatness, this made her parents reluctantly agree to release her but not before making her swear that she would not challenge them again.
Qiyana is a young and attractive Ixtali woman with tanned skin and wavy shoulder-length white hair. She has a round face and button nose, and yellow eyes. She is of short and curvaceous stature, with a trim waist, broad hips, and thick thighs.
She wears a strapless blue-green dress with a black midsection, detailed all over in gold. On her lower half she wears black leggings and a pair of open-toed sandals. She lavishes her appearance with jewellery and makeup, wearing a golden tiara, bracelets on her wrists and upper arms, and a necklace, all of which are inlaid with large green gems. Her eyes are decorated with golden-green eye shadow, and her nails are also painted in her signature green.
Though she does possess the skill to back it up, Qiyana is a proud and arrogant woman who brags often and loudly for all to hear about her prowess with elemental magic, her ostentatious nature reflected even in her choice of attire. She thinks very highly of herself and is fully convinced she deserves the throne regardless of her place in the line of succession.
She is extremely competitive, proactive, and determined. When challenged by her older sister Inessa to ritual combat, Qiyana displayed a ruthless side by not only rising to the challenge but crippling her sister in the fight to assert how seriously she takes her desire to rise to the top and ultimately become Empress.
Qiyana's parents neglected her due to her being the youngest of her 9 sisters, and thus furthest from the throne . [ 1 ] As a result of her parent's preferential treatment, Qiyana does not have a good relationship with her siblings.
Inessa, the eldest daughter and 12 years Qiyana's senior, sought to humble her by besting her in ritual combat, but was instead defeated and crippled. Mara, the youngest of Qiyana's elder sisters, conceded her prefectship over Tikras after Qiyana exposed the hidden paths between villages in Ixtal . The Piltovan raid that followed killed about half the populace, and nearly Mara herself. Unbeknownst to Mara, Qiyana planned the entire ordeal in order to take over as prefect, amassing additional power and support from Ixtal citizens.
Empress of the Elements
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Qiyana
Empress of the Elements (Video)
The people of Ixaocan celebrate her prowess. The world is next.
Short Story
Fit to Rule
“I'm starting to sweat, Bayal. Please, do not let me sweat.”
The Axiomata
By Daniel Couts
The river brings memories from a dead world.
Starring: Aliay Qunlan , Qiyana
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
Virtual hip-hop group True Damage was born when K/DA's lead rapper Akali sought to bring together the distinct talents of Ekko, Senna, Qiyana, and Yasuo in an ambitious, genre-defying collaboration.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Music Video
By True Damage
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lucian , Qiyana , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Sponsored by the noble Buvelle family, Quinn is a ranger-knight of Demacia who undertakes dangerous missions deep in enemy territory. She and her legendary eagle , Valor , share an unbreakable bond, and their foes are often slain before they realize they are fighting not one, but two of the kingdom’s greatest heroes. Nimble and acrobatic, Quinn takes aim with her crossbow while Valor marks their elusive targets from above, making them a deadly pair on the battlefield.
Quinn and her twin brother Caleb were born in Uwendale to a weaponsmith and a ranger. When Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). visited the village, they were impressed by the knights in their shining armor, and began to imitate them. Their father supported them in their endeavors, but as they grew older, the children took after their mother and spent time ranging in the wilds.
As young adults, Quinn and her brother were a formidable team of rangers, proficient in tracking and hunting prey. Quinn used a bow, while Caleb used a spear.
Quinn and Caleb were hired to accompany a hunting parting of nobles from the capital. The nobles hunted a giant Tuskvore , but did not manage to kill it. The wounded beast turned on the hunters, and the twins intervened. As they drove off the creature, it killed Caleb. The leader of the nobles, Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , helped Quinn bury her brother, who saved their life.
The death of Caleb broke Quinn, she couldn't focus on her tasks and would often make mistakes in the wilderness. A few months after the incident, Lady Lestara Buvelle visited Quinn's family and asked what her house could do for the grieving family. Quinn did not have an answer for her; She politely thanked her for the offer and turned her away.
One year after Caleb's death, Quinn returned to his grave as she often did. Due to her carelessness, she was taken by surprise when a tuskvore attacked her. She noticed it was the same beast that killed her brother, from the eye he took out before his death. Quinn fought the tuskvore, but found that she couldn't win. Just as it was about to kill her too, an Azurite Eagle swooped in and distracted the creature. With this help, Quinn managed to kill the tuskvore.
She nursed the wounded bird back to health and named him Valor . The connection she felt with the eagle helped Quinn, and she once again contemplated how to serve Demacia . With help from her father, she crafted her repeater crossbow, then journeyed to the capital to become a ranger-knight.
At the funeral of Lord Barrett Buvelle, Quinn spoke with his widow Lestara Buvelle. Lestara expressed her gratitude for saving his life two years ago, and asked again how she could repay Quinn. Quinn hesitated at first, then asked Lady Buvelle to sponsor her for knighthood. Lestara agreed and spoke with Tianna Crownguard , and Quinn became a ranger-knight in the same week.
As ranger-knight, Quinn served in the Demacian military with her companion Valor. She has traveled far across Runeterra in her missions, including the Freljord and Noxian-held territories . [ 1 ]
In the late autumn of 996 AN , Quinn received orders from Tianna Crownguard . She was to meet with Garen and a detachment of the Dauntless Vanguard and escort them to Nockmirch , but was distracted by a burned cabin in the woods. There she met up with Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). Dalin, and decided to pursue the attackers. They tracked the group to the eastern border, where Quinn confronted them. She learned that the widow and her child who lived in the cabin were not abducted, but that she willingly returned to Skaggorn with her brother. It was forbidden to leave the country due to the ongoing rebellion, but the group knew of a secret passage unknown to the Demacian guards. Quinn decided to still let them go, ordering Dalin to stand down. She then told him to ensure a watchtower was built so this could not happen again, and ran off to make her original assignment.
After running through the forest for multiple days and nights, Quinn met with the Dauntless Vanguard and boarded the ship "Stormbright" . As ranger, it was her duty to scout ahead and make sure the environment was safe. She was the one to discover a fortified bridge spanning the ravine between Rijenland and Alderburg , and later discovered the noxian army nearby. She rushed back to Alderburg to alert Garen , and they left with the Vanguard. Quinn was supposed to make it back to Demacia and alert them, but she was wounded while trying to open the gates of the bridge for the trapped soldiers. Valor, despite also being wounded, made it out and managed to lead Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). to the trapped Demacians. Quinn and the survivors then made it back to the Great City to recover from their wounds.
Quinn continues to lead the rangers in the fight against Sylas' rebellion. Their involvement seems to help the soldiers. [ 2 ]
Quinn is a lean, fierce-looking woman with stern features. [ 3 ] She has amber eyes, described as similar to Valor's golden eyes. [ 4 ] She usually wears light leather armor, and also travels with no or only a light pack. Quinn is almost always accompanied by her Azurite Eagle , Valor.
Quinn is friendly and well-liked with her subordinate rangers, rarely using her superior position to give direct orders. She takes her duty seriously and always tries to protect those she is in charge of. She does what is right, even when it goes against rules or the law. [ 5 ]
She is generally wary of strangers and "doesn't like people overmuch as a rule". She is more comfortable alone in the wild than among company. Cithria notes that she exudes an "easy confidence". [ 3 ]
Quinn's twin brother Caleb died while defending Barrett Buvelle, the adoptive father of Sona , from a tuskvore attack. After his death, Lestara Buvelle petitioned to Tianna Crownguard to let Quinn become a ranger-knight.
Quinn is the leader of the Demacian Rangers , whose known members include Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and her Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , the Yordle Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). Dalin and his dog Rigby. She's receives her orders from High Marshal Tianna Crownguard and carries them out dutifully.
She has worked with Garen and the Dauntless Vanguard on their expedition to the Nockmirch . Quinn and Garen like and respect each other.
Demacia's Wings
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan III , Tianna
Short Story
Fragile Legacies
By Dana Luery Shaw
I was young and unafraid, heart aflame with the sort of righteousness that cast out all shadows of doubt, on the day I first met Barrett Buvelle.
Starring: Eldred , Jarvan III , Quinn , Sona , Tianna
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan IV , Kayle , Morgana
Garen: First Shield
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The King is dead. Demacia is mourning. And in the eyes of Garen Crownguard, it’s his fault. But can he rise to the challenge when Demacia needs him again? While on a peacetime expedition beyond the borders of Demacia, Garen, Quinn, and the Dauntless Vanguard uncover a plot that threatens to destroy long-standing alliances. As the knight-ranger Quinn tries to get word back to Demacia, Garen and his comrades make a desperate last stand. How long can they last, and at what cost?
Starring: Cithria , Garen , Quinn , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Rules of Survival
The Demacian wilds are no place for thieving Noxians, but that's who Quinn just found.
Shield of Remembrance
Quinn ran through the forest, moving softly and swiftly.
Starring: Dalin , Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Anivia , Garen , Genevieve , Sylas , Tianna
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Demacia Needs Heroes
By Numerous creators
She is a new kind of hero, one of new mind and new method. One who can go where armies cannot reach, where swords cannot clash.
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan IV , Talon
Journey Into The Freljord
By Unknown Author
Mentioned: Ashe , Jarvan IV , Lissandra , Trundle
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Shadow of a Doubt
Star Guardians have a brilliant light, but some stagger in the darkness. Can Akali escape her own nightmares?
Starring: Akali , Morgana
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Quinn , Rell , Taliyah
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As mercurial as he is charming, Rakan is an infamous vastayan troublemaker and the greatest battle-dancer in Lhotlan tribal history. To the humans of the Ionian highlands, his name had long been synonymous with wild festivals, uncontrollable parties, and anarchic music. But this energetic, traveling showman has left his old life behind, dedicating himself to the cause of his lover, the rebel Xayah . Together, they seek to free Ionia’s wild magic, restoring the vastaya’s birthright.
The Lhotlan vastaya once lived on the ancient, mystical borders of Ionia’s deep forests, on the eastern island of Qaelin. It was a place where magic was breathed like air, and time had little meaning. To these chimeric creatures, the lands of mortals were an unforgiving desert, virtually devoid of magic—and over the centuries, that desert only grew, encroaching on the vastaya’s territories.
Rakan was born into a tribe in decline, yet he never gave up hope.
Like his brethren, Rakan watched as human settlements continued to expand, damming the flow of Ionia’s wild, chaotic magic for their own safety. Many tribes sent emissaries to negotiate with them, securing treaties to protect the mystical energy the vastaya needed to thrive. Yet over and over again, these promises were broken.
Disillusioned, most vastaya became increasingly isolationist as they clung to their remaining lands. But young Rakan advocated a different path. The battle-dancer believed that mortals could be convinced to let wild magic run free if they could only appreciate its beauty, and he boasted that he was the one to make them see it. For this, he was labeled mu’takl —distrusted as a human sympathizer, and collaborator.
Rakan left the Lhotlan tribe, determined to spread the song of his people across Ionia. He was an entertaining rogue, a welcome performer at any tavern or village carnival, but over the years he realized that was all he was to mortals—no matter how many dances and songs he performed, no matter how much he enthralled the crowds, he merely provided diversion to drunken revelers.
Rakan grew restless, finding himself without purpose... until he had a chance encounter with Xayah, a fellow Lhotlan, at the harvest festival in Vlonqo.
Seeing her in the crowd, Rakan sang one of his old songs, entrancing the entire town with his gleaming plumage. Though countless human and vastayan women had fallen for him in the past, this violet raven seemed immune to his charms, though not uninterested.
How could she see him and yet choose not to follow him? It was a puzzle with no easy answer.
Intrigued, the battle-dancer approached Xayah and asked after the welfare of their tribe. When she told him that the Lhotlan had lost the last of their lands, Rakan howled with rage. This finally seemed to impress Xayah, and she assured him that there was still hope: she was part of something greater, a rebellion of sorts, to take back what the vastaya had lost. Not just for the Lhotlan, but for all tribes.
Rakan was thunderstruck. Here was a chance for him to redeem his people, a cause he was willing to die for. He implored Xayah to let him accompany her, and she agreed—as long as he carried his weight.
And, as Xayah would soon learn, Rakan’s dances were as impressive in battle as they were on stage. He called himself the greatest battle-dancer in Lhotlan history, a boast that none could refute. His grand entrances and dazzling acrobatics distracted and befuddled enemies, before Xayah felled them with her razor-sharp quills. In any dangerous situation, they fought together with uncanny harmony.
During their travels, Rakan became fascinated by how Xayah interacted with the world. She seemed always prepared, aloof, and focused... whereas he was absent-minded, affable, and lacking seriousness. Although Rakan would often forget her carefully laid plans, he made up for it with his ability to read the emotions of others, using charisma and insight to persuade them. The two vastaya were so different, and yet they achieved great feats, each one’s strengths complementing the other’s weaknesses.
Soon enough, Rakan couldn’t imagine life without Xayah, and it was clear that she felt the same for him. The pair pledged themselves to each other in the midst of a raucous tavern brawl.
Yet they did not see eye to eye in all things. Where she viewed the world as black and white, with mortals always the enemy, he had more compassion, and believed some of them were redeemable. Despite this difference, Rakan was certain that his and Xayah’s love for each other would bear them through the storms that lay ahead.
Through Xayah, Rakan has found purpose. Inspired by his partner’s singular drive, Rakan has made her crusade his own, and together they will fight to reclaim the First Lands for the vastaya.
Rakan has white hair, which is accentuated by a bold red stripe running through it. His small red cape conceals the base of vibrant yellow plumage, which cascades down like a regal cape. Adorning the cape is a single bird skull which keeps the cape in place. Shirtless, he showcases two bracers on his arms, concealing additional yellow plumage underneath. Rakan wears azure pants which secured by a red rope belt adorned with bird skulls. True to his Lhotlan lineage, Rakan bears avian features such as bird legs and pointed, feathered ears.
As the title suggests, he's as charming as they come, being an emotionally aware guy and incredibly graceful. Because this he can be a flamboyant and showy performer, as he is energetic and confident. But he is also brave and loyal, and compassionate and unlike his lover, Xayah, he tends to act on instinct than planning.
Rakan is a Lhotlan Vastayan who travels Ionia as a wandering entertainer. After meeting and getting in a relationship with Xayah , both travel Ionia to preserve Ionia's natural magic from being controlled by humans. They are not married, since Xayah wants to hear him proposing to her everyday.
Rakan and Xayah fought Zed and his Order of the Shadow in Wild Magic to prevent them from harvesting a magical grove for the Kashuri Armories, the creators of Jhin's Whisper .
The Charmer
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Rakan
Mentioned: Xayah
Short Story
A Piece of Shadow Cake
Xayah jumped upward into the trees' foliage, dodging the gunfire that exploded from the temple's walls.
Starring: Rakan , Xayah , Zed
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
Nothing Rhymes with Tubebow
Two paths lead to the monastery fortress from the villages below it,' Xayah begins.
Restoring the wild magic of Ionia won't be easy when a deadly enemy lurks in the shadows.
Short Story • 7 Minute Read
Puboe Prison Break
By Matthew Dunn
Rakan is the worst.
Starring: Xayah
Mentioned: Rakan
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Light and Shadow
By Numerous creators
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
The school year comes and goes, but we’ll share these memories forever.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Shine So Bright
Xayah's search for Star Guardian allies brings her to, of all places, a concert in the park. Is this bubbly popstar with a penchant for glitter the teammates she's been looking for?
Starring: Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Idolized by many, dismissed by some, mystifying to all, the curious being, Rammus , is an enigma. Protected by a Spiked Shell , Rammus inspires increasingly disparate theories on his origin wherever he goes - from demigod, to sacred oracle, to a mere beast transformed by magic. Whatever the truth may be, Rammus keeps his own counsel and stops for no one as he roams the desert.
Rammus' appearance is a mixture of a real life armadillo and a tortoise, with spiked red and silver colored leather straps used as some sort of clothing. His spiked shell has a brown earthy texture to its carapace, with additional golden reliefs at its edges. His plastron is of a light flesh color while his limbs and head are of a green (with a scaly texture). His eyes have been seen to glow ether red or yellow.
Rammus has a calm demeanor, approaching situations in a relaxed state and rarely talks. He shows up randomly should any Shurimans be in trouble and rescue them from said trouble, its unknown why he does this however.
Rammus has no relationships with other characters
The Armordillo
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Rammus
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Caravan North
Ojan's knife whittled the edge of the ironwood into a soft curve. As an eight-year-old, he wasn't the most practiced craftsman; his wood block was just starting to resemble something round and spiky.
Short Story
The Shuttered Manse
By Graham McNeill
She felt the thief coming closer with every careful step he took.
Starring: Elise , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Kindred , Rammus , Swain
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The product of brutal experimentation at the hands of the Black Rose , Rell is a defiant, living weapon determined to topple Noxus . Her childhood was one of misery and horror, enduring unspeakable procedures to perfect and weaponize her magical control over metal... until she made a violent escape, killing many of her captors in the process. Now branded as a criminal, Rell attacks Noxian soldiers on sight as she searches for survivors of her old “academy”, defending the meek while delivering merciless death to her former instructors.
Born in Noxus , Rell's father was a military footsoldier while her mother was an heir to a now fallen noble house, causing Rell's childhood to lack the usual gilded upbringing that other noble children have in Noxus. Growing up into rough household, Rell started to vent her rage toward other children who mocked her, leading her to discover her love for fighting. Eventually, she decided to become a Reckoner with full supports from her parents as they saw it as profitable means of income for their poor financial situations. Overtime, she became a champion of the arena but all her earnings were wasted by her parents on expensive clothes and jewelries, which caused Rell to resent her parents overtime. Eventually, she caught the attention of the owner of the arena, Ambessa Medarda who saw her potential and offered to induct her into her warband. Her parents, especially her mother, wasted no time giving up their daughter to Ambessa in hope that they could gain influence within Noxian nobility by having the powerful House Medarda as their patron. Rell followed Ambessa willingly as she sicked of her parents constant exploitation of her.
As she trained under Ambessa, Ambessa saw her as a potential heir in case Mel failed her and considered Rell as her adoptive daughter. During the battle against Ambessa's rebellious niece, Rell's rare and unique magical ability called ferromancy sparked and enabled her to defeat the enemy. Ambessa ordered her to kill her niece, which Rell complied. Seeing her potential, Ambessa decided to officially adopt her as a Medarda and groom her to be her successor or at least being Mel's right-hand women to create a powerful sister duo for the glory of the Medarda clan. However, Leblanc kidnapped Rell under Ambessa's nose, causing Ambessa to lose her adoptive daughter.
Her parents learned about their daughter's fate but Leblanc charmed them to let her exploit Rell in exchange for powers and influence. Once again, her parents sold off their daughter to the Black Rose, hoping the shadowy organization could earn them a place in Noxian government inner circle.
Rell was enrolled into the Roseguard Academy [ 1 ] , a boarding school for mages, hidden far away from the Noxian capital. Rell became the star pupil of her school and was visited by her parents on rare occasions, who expressed how proud they were of her. At the age of eight, Rell was forced into her first sparring match against one of her classmates, defeating him easily. While her sparring opponent was never seen again, the academy's staff painfully grafted a magical sigil onto Rell's skin, amplifying her magic. Rell trained within the academy for years and honed her skill in using her magic with martial combat, growing powerful with every sparring match she won and every sigil applied to Rell's skin. Overtime, most of the other students came to fear their turn to fight against her, with some even growing to hate her. One particular student, a boy named Gabriel who had the power to shape dirt into tiny fauna, actually befriended Rell and often comforted her as she recovered from the academy's abuse. Unfortunately, he would be instructed to combat against Rell next, forcing her to fight her only friend as he disappeared soon after, fueling her rage against the academy. [ 2 ]
After a particularly barbaric duel on her sixteenth birthday, Rell became up with her mysteriously brutal training. She tore through the academy's guards and faculty to venture into a forbidden wing of the school, discovering the academy's horrifying truth-that her classmates had been Nullified . The students, now called Null, were emotionless, mindless husks that had their magic forcibly extracted from their bodies and turned into the same magic sigils that branded Rell's body. Rell then confronted the academy's headmistress only to discover that it was her own mother, who ensured that everything she did was for Rell's own sake.
In a fit of rage, Rell unleashed her full power and destroyed the school, ripping the building apart and using the metal to form her impenetrable suit of black armor. Bursting through the door with a lance and steed she constructed with her powers, she killed most of the staff and freed as many classmates as possible.
A Noxian wanted poster calling for Rell's capture.
Many classmates, including the Null children, fled after Rell's violent escape. In a bid to conceal the horrific acts that occurred within the academy, the Black Rose swiftly embarked on a mission to recapture the Null and eliminate any trace of the institution. Moreover, their utmost priority was the retrieval of their most valuable asset—Rell herself—who the Black Rose named a notorious fugitive and a threat to the empire. Plastered across Noxus, an array of wanted posters depicted Rell as a formidable criminal, with most Noxian soldiers seeing any mission to apprehend her as a death sentence. Promising substantial rewards to those capable of apprehending her, the posters advised individuals to deliver her to the nearest empire building marked with a signature Black Rose. [ 3 ]
Rell has emerged as a self-proclaimed defender of the meek and a violent insurgent, leading a relentless rebellion against both the Black Rose and the Noxian government. Because of the empire's willful disregard of the horrors that happened within the academy, she rides valiantly through the streets of Noxus atop her formidable iron steed and consumed with hatred against the entire nation. Her sole focus now is to dismantle the very foundations upon which Noxus stands and rescuing any survivors of the academy, most notably the Null.
A warband in the outskirts of Noxus, lead by a former instructor of the academy named Instructor Lukas, managed to locate Rell and attempted to detain her. A minotaur soldier knocked Rell unconscious by tossing a boulder at her, but she woke up soon after and formed her metal steed from raw ore out of the ground. Rell easily killed the entire warband in a whirlwind of metallic shards and grabbed Lukas, who revealed that Gabriel, Rell's Nullified friend from the academy, was located at the nearby camp. Rell instantly crushed him to death and rode towards the camp to free Gabriel.
Rell standing above Gabriel's gravestone, which she decorated with crude metal statues of animals in his honor.
Unfortunately, once at the hidden camp, Rell found Gabriel's malnourished corpse, as the Black Rose's warbands usually neglect the Null once they're detained. Pained by the discovery, Rell buried his body and created a gravestone out of metal, using her powers to decorate it with crude animal statues in his honor. [ 2 ]
At some point, a compound near the coastal settlement of Qualthala in the southern jungles managed to successfully detain Rell and at least one Null. Fortunately, Rell managed to escape by tearing her cell and the compound apart, leaving a mess of metallic shards and a hole leading into the jungles, presumably escaping alongside whatever Null was imprisoned there as well. [ 4 ]
Rell is a dark-skinned teenage girl with yellow eyes and bright blonde hair with some highlights of yellow. She typically wears a light suit of armor with leather pads on the shoulders, hips and knees. Her left hand has a torn arm sleeve with leather padding, while her right arm is sleeveless and covered in pieces of metal branding her with magical sigils. She wields her metal lance in her right hand and makes it glow a deep orange-yellow whenever she heats it up. Her mount is a metal construct shaped into the form of a horse thanks to her ferromancy magic.
When Rell leaps off of her mount, she reshapes it into an even heavier set of metal armor that goes over her current outfit. Her heavy metal armor has a massive chest plate, knee guards, pieces of metal floating at the sides of her legs and a huge, spiked shoulder guard on her left shoulder.
Rell is impulsive, restless and aggressive. Her trauma at the Black Rose's academy, combined with her young age, has made her vengeful and misanthropic, having a distrustful attitude towards most people and feeling no hesitation to kill anyone that threatens her or whoever she's protecting. She feels pure hatred for the Black Rose and all of Noxus, blaming them for tall the atrocities she witnessed in the academy and expressing her hatred for everything about her nation, ranging from the politics to the people and even to the very land itself. In spite of this, she's very passionate about rescuing and protecting any of her surviving classmates from the academy, most notably the Null whom she feels deep guilt over. Though Rell struggles with connecting and socializing with most people due to her temper and distrust, she's shown to be capable of romantic feelings and has been easily flustered by both males and females she's attracted to.
The Black Rose were the organization that initially took Rell in to the Roseguard Academy under the guise of training her to be an elite in Noxus's army. However, Rell eventually realized the horrific truth of their experiments on her and the other classmates in the academy, such as their experimentation with sigil magic that turned most of Rell's classmates into the Null.
Rell has a deep hatred towards the Black Rose, and all of Noxus for that matter, because of what they did to her and her classmates within the academy. Now, as she rides across Noxus, she hunts down any remaining faculty that survived her escape and is set on brutally killing any of the Black Rose she manages to find. In response, the Black Rose have made many efforts to try and detain Rell, sending all manners of bounty hunters to capture her for their plans in stopping the menacing Mordekaiser .
LeBlanc is the one who initially took notice to Rell's particular mastery with metal magic. After visiting Rell's parents, she offered a deal with them to take Rell into the academy and train her to be the Black Rose's living weapon, promising to make Rell an elite in the Noxian army and granting their noble house more political power in Noxus.
Though she hasn't personally encountered Rell since her escape, she is most likely responsible for the many efforts to detain her.
Rell's father was a Noxian footsoldier while her mother was the heiress to a noble house that has since fallen from grace. Though technically nobles, Rell's family didn't enjoy the lavish lives that other members of the Noxian nobility would have due to their lowered political power, causing Rell to often be frustrated. After Rell showcase her fighting prowess and decides to become a Reckoner, her parents support her fully to exploit the massive income from her fighting in the arena and waste it on lavish lifestyle, straining her relationship with her parents. They also have no problem selling her to Ambessa to gain the patronage of House Merdada to gain prominence in Noxus nobility but Rell decides to go through with it as she eventually sees Ambessa like a mother she never has.
All the Null are the product of the Black Rose's experiments with sigil magic, with each of them being a former classmate of Rell's that she was forced to fight. Once defeated, these kids would have their magic forcefully extracted from their bodies and placed into a sigil, branded into Rell's skin.
Because of the guilt she feels for the experiments and because she personally knew these Null kids in the past, Rell is dedicated to finding and freeing these Null before the Black Rose can detain and hide them away. One particular Null named Gabriel was a dear friend of Rell, but she unfortunately found him dead in an encampment on her quest to find and save him.
Rell and Samira have not met, but Samira is very aware of her due to the fact that she has gone on many missions to locate and detain Rell under the orders of her boss Captain Indari , who is secretly working alongside LeBlanc.
Most recently, Samira was sent on a mission to retrieve Rell from containment in a compound near Qualthala , but had arrived too late as Rell already escaped alongside the Null. Despite this, Samira is incredibly intrigued by Rell, unaware of the truth behind Rell's origins.
Rell is completely unaware of Mordekaiser and has never met him, but her training with the Black Rose is the product of their plans to turn her into the perfect 'living weapon' to use against Mordekaiser as a contingency once he returns to the physical realm. This is most likely due to her particularly rare and powerful ability to manipulate metal, which is what Mordekaiser's physical, armored body is mostly made of.
Ambessa took Rell as protege in after realizing her potentials and Rell eventually became fond of Ambessa to the point of seeing her as a mother figure. After Rell awakes her ferromancy and proves her loyalty to Ambessa, Ambessa decides to make her a Merdada as potential successor for Mel or being at least Mel's right-handed woman. However, Rell was taken by the Black Rose, furthering her hatred toward the dark organization.
The Iron Maiden
By Jared Rosen , David Slagle
Starring: Rell
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser
The Iron Maiden (Video)
An armored metalmancer fights back against those who betrayed her.
Short Story
The Second Grave
By Jared Rosen
Rell thought about the Null often.
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill
Daredevil Impulse
By Michael Luo
The weapons shop looked grimy—just the way Samira liked it.
Starring: Indari , Samira
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Rell
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Battle Queen Crests
By Cat Manning , Jared Rosen
To be a Battle Queen is to see with open eyes. As you complete Keystone Crest Missions, you’ll be rewarded with a story of nobility.
Starring: Diana , Janna , Katarina , Leona , Qiyana , Rell
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Shadow of a Doubt
Star Guardians have a brilliant light, but some stagger in the darkness. Can Akali escape her own nightmares?
Starring: Akali , Morgana
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Quinn , Rell , Taliyah
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Renata Glasc rose from the ashes of her childhood home with nothing but her name and her parents’ alchemical research. In the decades since, she has become Zaun’s wealthiest chem-baron, a business magnate who built her power by tying everyone’s interests to her own. Work with her, and be rewarded beyond measure. Work against her, and live to regret it. But everyone comes to her side, eventually.
Renata was born in the city of Zaun, her parents were brilliant alchemists who used their knowledge to make medicine, but they had a big heart that even rejected the money they were given, Renata got used to going to bed hungry because of it.
When she was old enough Renata was finally able to join the family business, but she was not as skilled in alchemy as her parents were, but her ambition prompted her to start charging higher class Zaunites.
She proudly gave the money she had earned to her parents, but instead of using it to live more comfortably, they used it to finance research into a new medicine that could prolong life. In Piltover, the leaders of the most powerful clans found out about the Glasc family's experiments and, not wanting a threat, they paid some vigilantes to kill them.
That same night Renata woke up suddenly to the screams of pain and fear from her parents, because they had set fire to their house around her. Renata tried to save them but lost an arm in the process. When the fire was extinguished, Renata was the only survivor, with only her parents' investigation in her hand.
Renata Glasc is a middle aged, lean, and brown skinned woman. Her hair is black with strains of grey showing. Her eye colors are chemically altered and have a pink and purple hue. Her most notable features are her breather mask that she often wears and an elegantly designed chemtech-augmented left arm infused with chemicals . She wears an expensive white suit, with many intricate patterns and accessories.
Renata Glasc is a cunning and ruthless woman, determined to achieve her goals no matter what, having built her convictions from her past and doing anything to achieve her goals. Having survived the brutality of Zaun's streets, Renata decided to never again be put down.
Unlike other chembarons, Renata prefers to avoid violence, and instead resorts to manipulation, convincing others to do her bidding and satisfy her desires by tying their interest together, thus putting them in debt towards her. To manipulate the masses, she often feigns benevolence, taking advantage of crisis and tragedies to make herself a savior.
The trauma from her loss has made her deeply resentful of the idea of charity, deeming it foolish. She has a particular hatred towards Janna for not helping her family when she was young.
Renata held a grudge towards her parents for leaving the family in poverty when she was young. After they died, she looked down on her parents' methods of charity and dedicated herself to becoming successful to prove them wrong. However, underneath she still genuinely loves her parents and laments their deaths, wanting revenge on the ones which were involved.
Camille was among the Piltovan nobles responsible for the deaths of Renata's parents in 967 AN.
After being expelled from the University of Piltover and returning back to Zaun, Renata would be responsible for funding Viktor's augment research.
Ekko's parents, Wyeth and Inna, were forced to work in terrible working conditions under Renata's orders.
Renata funded the gunsmiths responsible for selling Samira her guns.
Renata with her cunning was able to turn Chem-Baron Spindlaw to her side to do her dirty work.
Zeri is a frequent nuisance to Renata, often sabotaging her operations throughout Zaun.
Elodat began working for Renata since she was twelve, and since then became one of Renata's most reliable devisers, with her providing Elodat's family with funds and jobs. After Renata demonstrated her Decanter in the Vesella Novelty Gala, she let Elodat visit her family after the demonstration. [ 1 ] She also had no problem with Elodat's brother having a same-sex relationship with his male fiancé. [ 2 ]
The Chem-Baroness
By Dana Luery Shaw
Starring: Renata Glasc
Short Story
Right On Time
Renata Glasc’s heels click angrily against the marble floors on her way to the front door.
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
The Unexpected Spark
By Michael Luo
"I can’t accept this,"
Starring: Ekko , Zeri
Mentioned: Inna , Renata Glasc , Wyeth
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Renekton is a terrifying, rage-fueled Ascended being from the scorched deserts of Shurima . Once, he was his empire's most esteemed warrior, leading the armies of Shurima to countless victories. However, after the empire's fall , Renekton was entombed beneath the sands, and slowly, as the world turned and changed, he succumbed to insanity. Now free once more, he is utterly consumed with finding and killing his brother, Nasus , who he blames, in his madness, for the centuries he spent in darkness.
As a child, Renekton was a fearless fighter, often engaging in street fights out of pride and enjoyment. Although his older brother Nasus disapproved of his behavior, Renekton continued to fight and fight, completely ignoring his brother's thoughts.
Later on in life, when Nasus left to join the prestigious Collegium of the Sun, he concerned about his brother getting killed by the fights he constantly getting himself into with them grew bigger as days passed. Eventually, he was able to help him enter into the shuriman army, though he was underage.
In the army, Renekton found a new purpose and fought in numerous battles with the help of his brute strength and Nasus's strategic planning, including in the battle of Zuretta where he single handedly fought 1 to 10 and won, successfully held off until Nasus and his reinforcements intervened. He earned the title of Gatekeeper of Shurima after the act.
As he serves the army for many decades, he earned a reputation for himself, with the aiming to be stronger than any other living entities and even outpower the God-Warriors , but inside that battle-scarred body lies a caring heart and a place for his brother Nasus. When he learned of his brother's impending death due to a curse, he immediately rushed to The Sun Disc , where Nasus lay barely alive. To save his brother's life, Renekton carried him up the stairs of The Sun Disc, knowing that the process would likely obliterate him. Despite his unworthiness thoughts, Renekton's sacrifice led to the ascension of both brothers, with Renekton becoming a powerful crocodile.
With his new powers, Renekton continued to lead the Shuriman army to victory for centuries, becoming an unstoppable force topping the power of his old-self, following Shurima's footsteps in every victorious battle. Though as the centuries went on, many believe his mortality was lost when he stepped into the light.
When Nashramae was captured and put under the law of Shurima, the crocodile beast went rampage and destroyed the grand library, completely annihilated it during the siege of the place. Nasus, hearing this, arrived at the scene to confront Renekton, causing his bloodlust dissipated under his brother's stern gaze and he turned away in shame.
During the battle of Icathia , Renekton fought alongside Aatrox , Nasus , and several other Ascended beings. However, things took a turn for the worse when the Void was unleashed during the battle , inflicting the dangerous Voidborn upon them.
Around the same time, Azir 's ascension was sabotaged by Xerath , who killed him and stole his power. When the brothers learned of this, they hurried back to the capital. However, upon their return a few days later, Xerath had absorbed so much energy that he had become nothing but solid energy himself, making him the most dangerous [1] Baccai ever unleashed.
In an effort to contain Xerath's power, the brothers managed to trap him within a sarcophagus but it wasn't easy-Xerath retaliates; it took a while for the duos to force him down the tomb of the empire's. Renekton then ordered Nasus to seal the tomb, knowing that he himself would be trapped there with Xerath for eternity. With a heavy heart, Nasus carried out Renekton's order and sealed the tomb, leaving the two trapped in the darkness forever.
Trapped within the tomb, Renekton continued to battle Xerath in the darkness. However, as centuries passed, the isolation and the unending battle took a toll on Renekton's mind and willpower, causing him to slowly lose his grip on sanity. Xerath, taking advantage of Renekton's weakened state, began to poison his mind and twist his thoughts.
Renekton soon became convinced that Nasus, his own brother, had been jealous of his power and had taken pleasure in locking him in the tomb with Xerath. This delusion only served to fuel Renekton's anger and despair, leading him to lash out at Nasus whenever he thought of him.
In the year 989 AN, Sivir , a treasure hunter hired by Cassiopeia , ventured into the tomb in search of riches. However, Cassiopeia betrayed Sivir and inadvertently released both Renekton and Xerath from their imprisonment.
Upon his release, Renekton, driven by the scent of his brother, immediately set out to find Nasus. However, he soon discovered that the world he knew eons ago had changed drastically, as he now wandered a desert landscape vastly different from the one he remembered. He wandered across the familiar scorching desert of Shurima he once known, and continued his search with a single-minded focus.
As Renekton searched the desert for his brother, he stumbled upon a group of sandtrawlers led by Sai-Surtha's. Upon discovering the group's latest victim, Uksem Heartsplitter, Renekton demanded to know the whereabouts of his brother. Instead of answering his question, Sai-Surtha's challenged Renekton to a duel.
Even when being haunted by memories of Xerath's power, Renekton emerged victorious from the battle, though he was sliced into pieces before re-forging himself and throwing the sandtrawler's body into the jaws of a nearby predator. Turning his attention to the remaining members of the group, Renekton confronted Raz Bloodmane , who suggested that Nasus might be found near the cliffs of Azuma.
Choosing to spare Raz's life, Renekton left the group behind and continued his search for Nasus.
*warning, the next section is based on information found within LOR, take this section with a grain of salt.*
While searching for Nasus, Renekton encountered a sand runner who had been sent by Azir to collect a medallion from the Sandthrasher's cavern. Cornering the runner near a sand spire after escaping the Bloodthirsty Marauder , Renekton attempted to take the medallion, but the runner managed to escape by dodging Renekton's axe and triggering a cave-in.
Later on, Renekton joined forces with the Sandthrashers and found a tower where Nasus was being held. However, upon seeing his brother, Renekton was consumed by the poison thoughts that Xerath had implanted in his mind eons ago. He crashed into the wall and found himself in the Chamber of Renewal with both Nasus and the sand runner from earlier.
In a fit of rage, Renekton attacked Nasus, allowing the scout to use the portal that Nasus had just gone through to escape. As the battle between the two brothers continued, they both grew to gigantic size, towering over everyone else. The outcome of the battle and their fates afterward remain unknown.
Renekton is a hulking monstrosity, being bipedal like a human but with the head of a crocodile. His body is covered in scales, green in the back and pale tan in the front. His beady, yellow-orange eyes seem to glow with pure rage. Each limb has only four digits, all with sharp, black claws. He has a long, crocodilian tail.
He generally wears only a few pieces of armor, silver and intricately crafted, on his head, shoulders, neck, forearms, and shins. Aside from this, he only wears a faded greenish-brown loin cloth. His weapon of choice is a massive crescent-shaped ax.
Even when Renekton was still a noble warrior, he has always had a violent side, liking to get into fights as a result of his hotheaded and unpredictable nature. When Renekton became an Ascended, he sometimes embraced his animalistic side while in battle, destroying entire cities in ways that shocked even those who saw him as a hero. While he was renowned for his cruelty and ruthlessness in battle, Renekton was still good at heart and cared deeply for his brother Nasus, even willing to sacrifice himself to save him, but these traits left Renekton vulnerable to Xerath's influence in the millennia they were locked away, and ultimately became Renekton's defining traits in his insanity.
While Nasus believes his brother is truly gone, some remain hopeful that the old Ascended hero could one day reclaim his old humanity to defeat his new, tyrannical master.
Nasus is the older brother of Renekton and became Ascended at the same time as him. While Nasus planned the battles, Renekton was the one to win the battles. When Xerath forced his Ascension, both Renekton and Nasus went to stop him and were the only two God-Warriors there. After a fierce battle, Renekton ordered Nasus to close the Tomb of the Emperors.
Renekton respects Azir and willingly serves him. Azir hopes that it would help him remember what he had forgotten. Renekton also trained Azir in the ways of combat.
Renekton spent eons battling Xerath within the tomb of the emporers. During this time, Xerath manipulated his slowing breaking mind to make him hate Nasus. Saikhal , Xerath's birthplace, was conquered by Renekton. Xerath was likely taken as a child slave at that time.
Sivir's interference allowed Renekton to escape the Tomb of the Emperors.
Aatrox , Varus , Rhaast , Xolaani , Anaakca , baalkux , horazi , ibaaros , Joraal , Naafiri , Naganeka , Praa , Styraatu , and Tarrosh were all part of Host of God-Warriors , and all served Shurima together with Renekton.
The Butcher of the Sands
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Renekton
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Sivir , Xerath
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Darkness Renews
By Graham McNeill
Am I a god?
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Xerath
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Empires of the Ascended (Video)
A buried empire. A brother’s betrayal. A relic that could change everything.
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton
Fall of the Empire
By Numerous creators
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton , Xerath
Short Story
Firewood was precious in the desert, but the blackened ruins of Vekaura offered a plentiful supply of charred timbers to hurl on bonfires.
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Varus followed a river running through the desert. Its water was gritty, but drinkable. The new body he had wrought to bear his bow was beautiful, fast and strong, but it came with the weaknesses of flesh. It hungered. It thirsted.
Starring: Varus
Mentioned: Kai , Naafiri , Nasus , Renekton , Valmar
By Ryan Verniere
Nasus walked at night, unwilling to face the sun. The boy followed in his wake.
Starring: Nasus
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Xerath
Short Story • 9 Minute Read
Sai Kahleek (Short Story)
By Odin Austin Shafer
Six boys and a camel, and the boys were cheaper to replace. Some were orphans and escaped slaves, but most were off casts — teenagers abandoned by families too poor to keep them. When Shahib offered him the work, Jaheje hadn't eaten in days.
Starring: Rek'Sai
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
The Curator of the Sands
The Emperor of the Sands
Starring: Azir
Mentioned: Nasus , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
The Magus Ascendant
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
Water and Shade To You
For the first time Khari could remember, flowers grew on the street leading from the town square to the Cut.
Mentioned: Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Music Video
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Rengar is a ferocious vastayan trophy hunter who lives for the thrill of tracking down and killing dangerous creatures. He scours the world for the most fearsome beasts he can find, especially seeking any trace of Kha'Zix , the void creature who scratched out his eye. Rengar stalks his prey neither for food nor glory, but for the sheer beauty of the pursuit.
Rengar hails from a tribe of Shuriman vastaya known as the Kiilash, whose society venerated the honor and glory of the hunt. Rengar was born the runt of the litter to the tribe's chieftain, Ponjaf. Ponjaf believed Rengar's diminutive size would make him a worthless hunter. He ignored his child, assuming the runt would starve to death.
Eventually, the young Rengar fled the camp, ashamed that he had disappointed his father. He subsisted on grubs and plants for weeks until, one day, he was nearly killed by a legendary human hunter named Markon. Upon seeing Rengar's state, he took pity on the creature and let it live. Besides, this was no mighty vastayan warrior worthy of Markon's blade.
Rengar spent months following Markon, feeding off the corpses the hunter left behind. He still hoped to one day rejoin his tribe, and so took great care in observing how Markon took down his quarries.
After some time, Markon grew sick of the pathetic Kiilash following him around. He put a knife to Rengar's throat and informed him that the only way to be a hunter was to hunt. He tossed Rengar the blade and kicked him down a ravine, where he was forced to make his first kill to survive.
From then on, Rengar spent years pushing himself almost to breaking point. He scoured Shurima for the most powerful and dangerous prey. Though he would never be as big as other Kiilash, Rengar was determined to be twice as ferocious. Over time, instead of coming back to his camp each time with fresh scars, he began to come back with trophies. He polished a sandhawk's skull to a sheen; he braided the teeth of a shrieker into his hair.
Then, when he decided the time had come, Rengar returned to his tribe, ready to be accepted as a true hunter.
Ponjaf scoffed at Rengar and his trophies. He decreed that only by bringing back the head of the elusive and legendary Void-abomination known as Kha'Zix would Rengar be welcomed back into the tribe.
Blinded by his eagerness, Rengar allowed this cunning beast to get the drop on him. The Void creature ripped out one of Rengar's eyes and escaped. Furious and defeated, Rengar admitted his failure to Ponjaf. As expected, his father chastised him.
But as Ponjaf spoke, Rengar noticed all the trophies adorning his father's hut were dusty and old. The chieftain had not hunted anything in a long time—he had likely sent Rengar after Kha'Zix because he was too afraid to do it himself.
Rengar interrupted his father and called him a coward. Many Kiilash were blessed with strong bodies or comfortable homes. Rengar, conversely, was born facing death. He had taught himself how to hunt, and had the trophies and scars to prove it. Even his own bloody eye socket was a trophy: proof that though Rengar was born with disadvantages, he never gave up.
Rengar leapt onto his father and gutted him from neck to belly. The fiercest hunters of the tribe crowned him with flame-roses, marking him as their new chieftain.
But Rengar didn't need his village's acceptance. All he needed was adrenaline pumping through his veins as he chased down his prey. He left the village, without even pausing to take a trophy from what was left of Ponjaf—his father was not a kill worthy of remembering. Instead, he set off determined to find and slay the Void creature that had tried to blind him.
Not to satisfy the Kiilash, but to satisfy himself.
During the invasion of the Black Mist, Rengar encountered its spectral manifestations in the jungles of Ixtal. Despite his prowess as a hunter, he found himself ill-equipped to combat these ethereal foes and was overwhelmed. Lucian and a Sentinel recruit intervened, rescuing Rengar from the wraiths. Initially shaken by the encounter, Rengar was reluctant to continue the fight. However, the recruit's encouragement reignited his determination. Recognizing the Mist as a formidable prey, Rengar joined the Sentinels. He was outfitted with relic weapons capable of harming the wraiths and took the Sentinel's oath, committing to the battle against the Ruined King.
Rengar is a hulking anthropomorphic lion covered in white fur. He has a hunched, broad-shouldered build, digitigrade legs, and tan claws on every digit. His right eye is blue while his left eye is missing, having been covered with an eyepatch-like device that glows yellow. The fur on his head is usually fashioned into several long braids that drape across his back. He also has a shaggy beard, usually tied off into a single thin lock.
His hunting garb is appropriately brutal, a series of sparse metal plates with leather padding, "decorated" with bones and fangs.
Rengar's as fierce as they come as well as brave, he lives for the hunt and the thrill of it and he roams the land seeking worthy opponents or prey that can put up a fight, those he kills, he puts on display in his trophy collection. but while he is savage he is incredibly intelligent, much to that of a patient predator, he studies his prey for strengths and weaknesses and then start hunting.
Having fought and lost an eye as well as almost his life, Rengar sees Kha'Zix as the ultimate prey and wants to hunt him down and mount his head on his den as the ultimate hunting trophy .
Rengar was saved by Lucian and a Sentinel Rookie when the Sentinels of Light came to the jungles Ixtal in search of a fetter, he would later join them in order to hunt Viego to prove that he was still an apex predator.
The Pridestalker
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Rengar
Mentioned: Kha'Zix
Short Story
By Ian St. Martin
“As it has adapted, now so must I. For I will have my kill.”
Starring: Kha'Zix , Rengar
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
A predator feasting on fear. A hunter without any. Only one will make it out of this alive.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
By Jared Rosen
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
The Voidreaver
By Unknown Author
Starring: Kha'Zix
Mentioned: Rengar
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Cats Versus Dogs (Video)
This April Fools’, leave it all on the show floor.
Starring: Corki , Fizz , Rengar , Yorick
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a swordmaster in the warhosts of Noxus , Riven rose through the ranks on the strength of her conviction and brutal efficiency, and was rewarded with a legendary runic blade and a warband of her own. However, on the Ionian front, Riven's faith in her nation was tested and ultimately broken. She severed all ties to the empire, seeking to find her place in a shattered world, even as rumors abounded that Noxus had been reforged. Now forced to return in chains, she faces the judgment of her former homeland...
Riven was born on a farm in the coastal farming village of Trevale , in Noxus . Her father had been a soldier, slain in battle and her own mother was said to not survived the birth, leaving young Riven to work the farms as an orphan. Working a farm wasn't her lifelong goal, however. She longed for more. Inspired by warband conscriptors that would frequent Trevale, she would eventually join the Fury Company and pledge her strength to the Noxian Empire. Alongside her sisters- and brothers- in arms, whose bonds were forged in the heat of battle, a bond she saw as unbreakable, Riven thrived.
Despite her youth, Riven proved to be a natural soldier. Years of working at the farm made her strong, and in turn, allow her to master the weight of a longsword so much taller and heavier than herself. So strong was her dedication, that it got her noticed by Boram Darkwill , the emperor of Noxus, who bestowed Riven her own massive runic blade, said to be enchanted by a certain pale sorceress in his court.
Not long after, Riven and her warband would sail for Ionia, intended to take part of the long planned Noxus-led occupation. The war dragged, and it became clear that Ionia would not kneel. Fury Company was eventually assigned to escort another warband, through the embattled Navori Province. The warband's leader, a commander by the name of Emystan, had just commissioned weapons from a Zaunite alchymist, and was eager to test them out. Riven had been glad to put her life on the Altar of the Noxian Empire across countless campaigns, but the something had been off about this one. The soldiers, the weapons' purpose, something was off. It made Riven uneasy.
This campaign, much like the others, was met with strong resistance. It was the land itself fighting back. Stranded on a muddy landslide during a rainstorm, the Ionian resistance saw an opportunity. Seeing the opposition, Riven called Emystan for backup. It would be the last Captain Riven would ever do.
A flaming arrow, flown from the ridgeside, embedded itself into the wagon. Riven had instinctively drawn her sword, but it wasn't enough to protect anyone but herself. Chemical flames burst from the wagon, engulfing Noxian and Ionian alike, leaving them to suffer a slow agonizing death. Saved from the toxic mist by the magic in her Runeblade, Riven could only watch in horror as both family and foe slowly choked to death on the poisonous fumes. There she realized the high cost of the war bent not on expanding Noxus's borders or spreading its ideals, but one of complete and utter annihilation. One of complete utter betrayal and atrocity.
Memories of the event would only come to Riven later in nightmares, but the impact was enough. Disgusted with the betrayal, Riven had come to hate the blade that saved her life, her final tie to Noxus. Seeking the assistance of a windblade master, Riven would have it shattered, but even that failed to bring her peace. She wandered the Ionian countryside, deciding exile was a better price for someone who'd wrought as much damage as she.
Eventually, her travels would return her to the village where she'd broken the sword. There, she would be taken in by a pair of Ionian farmers, distraught over the loss of their own sons, but unwilling to live in the past and fully ready to embrace the future. Once she'd regain her health, Riven would help them in the fields until one day Ionian soldiers came for her. Then, she learned that the master she'd sought help for to destroy her blade had perished, and that in seeing her blade, the Ionian soldiers have new evidence as to who might have done it.
Now dragged to court, Riven faced trail for the murder of Elder Souma, whom she currently had no true recollection of ever meeting. After being bombarded with questions, Riven's blade, the Runesword she had sought to destroy and now laid in pieces sans one, was brought out. The final piece, found embedded in the corpse of Elder Souma, was slotted back into the weapon and revived the deactivated weapon and her memories. Riven was in fact, she revealed, the one who killed Elder Souma.
That night she was made to stay in the trail room, to await her sentence. A hooded man, who'd had approached her the day before prior to her arrest, came to her. There, he revealed himself to be Yasuo , Elder Souma's apprentice, who'd been tasked to guard the elder but had left to fight in the Noxian Invasion . He'd return to his village to his master dead, his village attacked, and first and foremost had been accused of Souma's murder. Now seeking vengeance, he challenged Riven to a fight, to which she agreed.
The battle was on then.
Only stopping when Riven's Runic blade, activated but still very much in pieces, slid and a piece shot out, the piece flying in the direction of Riven's adoptive father, Asa Konte, who'd had come to Riven to free her from her chains. It would've killed him were it not for Yasuo's windwall, stopping right as it was about to embed itself onto the old man's neck. There it was where Riven understood, that they both could not escape their pasts, but can embrace change. When the magistrate returned, Riven was ready to face her sentence. The council, seeing as no longer wishing for additional bloodshed, had sentenced her to years of servitude in the farms around the village, starting that of the Kontes. Riven, now reforged somewhat, agreed.
In the later years, Riven was caught and she was forced to fight as a Reckoning in the Reckoner’s Arena, which is run by Darius’s brother, Draven. She later helped Lucian, Senna, and Vayne escape during the harrowing in Noxus and temporarily joined the Sentinels of Light to atone for her sins. Her whereabouts after the events of the Sentinels of Light were unknown, presumably returning to the Kontes’ farm.
She was ruthless and efficient as a warrior, but her true strength lay in her conviction. She entered battles without any trace of doubt in her mind: no ethical pause, no fear of death. She is a determined and fiercely devoted individual with internal discipline.
Riven is a tall woman with an athletic build, tanned skin, dark golden eyes, and platinum white hair tied up in a bow.
She usually wears a two-part white dress, as well as bandages on her right arm and she has parts of black armor that covers her shoulder, left leg, and a metal glove on her left hand.
Riven was a Noxian soldier sent to Ionia during the empire's invasion. A traumatic experience during the campaign involving Singed's chemicals caused her to question her devotion and sever her ties to Noxus, wandering ever since. Singed was approached by a Noxian military commander named Emystan, who Riven's unit was assigned to escort, to help her break the bitter stalemate of the war in Ionia . When Riven called to Emystan for support during a battle, both sides were annihilated by the chemicals he created. Seeing the approval of slaughter of the innocent caused by Singed and Emystan also made Quilletta Varn grew more disillusioned by the empire's ambitions, which led to her rebel against the empire and the events of Darius' comic Blood of Noxus .
Yasuo suspected Riven of being the one who killed Elder Souma, whom Yasuo was supposed to protect ( "Wait, that technique ... huh" , "Huh, three swift strikes... " , "Another wind blade?" , "Who taught you that ?" ) Riven eventually confessed to unintentionally killing Elder Souma: desperate to erase her past as a Noxian invader and killer, Riven begged the elderly wind -master to shatter her runic blade, which was the past's memento. Souma succeeded, yet a stray shard struck his neck, killing him.
The confession absolved Yasuo of murder, yet not of his personal guilt of abandoning his post that led to Souma's accidental death and him having to kill multiple brethen in self-defense, including his own brother . Yasuo's presence or absence making a difference was highlighted during Riven's trial, when he focused the Wind Technique on Riven's sword as Souma would have, and the shard that killed his master nearly did the same to Asa Konte, Riven's adopted father. This time, Yasuo was able to stop the shard before it could cause any harm.
Her blade was enchanted by LeBlanc , who is seemingly trying to take it back.
Riven's sisters in war Arrel , Marit and Teneff were tasked with and succeeded in bringing her back to Noxus , where she was sentenced to life in the Fleshing Arena . The group leader, Tifalenji , was sent by LeBlanc to retrieve the blade. She was angry when she found out it was broken (and LeBlanc will possibly be, too).
Draven finds her a worthy opponent when she was forced to fight in his arena.
Riven helped the Sentinels of Light escape from Reckoner's Arena and would later join them in their fight against Viego's Ruination. Riven was initially rebuked by Irelia , due to her past actions during the Noxian Invasion, but eventually gained her respect during their time together as Sentinels of Light.
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Riven
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , LeBlanc , Singed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story • 11 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 1
In the wake of war between Noxus and Ionia, Riven is accused of a heinous crime.
Mentioned: Yasuo , Yone
Short Story • 14 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 2
Riven stands trial for the murder of Yasuo's master. New evidence is revealed, a broken blade.
Short Story • 9 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 3
As the trial concludes, Riven must finally face the horrors of her past.
Starring: Riven , Yasuo
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
Seams and Scars
By Dana Luery Shaw
“How came you to Ionia, friend?”
Sisterhood of War Part 3: Irreparable
By Ian St. Martin
The light is dying.
Starring: Arrel , Erath , Marit , Riven , Teneff , Tifalenji
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
Beyond the Garden
With the arrival of the Spirit Blossom Festival, a magical fawn musters the courage to venture out and uncover the mystery behind her ailing forest.
Starring: Lillia
Mentioned: Kindred , Riven , Teemo
Orchid's Bloom
By Michael Yichao
Jing breathed deep.
Starring: Yasuo
Mentioned: Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Sisterhood of War Part 1: Old Wounds
“Is anything you just heard unclear to you?”
Starring: Arrel , Erath , Marit , Teneff , Tifalenji
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Riven , Swain , Syndra
Sisterhood of War Part 2: The Unquiet Dead
She cannot breathe.
Mentioned: Riven , Singed
The Defiant Blade
A decade after the Battle of the Placidium, Ionia honors the young woman who inspired a revolution.
Starring: Irelia
Mentioned: Riven
The Unforgiven
Mentioned: Azir , Riven , Taliyah , Yone
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Cosmic Creation
Transform your destiny.
Starring: Riven , Viktor , zoe
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Unto Darkness, Unto Light
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Rumble is a young inventor with a temper. Using nothing more than his own two hands and a heap of scrap, the feisty yordle constructed a colossal mech suit outfitted with an arsenal of electrified harpoons and incendiary rockets. Though others may scoff and sneer at his junkyard creations, Rumble doesn't mind—after all, he's the one with the flamespitter.
Born in Bandle City , Rumble was bullied by his fellow yordles when he was younger, making him irritable and scrappy. He found solace in tinkering using discarded junk in the junkyard.
Rumble's teachers recommended him to go to Heimerdinger 's Yordle Academy of Science and Progress in Piltover , but Rumble rejected it, seeing Heimerdinger and his staff as sellouts for wasting the potential of yordle technology for humans. However, this did not stop him from trying to greet Heimerdinger's human students whom had travelled to Bandle City. Unfortunately for him, the interaction culminated in him getting beaten up and hearing how much of an embarrassment he was to "enlightened" yordles like Heimerdinger. The next day, Rumble left Bandle City for several months. He returned with his mech Tristy, that he had constructed from scavenged junk, eager to show what yordle technology was capable of.
Disguising himself as an elderly merchant, Rumble visited Nashramae , Shurima to purchase wares from the other merchants. His cart was bumped into by a Shuriman cripple named Anaktu, whom was being bullied by the governor's stepson Kesu Rance and his friends. Initially indifferent towards Anaktu, Rumble took offense when Kesu began insulting him as well. He walked to his stall to activate Tristy in order to intimidate the bullies, but the mech began to malfunction, causing the bullies to attack the mech and taunt Rumble. Anaktu grabbed a mace from Rumble's stall to defend him, before swinging it at the bullies. As Kesu was about to attack him, Rumble came to Anaktu's defense with an electrified harpoon . Warming up to Anaktu, Rumble invited him to ride on his mech, letting him activate the flamespitter and inviting him to watch his Equalizer fire its rockets, barring off Kesu's escape route. Anaktu asked Kesu why he was bullying him, with the latter confessing he wanted to impress his Noxian father. With Rumble's glamour expiring, the yordle threatened Kesu with a harpoon, demanding him to apologize to him. Kesu tried to apologise for his bullying, but Rumble told him that he disrespected junk and how it had so much potential. After Kesu dumbfoundedly apologized, Rumble decided to return to Bandle City. Anaktu offered to return his mace, but Rumble let him keep it out of respect towards his appreciation of junk.
Rumble disguises himself as a travelling merchant. He wears a cape and vest with short sleeves. He wears very large boots which disappear beneath his vest. Like most male Yordles , he is covered in fur.
Because he was bullied by others, it made him irritable, resourceful and scrappy, and make him build a mech so that no one would look down on him again.
Rumble is a resourceful yordle mechanic who is convinced Bandle City can be (if not is already) more technologically advanced than human nations (especially Piltover , where Heimerdinger 'sold out')
To prove that he is more technologically advanced than human nations, he built himself a mechanized suit from junkyard scrap (named Tristy after the one he has a crush on).
The Mechanized Menace
Starring: Rumble
Short Story
Shuriman Trash
By Amanda Jeffrey
So I was walking through this little plaza off the library district in Nashramae—super dusty, flagstones older than empires, and usually pretty quiet.
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
From The Journal Of Professor Cecil B. Heimerdinger
By Unknown Author
Starring: Heimerdinger
Mentioned: Rumble
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Widely considered one of the most adept sorcerers on Runeterra , Ryze is an ancient, hard-bitten archmage with an impossibly heavy burden to bear. Armed with immense arcane power and a boundless constitution, he tirelessly hunts for World Runes — fragments of the raw magic that once shaped the world from nothingness. He must retrieve these artifacts before they fall into the wrong hands, for Ryze understands the horrors they could unleash on Runeterra.
Born in Noxii territories which would later become Noxus , in the village of Khom , Ryze was a young mage apprentice to Master Tyrus of Helia , a member of a order tasked with gathering and protecting the most dangerous artifacts of Runeterra .
As time passed, Ryze would sometimes overhear Tyrus discussing something known as a World Rune , a collection of shards that held unbelievable power, but would hush himself if Tyrus ever spotted Ryze listening in. Though Tyrus tried his best to keep it hidden, word eventually got out about the World Runes and paranoia started to spread throughout Runeterra over how these World Runes could be used as weapons. Tyrus and Ryze traveled around Valoran trying to calm people down but the situation only grew more dire. Eventually though, the first shot was fired in what would later be known as the Rune Wars , in Noxii, Ryze's old home. Tyrus and Ryze tried and failed to hold a parley in Khom, but had no choice but to flee to the hills and when they looked back to Khom, nothing remained of Ryze's birthplace but a giant hole.
War raged across Runeterra, Ryze wanted to pick a side and help but Tyrus stopped him, Tyrus wanted to guide the world back towards peace, not bring it further into ruin. But the Rune Wars kept going, and Tyrus grew more and more distant. Eventually it got to a point where Ryze had to confront Tyrus, where he noticed Tyrus had come into possession of two World Runes. A big argument ensued, Tyrus argued that he needed the World Runes to stop the people, that there was no other way to stop the war. Ryze no longer saw Tyrus as his mentor, he was now just another man fallen to the temptation of the World Runes, and so Ryze mustered all the magic he was able to and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Soon after, the Rune Wars ended, with the greatest civilizations all but having destroyed eachother. Ryze realized that as long as any World Runes were unsecured, this could happen again. He decided then that he alone would take on the burden of gathering all the World Runes and storing them away for good, vowing never to fall into temptation like his old master Tyrus.
A battle raged in Shurima , between the darkin Aatrox and Xolaani , one which threatened to end all of Runeterra. As Ryze traveled, a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). appeared from the skies with a plea for help, Ryze recognized the messenger and realized it could only have come from Kayle herself. Kayle's mother and the Aspect of Justice, Mihira , had descended from the heavens to join the fight, but had fallen to Xolaani and been Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . As Ryze arrived at the battle, Kayle explained that Ryze alone had the power to stop the battle, by using the World Runes. Ryze hesitated, unsure whether it was right for him to act and with the World Runes no less. Ryze meditated on the history of Runeterra and ultimately came to the conclusion that Runeterra was worthy to be saved, and activated the World Runes, defeating Aatrox and Xolaani.
Ryze is a old man with violet skin due to prolonged contact with the World Runes. His body is full of tattoos in runic styles. He is bald but has a scrappy black beard, tied together at the end with a hair ring. Ryze is shirtless except for a a leather shoulderguard with a sash holding it together. A giant scroll is attached to his back, held there by the leather sash. He wears fairly detailess, loose, dark blue pants with high leather boots. Around his waist he wears a leather belt with a book tied to it.
Ryze has become tired, longing for the day when all of this is over. Always in a hurry to get anything done as fast as possible. He tends to come across as quite rude, though argues its because he has better things to be doing. Though he is tired, he is steadfast in his goal and will get it done no matter what cost, even if that cost is the life of his friend or the death of a village. Their deaths are nothing compared to what the World Runes could bring. Ryze has a strong control over his emotions, though he often gets mad, he never loses himself in an emotion. The only emotion he cannot control is hope, an emotion he tries desperately to get rid off, but always manages to influence him.
Kegan Rodhe, as he was known before he became Brand, was previously Ryze's apprentice, saved by Ryze from freezing to death in the harsh Freljordian cold. Ryze saw potential in Kegan and attempted to teach him to control his latent magical abilites. Kegan and Ryze both often became frustrated with eachother, but still held compassion for eachother.
Though as Ryze neared the true goal of his journey, to one of the World Runes, Kegan fell to the temptation of the World Rune and Ryze was too late to stop him. Kegan's body and soul was burned away by the World Rune's power and what was left was the entity known as Brand. Brand now hunts down further World Runes and is constantly at odds with Ryze on his mission. Eventually, Ryze and Brand would meet in Shurima in the City of Gardens , in search of another World Rune, where Ryze would trap Brand beneath the sands, where he remains for now.
Tyrus was Ryze's old master, member of a secret order tasked with storing and protecting the most dangerous of artifacts across Runeterra. Tyrus would later fall into the temptation of the World Runes, and Ryze was forced to kill him.
Long before Shurima rose again from the sands, Ryze and the Ascended scholar Nasus delved into the ruined World Rune Archives beneath the Great Sai in search of a World Rune.
During a shootout between Miss Fortune and a rival captain’s crew, Ryze got caught in their conflict and helped her out.
Sona traveled with Ryze to the Hirana Monastery in Ionia after the Noxian invasion and together fought the Navori Brotherhood who ambushed them.
Ryze once came face to face with Trundle and his Trolls while traveling through the Freljord.
In her journey to the Blessed Isles, Kalista crossed paths with Ryze during his formative years. Initially, she found the young apprentice brimming with arrogance and entitlement, reminiscent of her uncle, Viego . Their first encounter ended with Ryze's arm twisted, after which Ryze started to be far more respectful towards the Camavoran princess.
When hearing had Kalista sacrificed herself in order to give the people of Helia a chance to escape from the invading Camavorans, Ryze regretted not having had the opportunity to apologize for their initial meeting.
The Rune Mage
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Ryze
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
An Old Friend
Ryze would have been cold if his body wasn't simmering with nervous energy. With all that weighed on him that day, the harsh Freljordian elements scarcely seemed to have an effect. Neither was he daunted by the distant howl of a hungry ice troll. He had come to do a job. Not one he relished, but one that had to be done, and one he could no longer avoid.
Call of Power
Ryze scours Runeterra for fragments of a forgotten past, each step bringing him closer to incredible power—and terrible ruin.
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Nasus , Sona , Trundle
Short Story • 32 Minute Read
From the Ashes
By Aaron Dembski-Bowden
I can't do it.
Starring: Brand , Ryze
Short Story
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
The Burning Lands
By Aaron Dembski-Bowden , Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Legends speak of an ageless mage with violet skin.
The Burning Vengeance
By Ariel Lawrence , Laurie Goulding
Starring: Brand
Mentioned: Ryze
The Echoes Left Behind
Blood pooled beneath him, bright crimson against pristine white stone. His sword lay nearby, its blade broken. His killers stood around him, shadows on the periphery, but he saw nothing except her.
Starring: Kalista , Ledros , Thresh
Mentioned: Hecarim , Ryze , Viego
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Journey to Thy Golden Mustache!
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Braum , Gragas , Ryze , Varus
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Make History
In this battle of regions, one will conquer all others to make history.
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Elise , Evelynn , Janna , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Lucian , Morgana , Nautilus , Orianna , Pyke , Ryze
Ryze's 10-Year Realm Warp
Greetings, Summoners. Let me take you on a trip through the last ten years of League.
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Samira stares death in the eye with unyielding confidence, seeking thrill wherever she goes. After her Shuriman home was destroyed as a child, Samira found her true calling in Noxus , where she built a reputation as a stylish daredevil taking on dangerous missions of the highest caliber. Wielding black-powder pistols and a custom-engineered blade, Samira thrives in life-or-death circumstances, eliminating any who stand in her way with flash and flair.
Samira was born in the city of Amakra in Shurima, she lived together with her parents and worked with them as street artists, they dazzled, captivated and amazed the spectators, which Samira loved, but she was worried about her parents, who although they saw how happy their daughter was, they wished she had a much more comfortable life than theirs.
Before Samira turned fourteen Amakra was attacked by a group of bandits, who captured and sacrificed people in honor of an ancient wizard, Samira hid with her parents and later they escaped from the city and arrived at Bel'zhun a Noxian refuge.
Samira, determined to prove that she was not afraid of danger, enlisted in a Noxian battalion led by Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , who, seeing Samira's bubbly and impulsive personality, made her give her a place in her battalion, proving to be an excellent member.On Indari's orders, Samira traveled to the Rokkun plain to dismantle a separatist group, however the fortress in which they were based exploded, full of emotion Samira entered the fortress while it was falling apart, suffering a permanent wound to her left eye. Samira rescued Indari, who was seriously injured, losing sensation in her legs. Indari was forced to disband her battalion, after which Samira returned to Amakra.
Samira tried to live a quiet life together with her parents, but being still for a long time made her too anxious until she finally understood that she could not continue with that kind of life.
Samira returned to Noxus and looked for Indari, thinking that she would understand her more than anyone, Samira proposed a new collaboration to Indari and that is that she would be in charge of looking for mercenary jobs so that Samira would take them, she accepted although fearing for her disciple.
So little by little Samira's reputation rose more and more to such an extent that she was known, feared and respected both in Shurima and in Noxus, she traveled with the whole world fulfilling each job that Indari gave her, jumping into adventure.
Samira is a beautiful woman with tanned skin, she has an athletic and voluptuous physique, a round face with a mole on the right side of her lip, thick lips, wears an eyepatch over her right eye and her left eye is emerald green. Long black hair which she wears braided in a French braid that falls over her right shoulder on which she has woven golden jewels.
She has a slightly revealing uniform of red and black colors with leather boots, a short skirt and a short t-shirt that reveals her abdomen as well as several tattoos on her left arm.
Samira is quite a stubborn and impulsive woman, determined to show that she is not afraid of danger, enjoying the adrenaline rush that it caused her, despite everything she cared a lot about her parents wishing they were safe.
Samira performed in street performances alongside her parents when she was young. While she enjoyed performing, they wished her to live a more stable life. When her family immigrated to Noxus, she had to support her injured parents by herself but struggled to make ends meet. After becoming a mercenary, Samira told her parents about her tattoos and impressive feats. Samira is close to her mother, recalling the stories and advice she gave her when she was young.
Samira was forced to evacuate Amakra after it was attacked by Xerath's followers, and harbors a resentment towards him for his followers' destruction of her hometown.
Indari was impressed with Samira's bravery and commissioned her to be part of her own private warband. When Indari was caught in an explosion that severely wounded her, Samira risked her life to rescue her at the cost of her own eye. Despite Indari's shame towards her own failure, Samira knew that she understood her desire for thrills more than anybody and proposed to work with her again. Indari now supports Samira behind the scenes by providing her with mercenary work and takes pride in Samira's and determination though she can get frustrated at her recklessness causing trouble, though she has actually been conspiring with LeBlanc without Samira's knowledge.
Samira obtained her guns from Lani and Miel, two Noxian gunsmiths.
LeBlanc sees Samira as an important factor in her plans to take over Noxus, so she indirectly manipulates Samira through Indari into carrying out her missions to benefit her own goals.
Samira was unknowingly sent to find Rell under LeBlanc's instruction, by proxy of Indari.
Samira once fought Darius when he was under the influence of the Ruination caused by Viego .
The Desert Rose
By Michael Luo
Starring: Samira
Mentioned: Indari , Xerath
Short Story
Daredevil Impulse
The weapons shop looked grimy—just the way Samira liked it.
Starring: Indari , Samira
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Rell
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Choncc Dome
By Ty Sheedlo , Taylor Dinwiddie , Isa Mari De Leon , Elyse Lemoine
Just because the Tournament of Souls is all about 1v1 combat doesn't mean you have to train alone! That's why Choncc has gathered some of the greatest Soul Fighters under one roof—er… dome. So choose a champ and start gettin' swole , Choncc-style!
Starring: Gwen , Lux , Samira , Sett
Music Video
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Exploration
Starring: Blitzcrank , Gwen , Lulu , Lux , Nasus , Nunu , Rumble , Samira , Willump
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Sejuani is the brutal, unforgiving Iceborn warmother of the Winter's Claw , one of the most feared tribes of the Freljord . Her people's survival is a constant, desperate battle against the elements, forcing them to raid Noxians , Demacians , and Avarosans alike to survive the harsh winters. Sejuani herself spearheads the most dangerous of these attacks from the saddle of her drüvask boar Bristle , using her True Ice flail to freeze and shatter her enemies.
Sejuani was born of a Freljord political marrige, daughter of the Warmother of the Winter's Claw , Kalkia. But her mother would quickly abandon the role of Warmother, instead pursuing another man she had her eyes on, leaving the tribe in chaos. Instead, Sejuani was raised by her Grandmother Heijan, a cold and uncaring mother figure who's expectations Sejuani could never seem to meet.
The Winter's Claw was left poor from the neglect of Kalkia, but during a visit to the Avarosan , Sejuani saw how well people could have it under a competent warmother. During her visit, Sejuani was taken in by the famous warrior and warmother, Grena, who Sejuani learned had once bested Kalkia in a duel, an act that earned Sejuani's adoration. It was also here she met with Grena's only daughter, Ashe , who became Sejuani's best and only friend. Though things quickly turned sour as Grena started to openly question Heijan's treatment of Sejuani, an act which infuriated Heijan. Heijan cut all ties with the Avarosan and started expanding into the surrounding tribes, which only further weakened the Winter's Claw.
Word reached Kalkia about the failiures of the Winter's Claw, which brought her return where she proclaimed herself Warmother again. Sejuani was enraged by her mother's return and started secretly plotting to overthrow her and become the new warmother.
During an expedition, Sejuani once more met with Ashe, who was starving and alone in Ursine lands after the Frostguard had destroyed the rest of the Avarosan. Sejuani took pitty on her old friend and brought her back to the Winter's Claw, an act which the new warmother and the Frostguard did not take kindly. Sejuani told Ashe about her plan to overthrow Kalkia and asked for Ashe's help, to which she agreed and they both swore and oath, making them Battlesisters. Though this friendship was short lived, for unbeknownst to Ashe; Sejuani's plan involved raiding and destroying the neighbouring tribe, the Ebrataal Tribe, to steal their supplies. Ashe did not approve of this raid and the two former battlesisters were now sworn enemies.
After Ashe's betrayal, Sejuani completed another raid agaisnt a Noxus Warship, hoping it would be enough to rally the tribes in support of Sejuani. During this raid, Sejuani freed Bristle from the ship's slaughterhouse, who would become her most royal steed. This raid proved enough, and Sejuani returned back to the Winter's Claw to challange her mother to a duel, an act which was extremely taboo. Sejuani won decisively, killing her mother in the process.
Sejuani was now the new warmother and did not waste a second, she immediately began raiding and absorbing nearby tribes while also throwing out the Frostguard. Sejuani had taken the Winter's Claw from the brink of collapse and ruin, and had turned it into the most feared and brutal tribe of the Freljord.
The Freljord is currently undergoing the harshest winter in living memory, and the Winter's Claw are starving becouse of it. Sejuani, after returning from a failed hunting mission, found herself at a loss of what to do. Thats when a old man from a village she destroyed requested to speak with her. The old man should have starved weeks ago and Sejuani was intrigued over how he was still alilve, where he mentioned that he had eaten from the Cauldron of Ornn , a legendary artifact with the ability to fully feed anyone who eats from it for, leaving them full for several weeks. But the Cauldron had been stolen by the Volibear and is deep in Ursine territory. Sejuani decided to take a gamble, believing the old mans story, and is now on an expedition into Ursine lands to steal the Cauldron, joined by Olaf , in hopes that it will be able to save her starving people.
Sejuani is a athletic, pale woman with white hair tied up into a bun, bright blue eyes and a large scar vertically across her nose. She wears a mix of furs and metal armor, decorated with blue crystals. Over her head she wears a metal helmet with two blue crystal horns on either side, one of which has been broken off almost entirely. As a weapon she wield the Winter's Wrath .
When she was younger, Sejuani had honey blonde hair.
Sejuani is cold and brutal to her enemies, showing no mercy, but a caring warmother to her tribe. Sejuani believes that community is strength and is the only way to survive the Freljord. She holds the traditions of Freljord as truth and sees anyone who chooses to abandon their nomadic ways as a traitor and an enemy.
Sejuani and Ashe were once childhood friends but were seperated when Ashe's mother offended Sejuani's grandmother, Heijan, over how she was raising Sejuani. Years later, Sejuani found Ashe starving in Ursine lands after the Frostguard annihilated the rest of her tribe. Sejuani and Ashe became battlesisters the next day, but had a falling out during a raid against the Ebrataal Tribe, a raid which Ashe did not approve of.
Sejuani now considers Ashe and her new tribe an enemy to the Winters Claw and a traitor to the Spirit of the Freljord. She views her peacekeeping and agricultural ways as a complete betrayl to Grena, Ashes mother who Sejuani respected, and to her legacy.
Sejuani's loyal Drüvask steed who was freed from a Noxian warship during a raid by the Winters Claw and named by Sejuani after the texture of its hide. Even in the most tense of situations, grooming Bristle's hair always seems to calms Sejuani down.
Udyr has been Sejuani's father figure in her actual father's absence. Even through his strange behavior, Sejuani has a deep rooted respect for him and his struggles, and will not tolerate any disrespect towards him. When Sejuani became warmother, Udyr acted as a trusted advisor for the new warmother.
Sejuani has worked togheter with the Ursine in the past, performing an summoning ritual with the help of Udyr. Sejuani considered the Ursine kin of the Winter's Claw, matching eachothers with their savagery, though she still has a deep rooted fear for the Volibear and his corruption. Recently Sejuani has set off on a expedition into Ursine terratory to steal Ornn's Cauldron , originally stolen by the Ursine, in hope it would feed her people.
Sejuani views the Frostguard in a very negative light, seeing them as nothing more than a slow poison, destroying the Freljord.
Olaf once fought against the Winter's Claw, seeking a good death, which ultimately ended in Sejuani and Olaf battling eachother. It seemed Sejuani and Olaf were equally strong and as the battle neared a standstill, Sejuani offered Olaf to fight for the Winter's Claw where he would surely come across a good death, which he gladly accepted.
The Winter's Wrath
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Sejuani
Mentioned: Ashe , Grena , Kalkia
Short Story
A Death Knot
Sejuani slammed the axe into the tree's trunk.
Mentioned: Kindred
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Silence for the Damned
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Warmother: Issue 3
By Odin Austin Shafer , Nina Vakueva
Weak and starving, Ashe finds herself utterly alone, until an unexpected ally bursts into action.
Starring: Ashe , Kalkia , Sejuani
Mentioned: Grena , Maalcrom , Volibear
Warmother: Issue 4
The series conclusion! Taken in by the Winter's Claw, Ashe may have found hope for her future...
Starring: Ashe , Kalkia , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Grena , Maalcrom
The Berserker
By Unknown Author
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Sejuani
The Frost Archer
Starring: Ashe
Mentioned: Grena , Sejuani , Tryndamere
The Ice Witch
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Sejuani , Volibear , Zoe
The Spirit Walker
By Dana Luery Shaw
Starring: Udyr
Mentioned: Kalkia , Lee Sin , Sejuani
Attack of the Demon Poros
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Enter the Freljord
Starring: Ashe , Lissandra , Sejuani
Fortune Favors the Lucky
Join Firecracker Sejuani, Firecracker Vayne, Lunar Wraith Sylas, and Coin Emperor Tahm Kench in celebrating the Year of the Pig!
Starring: Sejuani , Sylas , Tahm Kench , Vayne
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Seeker's Tale
By Christina Norman
Mentioned: Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Sejuani , Xerath
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Cursed from childhood to be haunted by the supernatural Black Mist, Senna joined a sacred order known as the Sentinels of Light , and fiercely fought back—only to be killed: her soul imprisoned in a lantern by the cruel wraith Thresh . But refusing to lose hope, within the lantern Senna learned to use the Mist, and reemerged to new life, forever changed. Now wielding darkness along with light, Senna seeks to end the Black Mist by turning it against itself—with every blast of her relic weapon, redeeming the souls lost within.
Senna was born on a small island off the coast of Demacia. As a girl, she found a shipwreck, washed ashore, and attempted to explore it. As she did so, a spark of life entered her, and she sensed the Black Mist reaching out to trap her. Senna and her village survived the Harrowing which visited them after, thanks to a Sentinel of Light named Urias. But after the encounter, it seemed that the Mist haunted Senna, following wherever she went. Urias took her under his wing, and started training her to fight back. Senna learned to keep others at arm's length, for anyone she let get near was always hurt when the Black Mist found her.
When Urias was slain by wraiths which had followed her, Senna reluctantly travelled to Demacia, to inform his family. There, she met his son Lucian, who accompanied her to Urias' parting vigil. To Senna's surprise, Lucian managed to fire his father's gun, when more of the undead attacked them. As she trained him to become a Sentinel, she also fell in love.
Lucian, however, became obsessed with "curing" Senna of her curse. That obsession led them to a forgotten crypt where they fought Thresh, the Chain Warden. So close to discovering a cure, Lucian refused to retreat... and Senna took Thresh's hook to save him. Her soul was dragged into Thresh's lantern, and Lucian would spend several years trying to free her.
For months, Senna was unable to come to terms with her own terms. Gradually, she learned how to draw the Black Mist to her, away from others. She freed as many souls as she could, including lost Sentinels from whom she learned that she wasn't cursed with death, but with an abundance of life. She learned that the master of the Mist searched for what she possessed. Sometimes, she was even able to rally the souls within to rebel against Thresh.
As Lucian drove his pistol into Thresh's lantern, Senna escaped, shrouded in death and wielding a cannon made from other Sentinels' relic weapons. She used it to protect Lucian from Thresh's attack and then she sent Thresh flying, immediately afterwards the souls of the lantern were beginning to be absorbed again and she began to drag Senna as well. But Lucian managed to quickly reach her to hug her to avoid the flashlight would absorb it again.
Senna is portrayed as a low, toned and curvaceous black woman, her hair is long black tied with dreadlocks falling to one side, as a child her eyes were hazel brown. But when she exposed to the magical mist her eyes changed color to bright spectral green which shine an intense green when the black mist is near it.
She wears tight-fitting black and grayish light armor that covers her entire body and always wears a white caped hood with gold trim on her head, possibly a sentinel garment since it carries a pin with the faction's crest.
Senna is a brave and quite determined girl, having been constantly running away from the black mist had made her become quite a hardened and distant person, but she started to be more open after she met Lucian.
After being freed and resurrected she acquired an ideology that life needs death as much as death needs life, since then she has dedicated herself to helping the wraith find peace.
Senna met Lucian to deliver the news of his father's death and traveled with him to take part in Urias' parting vigil. The two would eventually fall in love and she would train him to become a Sentinel of Light.
Due to her connection to the Black Mist, Senna was aware of Thresh and his torture before eventually meeting him. He claimed her soul when she tried to save Lucian. Lucian traveled to Bilgewater in pursuit of the Harrowing to locate Thresh. It was then he found out Senna's soul is trapped inside the Chain Warden's lantern . Lucian continued to pursue the Mist to free her and finally succeeded , though he did not expect her to come back to life. After the events of Rise of the Sentinels , Lucian and Senna continue their quest to stop Thresh , now that he is unbound from the Shadow Isles.
After Senna was freed, the couple's main goal was to stop Viego and the Black Mist. Viego fought Lucian and Senna to reclaim the fragment Isolde's soul within her, and partially removed.
Gwen allied herself with Lucian and Senna to aid the Sentinels of Light and oppose Viego. Both her and Gwen contain fragments of Isolde's soul.
Lucian and Senna recruited multiple Sentinels of Light to aid them against Viego, including: Diana , Graves , Irelia , Olaf , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , and Vayne .
Senna disapproves of Akshan's multiple Sentinel code violations.
The Redeemer
By David Slagle
Starring: Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Before Dawn
In the darkest night, a new Sentinel rises.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Shyvana , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Dark Passage
This ends now.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh
Short Story
By Phillip Vargas
Lucian sat on a hilltop beneath the shadow of a large banyan tree and scanned the valley below.
Hunter of Shadows
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
They came at Lucian in a blur of shadow, lunging at him with insubstantial talons and ancient, rusted blades.
Starring: Lucian , Senna
Senna woke with a gasp, her breath pluming in the frigid night.
Mentioned: Isolde , Thresh , Viego
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Shadow's Embrace
Those trapped in darkness need light the most.
Steadfast Heart: Issue 1
By Ian St. Martin
Separated by a millennium, personal tragedy draws Viego and Lucian to islands shrouded in mist and mystery.
Starring: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 2
Viego and Lucian grapple with losing the loves of their lives. Will either find peace, or only ruin?
Steadfast Heart: Issue 3
As Ruination spreads across Runeterra, the Sentinels begin a quest for allies.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
The Voices of the Dead
There's a saying on my island. “ Only through stealing our breath can the wind speak .” You want me to describe the Black Mist that greeted me when I first arrived in the Ionian village, hood raised, relic cannon on my back?
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
By Jared Rosen
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
By Graham McNeill
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
Shadows and Reflections
By Numerous creators
The Purifier Remembers
Starring: Lucian
Mentioned: Senna , Thresh
Steadfast Heart: Issue 5
Senna trains the new Sentinels of Light, as Lucian searches for the wielder of a legendary weapon in Shurima. Meanwhile, the Ruined King gains allies of his own.
Starring: Akshan , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde , Senna
The Chain Warden
Starring: Thresh
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Viego
The Purifier
By Devon Giehl
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Virtual hip-hop group True Damage was born when K/DA's lead rapper Akali sought to bring together the distinct talents of Ekko, Senna, Qiyana, and Yasuo in an ambitious, genre-defying collaboration.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
By True Damage
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
The school year comes and goes, but we’ll share these memories forever.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Rakan
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
Star-Crossed: Shine So Bright
Xayah's search for Star Guardian allies brings her to, of all places, a concert in the park. Is this bubbly popstar with a penchant for glitter the teammates she's been looking for?
Starring: Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Born in Piltover to Zaunite parents, Seraphine can hear the souls of others—the world sings to her, and she sings back. Though these sounds overwhelmed her in her youth, she now draws on them for inspiration, turning the chaos into a symphony. She performs for the sister cities to remind their citizens that they’re not alone, that they’re stronger together, and that, in her eyes, their potential is limitless.
As a young girl, Seraphine developed a passion for music of all kinds. This passion only grew after her Mother's departure, leaving just her and her father in their Piltovian home. As she grew older Seraphine began to develop her magical powers, however her power was so strong that she quickly began to feel overwhelmed and could not hear herself which caused her to begin trying to repress them. Her father, seeing the anguish his daughter was going through, created special hearing aids that would help her stabilize her powers. Seraphine's subtle updates to her stage and "secret" underground trips to Zaun continued throughout her adolescent years, as she grew even more involved with the antics of the war, finding her place in the conflict. Soon it became evident that her father was both aware and proud of her musical antics, seeing his previous dream of sharing his songs with the world in his daughter.
At some point, Seraphine met Acorn, her chipmunk companion (otherwise known as "the Hextechnician"), who began accompanying her on her undisclosed trips underground. Seraphine's father began helping her with her equipment, touching up her guitar after long concerts, while she focused on making her disguise as flashy as possible.
Seraphine slowly began building her reputation throughout Zaun, performing soulful concerts and attracting large groups of its citizens, who were dazed and intrigued by her colorful, powerful songs. She actively began competing with other popular performers underground, including the infamous Zaun Diva, Scratch, both impressed with the other's musical capabilities.
Seraphine is a beautiful pale-skinned young woman with bright blue sapphire eyes and dyed bright pink hair tipped with dark violet that reaches her knees. She wears bright pink lipstick makeup and a light blue star painted on her right cheek.
Her attire is a mix of Piltovan and Zaunite aesthetics with an added visual flair for her theatrical performances. She wears a brown garb over a leather blue shirt, with leather gloves and a matching leather blue skirt with leather boots.
Seraphine is a warm, friendly person and very fond of music, when she was a child she liked to play in her parents' workshop when her magic power grew she became somewhat withdrawn as she heard many voices and could not hear herself, her parents created some special hearing aids for her that helped her control that power.
When she came down to the city of Zaun, she was overcome with many emotions, most of them negative due to Piltover's contempt for Zaun. When she sang for the first time at the border of the two cities, she proudly saw how the people of both cities lived in harmony, so she set herself a goal that through her music she would unite the two neighboring cities.
Seraphine understands the brackerns ' singing language to an extent thanks to her magical hearing, therefore she comprehends the song from the hextech crystal in her platform. She'd probably be the only human able to communicate well with Skarner . However, she does not know that they seek help, and they do enjoy her songs of togetherness.
Caitlyn is an adoring fan of Seraphine's singing performance.
Acorn is Seraphine's pet squirrel whom often acts as her companion. Acorn is believed by Seraphine's fans to be the heart of her idol operation, but in truth he is often disobedient and uncontrollable, to her annoyance.
Being an acoustician, Seraphine's father gave her a hextech device to dampen her acute magical hearing. Proud of Seraphine's idol career, he supports her performances even if she withholds details from him and even allowed her to perform in the Undercity.
Millie is one of Seraphine's biggest fans and the leader of her fan club. While she is too shy to engage in conversation before leaving, Seraphine still enjoys talking with Millie.
Scratch has a friendly rivalry towards Seraphine, with both having enjoyment performing together. Judging by her flustered reaction when Acoustician tells her Seraphine talks about her a lot, Scratch's feelings toward Seraphine may be greater than just simple friendship.
The Starry-Eyed Songstress
By Daniel Couts
Starring: Seraphine
Short Story
Standing Room Only
Zaun and Piltover sing to one another.
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Music Video
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Fight for Final City
When Anima Squad stands together, the Primordians don’t stand a chance.
Starring: Aatrox , Briar , Illaoi , Seraphine , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 1
By Michael Yichao
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Mentioned: Kassadin
Harmonies: Issue 5
Ahri reflects on the long road that led to her forming K/DA: breaking old bonds while establishing new ties, navigating the flood of attention (and expectation) following their initial success, and looking forward to their bright future.
Lunar Feast
Mythmaking is hungry work. Thankfully, you and your elite team of chefs are ready to cook up a storm in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Feast!
Starring: Caitlyn , Camille , Gwen , Seraphine , Zoe
The school year comes and goes, but we’ll share these memories forever.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Rakan
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
Star-Crossed: Shine So Bright
Xayah's search for Star Guardian allies brings her to, of all places, a concert in the park. Is this bubbly popstar with a penchant for glitter the teammates she's been looking for?
Starring: Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A leader of Ionia’s growing criminal underworld, Sett rose to prominence in the wake of the war with Noxus . Though he began as a humble challenger in the fighting pits of Navori , he quickly gained notoriety for his savage strength, and his ability to take seemingly endless amounts of punishment. After fighting his way through the ranks of local combatants, Sett muscled to the top, seizing control of the pits he once fought in.
Settrigh, or Sett as he would be known, was born in Navori , Ionia to a vastayan mother and human father out of wedlock, being a crossbreed of the two races. Due to his hybrid blood and being a bastard child, Sett was an outcast among his peers and his parents were ostracized by their respective races. Those who bullied Sett were intimidated by his father's reputation as a pit fighter in Noxus , but when his father went missing, the bullies spared Sett no mercy. He was constantly beaten up and insulted, being called the "Beast-Boy Bastard". Eventually, Sett had enough of the bullying and began to fight back by punching them into submission. His fights became so notorious that the news reached his mother, who warned him not to go to the pits where his father had fought.
One night, Sett snuck to a local pit while his mother was asleep, and witnessed the battles conducted between numerous fighters as Noxian soldiers in the audience cheered with bloodlust. At the end of the event, Sett asked the staff if they knew his father, and they told him that he had left to fight in pits across other parts of Runeterra to seek greater fortune.
Sett is a tall and muscular man with maroon hair and light tan skin. On his head he has two animal ears, a trait that he shares with his mother, and a large scar across his nose.
Sett is brash and self-assured, knowing exactly what a formidable fighter he is and openly embracing his title, "The Boss." He prefers raw strength and power over technique and strategy. Outwardly, he seems callous, valuing nothing but violence and money, but he does have a soft spot for his mother, whom he cherishes above all.
Sett loves his mother more than anything and dedicates all of his goals to supporting her and making her proud of him, to repay her for raising him in the past. He gives her gifts and money that he earned from his illegal activities while lying to keep them secret from her, though he feels guilty for doing so. Even while away from her, Sett tends to display affection towards his mother in private, and gets angered when someone makes fun of her.
Sett barely knew his father due to him leaving the family when he was still a child, so he was curious to meet him. When he found out that his father had abandoned his family to seek fortune in other parts of the world, he grew to hate his father and aspired to fight against him one day.
Though not confirmed, Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). is implied to be Sett's father, due to having a personal rivalry towards Sett and knowing many details about his past.
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Sett
Short Story
Big Head, Bad News
“Who's watchin' the till?” I ask.
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Choncc Dome
By Ty Sheedlo , Taylor Dinwiddie , Isa Mari De Leon , Elyse Lemoine
Just because the Tournament of Souls is all about 1v1 combat doesn't mean you have to train alone! That's why Choncc has gathered some of the greatest Soul Fighters under one roof—er… dome. So choose a champ and start gettin' swole , Choncc-style!
Starring: Gwen , Lux , Samira , Sett
Music Video
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Wandering Spirits
Maybe this is the year. Sett leaves home once again to find his akana father, the Spirit of Abandonment. Will the spirits along the path lead him away? Or will he finally find the way back to his mother?
Mentioned: Master Yi , Syndra , Tristana
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Crafted long ago as a plaything for a lonely prince, the enchanted marionette Shaco now delights in murder and mayhem. Corrupted by dark magic and the loss of his beloved charge, the once-kind puppet finds pleasure only in the misery of the poor souls he torments. He uses toys and simple tricks to deadly effect, finding the results of his bloody “games” hilarious—and for those who hear a dark chuckle in the dead of night, the Demon Jester may have marked them as his next plaything.
Shaco was once a toy made for a young prince.
At some point, the prince that owned Shaco died, and through dark magic and corruption caused by the death of his owner, Shaco gained sentience. Soon, he started killing people and delighting in their pain. Shaco became a highly sought after fugitive by authorities due to his high number of crimes, and he is now a widely known criminal with no one knowing his origins or the motives behind his crimes.
Shaco dons the outfit of a jester with checkered pants, gold buttons, and spiked shoulderplates. He has pale skin, a disproportionately wide smile, and eyes with no pupils.
Shaco is an insane individual, committing atrocities just because he feels like it. He delights in others' pain and often finds what he does funny. There is no real motive to his crimes, although it is possible that he only does these things to entertain himself.
Shaco has no known relations with any existing or known characters.
The Demon Jester
Starring: Shaco
Music Video
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The Unlikely Companions
Join Zoe and Kog'Maw as they journey through a magical world and confront the dark wizard, Shaco.
Starring: Kog'Maw , Shaco , Zoe
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Among the secretive, Ionian warriors known as the Kinkou , Shen serves as their leader, the Eye of Twilight. He longs to remain free from the confusion of emotion, prejudice, and ego, and walks the unseen path of dispassionate judgment between the spirit realm and the physical world. Tasked with enforcing the equilibrium between them, Shen wields blades of steel and arcane energy against any who would threaten it.
Shen was the son of Master Kusho, the previous Eye of Twilight of the Kinkou, whose role was to maintain the equilibrium between the spirit and physical realms. As Shen grew up, he was a good student when it came to learning the Kinkou teachings such as Pruning the Tree , Coursing the Sun , and Watching the Stars , and he was also able to make decisions dispassionately and without prejudice.
When Zed (then known as Govos) was invited into the Kinkou order, Shen was initially much stronger than the newcomer. But Zed was a fast learner and his abilities soon rivaled Shen, but he lacked Shen’s dispassion. Yet they grew up as brothers.
At one point, Kusho, Shen, and Zed set out to hunt down the Golden Demon, a murderer who had plagued the province of Zhyun. When they captured the Golden Demon, it turned out to be Jihn, a stagehand from a traveling theater. Shen was ready to accept his father’s wish to imprison the murderer while Zed wanted to get revenge by killing him instead.
Shen is a tall, muscular man with tan skin and brown hair. His hair is typically tied back with the sides shaved. His eyes glow white-blue whenever he utilizes his magic.
His signature armor is a full-body ninja regalia in pristine condition. It is dark blue with a silver trim, covering all but his eyes and upper arms. Though he carries a traditional blade on his back, he can also summon a spirit blade composed of ethereal violet magic.
Known for his dispassion, Shen is calm and even-keeled, possessing the aura of esoteric wisdom that befits his station. Extreme events, however, can cause him to become aggressive and emotional, especially in the presence of his despised rivals such as Zed or Jhin . Still, Shen fights honorably, striving to protect the innocent and preserve the balance of Ionia .
Shen leads the surviving Kinkou which has a great conflict of interest with Zed's Order of Shadow and its defiance of Ionia's sacred balance. Kennen remains by his side while Akali went rogue. She and Shen parted on neutral terms. Neither hates the other but both disapprove of the other's methods. [ 1 ] After Akali and Zed made their choice, Shen is starting to doubt whether the old way still works.
Shen and Zed are childhood friends and used to consider each other as brother before Zed "murdered" Master Kusho. Master Kusho, Shen, and Zed were responsible for capturing and imprisoning Khada Jhin , but were traumatised by the Golden Demon's actions in the process. Later on, when Jhin was set free again, Zed sought out Shen in order to inform him about Jhin's reappearance and to team up with him to stop him. Shen, despite still wishing to avenge his father's death, accepted the truce for the greater good. The duo later saved a captured Akali from Jhin and caught him. Shen is torn between killing Zed to avenge his father Kusho (the Kinkou's previous master and wielder of the spirit blade ) and enforcing equilibrium with the spirit realm (his duty takes priority, but he won't hesitate if given the chance). Zed could have revealed the truth about Kusho to Shen but then decided it was better for Shen to be disillusioned with Zed than to be disillusioned with his own father. That's probably not fair, and maybe Shen has a right to know. But Zed is flawed... and blinded by his need to feel he's worthy and honorable. [ 2 ]
Shen was arranged to be married to Yevnai but the engagement was called off after Zed "killed" Master Kusho. Zed and Yevnai were at one point secretly in a relationship even when forbidden by Master Kusho, unknown to Shen though he possibly suspected it. [ 3 ]
The Eye of Twilight
By Michael Luo
Starring: Shen
Mentioned: Akali , Jhin , Kusho , Zed
Short Story
The Bow, and the Kunai
The air of southern Shon-Xan was rife with raw magic.
Starring: Akali , Kennen , Shen
Mentioned: Kusho , Zed
Akali learns an important lesson from her former Kinkou master, Shen, when they encounter a young woodcutter upsetting the balance of Ionia.
Starring: Akali , Shen
The Man with the Steel Cane
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Shen , Zed
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
True Neutral
By John O'Bryan
It was no tempest. It was a spirit' said the fisherman, still rattled by the shipwreck he'd barely survived two nights ago. The man told of his fishing vessel being sunk by a creature, large as a house and quick as the wind.
Zed: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed is lured back to a village where he and Shen once encountered a great evil, a brutal killer from their past resurfaces: the magically gifted psychopath Khada Jhin!
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Rhaast
Zed: Issue 2
Zed is under attack from all sides! He and his band of assassins are ambushed by the twisted Khada Jhin! In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 3
In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 4
Khada Jhin's master plan comes together in a most explosive and deadly manner! But even if Zed and Shen survive, they might just kill one another! Only one will be left standing by the end of this issue!
Zed: Issue 5
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Zed: Issue 6
It's all led to this: Zed and Shen, united in a final battle with the psychopathic murderer Khada Jhin! And the life of the captive Akali hangs in the balance! Then--Shen and Zed's greatest enemy will stand revealed…and you'll never guess who it is! Shocking secrets about the past AND the present will be unveiled…and whoever survives will be left to pick up the pieces!
Between Light and Shadows
Kennen had not slowed since setting off from the Great Temple of Koeshin.
Starring: Kennen
Mentioned: Akali , Shen
Leaving Weh'le
By Michael McCarthy
“Ah— Hey! Bo'lii!” I cry out. “Cut me a little deep, don't you think?”
Starring: Akali
Mentioned: Shen
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Heart of the Tempest
By Ian St. Martin
Mentioned: Akali , Kusho , Shen , Zed
The Master of Shadows
By Michael Luo , Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Zed
Mentioned: Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen
The Rogue Assassin
Mentioned: Kennen , Kusho , Shen , Zed
The Virtuoso
By Odin Austin Shafer , Ian St. Martin
Starring: Jhin
Mentioned: Kusho , Shen , Zed
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Shyvana is a creature with pure elemental magic blazing in her heart. Though she most often appears humanoid, she can take her true form when necessary—that of a fearsome dragon, incinerating her foes with fiery breath. Having saved the life of the crown prince Jarvan IV , Shyvana now serves uneasily in his royal guard, struggling to find acceptance among the suspicious people of Demacia .
Shyvana was born from Yvva, a powerful fire dragon. Prior to hatching, her egg was captured by a mage, and Yvva could not get it back. The mage kept the egg, and it hatched, but instead of being born as a baby dragon, Shyvana was born as a human with unnatural, pale blue skin. The mage grew fond of the little girl and decided to raise her as his daughter in secret. As Shyvana grew, she discovered more and more of her latent abilities. The mage did everything he could to help her control her budding draconic magic and, by her adolescence, she was able to transform between her human form and that of a powerful dragon at will.
Yvva, who had a psychic connection with her daughter, managed to track her down. In her rage, she burned down the entire town Shyvana called home. Shyvana hid amidst some ruins, watching helplessly as her mother rained fire from above. The mage himself did not escape the flames. Shyvana watched on as he succumbed to the inferno and, when her mother was finished, she came out of hiding, retrieved his charred corpse, and gave him a simple burial. She mourned her once-captor turned adoptive father—slain by her very mother—alone.
Fearful that her mother might return, Shyvana took to living on the move, never staying in the same place twice. One day, wandering through a forest, she picked up the aroma of fresh, human blood among the scent of trees and fauna. Following her nose, she found a wounded warrior on the verge of death. Transforming into her draconic form, she took the unconscious man to Wrenwall castle, saving his life. There, she found that this man was none other than Prince Jarvan IV, sole son and heir apparent to the throne of Demacia. The soldiers of the castle looked upon Shyvana with disgust because of her magical nature, but for her valor in saving the prince, she was treated with respect. She would later reflect that her time spent there was the most serene time of her life.
However, serenity never lasts and, in her peace, Shyvana had forgotten her pursuer. Yvva found her there, among the Demacians, and Shyvana knew what would surely follow. The soldiers quickly sent the civilians inside the fortress to protect them and, knowing her mother's quarry was her alone, Shyvana prepared to flee. Prince Jarvan intercepted Shyvana's attempted escape, forcing the half-dragon to tearfully tell him the truth: This dragon was none other than her mother, and so long as Shyvana herself was here, both him and his people were in danger. Jarvan, never having forgotten the kindness Shyvana had showed him by saving his life, swore then that he would never abandon her, nor allow her to face her mother alone. Moved, Shyvana accepted the offer of aid, and prepared to face Yvva with the might of Demacia by her side.
As Yvva appeared on the horizon, the castle archers began distracting her with arrows. She sprayed a burst of fire on the castle in retaliation, heavily wounding the archer line. Just as she let her guard down, Shyvana sprinted out of the palace and leapt into the air, transformed into dragon in mid-flight. Shyvana and Yvva fought a fierce and gruesome battle. Shyvana had never used her abilities in such a way before. Remembering the people she was protecting, and those who were hurt protecting her, Shyvana grabbed her mother's head, and broke Yvva's neck on a castle wall, closing the battle.
Following the confrontation with her mother, Prince Jarvan IV honored Shyvana's bravery, and asked whether she would journey with him to Demacia proper. Shyvana wholeheartedly accepted. Though Shyvana was afraid that she would be distrusted due to her nature, these proved to be unfounded: The people of Demacia welcomed her as a hero, and Prince Jarvan offered her a place within the elite group known as the Dragonguard, so she might protect this land from other dangerous dragons like Yvva.
During the rebellion of the magicians, Jarvan confronted Sylas . The two had an arduous battle, and Sylas nearly bested the prince, but, just before Sylas could finish the job, Shyvana descended from the sky and disrupted the battle, prepared to honor her role as Dragonguard.
Sylas faced the two of them, and a fierce fight ensued. A furious Shyvana implored Jarvan to withdraw, and, trusting her judgment, he listened. With the prince out of the way, Shyvana was free to transform into her draconic form, ready to crush Sylas once and for all. But she underestimated the Kingslayer, and he bested her. Wounded, she reverted to her human form and plummeted to the ground. Sylas moved in for the kill, and Prince Jarvan intercepted him, risking his own life to protect not merely a guard, not merely a woman, but a being of pure magic. Quick on the uptake, Sylas noted their connection, and accused the crown prince of hypocrisy. While Sylas rotted in prison for his magic, the prince had fallen in love with a being composed of it. Seeing how injured his opponents were, Sylas once again moved in to kill Jarvan, but Shyvana, with what forces she still possessed, conjured a circle of fire around the two of them, cutting Sylas off. In the end, Sylas had no choice but to flee, but not before swearing that he would kill the prince and his beloved dragon. Slipping into unconsciousness, Shyvana collapsed into Jarvan's arms.
Following the battle, Shyvana had no choice but to leave Demacia due to the countless rules against wizards and magical beings. As he once had, Jarvan tried to convince her not to leave, and she suggested that they leave together, and start a new life. He told her what she already knew: He couldn't do it. Before she left, she implored him not to allow his father's ruthlessness to pass on to the kingdom Jarvan would rule, but Jarvan told her that it was too late for that. With a sad smile, she replied that no transformation lasts forever, and wished him good luck. She then jumped from the castle tower and, assuming draconic form, flew away from the castle, though, perhaps, never too far.
After Jarvan disbanded the Mageseekers , Shyvana is seen returning from the horizon, finally free to come home.
Shyvana is portrayed as a slender woman with pale blue skin, black hair tied in a ponytail with two strands braided over her shoulders, and blue eyes with slit pupils which glow fiery red when she's enraged. She wears red and gold colored armor which covers her head, arms and legs. In her monstrous form, she turns into a medium-sized red and gray dragon.
Despite being half dragon, Shyvana possesses human emotions because she was raised among them. She is loyal, kind, and helpful to all who show her affection, but she is not without a rather fiery temperament, when provoked.
Jarvan IV was saved by Shyvana after escaping from the Noxian capture and later helped her in slaying her mother, Yvva, and, out of gratitude, she earned a spot in the Demacian Elite Guard. In Lux comics , it was revealed Jarvan loved someone that wasn't so different from the mages. That person may be Shyvana herself.
She would later join the Dragonguard , a special branch of the Demacian military tasked in defending Demacian lands from dragons. While some are close to Shyvana and trust her, others are skeptical due to her nature.
In Rise of the Sentinels , Shyvana was imprisoned by the Mageseekers . Becoming disillusioned with Demacia's magical prejudices, Shyvana gives in to the ruination after Viego's awakening, destroying a Mageseeker compound and terrorizing the Demacian army.
Vayne claims that Shyvana is a monster, so she distrusted her even before she was possessed. After Lucian and Senna arrived and helped Vayne knock Ruined Shyvana out, Vayne was prepared to kill her until Senna intervened. Senna determined that Shyvana's true self is still within her. After Viego was defeated, Shyvana was freed along with the other champions from his control and returned to her normal self.
The Half-Dragon
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Shyvana
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV
Before Dawn
In the darkest night, a new Sentinel rises.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Shyvana , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Winged Beast
The duty of a Demacian. The savagery of a dragon. Her enemies don't stand a chance.
Short Story • 28 Minute Read
For Demacia
By Graham McNeill
In a town plagued by nightmares, can even the best and bravest of Demacia bring back the light?
Starring: Garen , Lux , Nocturne
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Morgana , Shyvana
Lux: Issue 4
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
The Exemplar of Demacia
Starring: Jarvan IV
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Shyvana , Sion , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Monuments of Power
Seek what makes you strong.
Starring: Shyvana , Soraka , Tahm Kench
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Singed is a Zaunite scientist of unmatched intellect, who has devoted his life to pushing the boundaries of knowledge—with no price, even his own sanity, too high to pay. Is there a method to his madness? His concoctions rarely fail, but it appears to many that Singed has lost all sense of humanity, leaving a toxic trail of misery and terror in his wake.
Singed began his life as an ordinary man in Piltover . As a child, he showed advanced intellect and curiosity being fascinated with the natural world. Eventually, he would be accepted into the University of Piltover, where he would conduct groundbreaking research. However, he was not recognized for this research, as he was a vocal critic of hextech, which his colleagues ridiculed him for. Eventually, he would lose all funding for his research and move to Zaun . There, he would make money from his inventions, which covered a wide range of uses. He would also begin to chemically augment himself, allowing him to work for days without needing to rest. His ingenuity gained him recognition in Zaun and soon attracted the attention of the Noxian empire.
After years of doing smaller projects for the empire, Singed was approached by a Noxian military commander Emystan, who contracted the alchemist to help her break the stalemate of the war in Ionia . She gave him an offer that would bring him considerably more funds for his continued research.
Putting aside all other concerns, Singed poured all of his intellect, knowledge, and experience into the synthesis of this new weapon. The result of his efforts was an alchemical fire that was unstable and volatile. When it was finally unleashed in Ionia against the enemies of Noxus, it burned hot enough to fracture stone, and tainted the earth around it with dense, metallic poisons so completely that almost nothing could grow there. Even Emystan’s own allies were appalled, though not quite enough to name her and Singed as war criminals.
With the funds procured from this venture, Singed was able to considerably expand his Zaunite laboratory with new equipment.
Singed kidnapped a gangster who he named Subject #1088, whom wanted to reform his life after retiring from crime. For years, he subjected him to many torturous experiments by augmenting chemtech upgrades on him while he was fully conscious, since Singed believed that pain was the catalyst to immortality. After implementing the chemtech pump onto Warwick's body, he turned hostile and started to attack Singed, but after the two struggled for a while Warwick succumbed to his injuries. Disappointed in his experiment's failure, Singed disposed of Warwick's body, but the latter came back to life as a chimera and escaped during the night. Singed woke up from the noise and found the damage inflicted upon his lab. He decided to find a new lab, but also start investigating Warwick so he could start the next phase of his experiment.
Singed kidnapped two men named Hadri Spillwether and Palo, codenaming them Thinker and Breaker respectively, trapping them in a glass cage and performing inhumane surgeries on them (implanting a parasite into Hadri's chest and augmenting Palo with pneumatochem-muscular enhancements) while recording his experiment using a recording device. He interrogated Hadri on all of the details of his life, and when he was unable to answer or refused, Singed blasted him with cold sump water. When Hadri tried to empathize with Singed by telling him about his (fictional) son Locke, Singed told Hadri that he had no family and he begged him for a cure for his illness, but would be reduced to nothing as he wouldn't comply. He then told Hadri to latch onto Palo to join the parasite. When Hadri stood up to his captor, he deemed him uncooperative and turned the water valve to full strength before leaving, intending to flood the lab to drown the two subjects.
Hadri and Palo cooperated to escape the lab, but the parasite attached to Palo as Singed had intended, causing the two subjects to have their minds linked. After being confronted by followers of Viktor, they came face to face with Singed, who tested Hadri to see if his mind was still intact, threatening to shoot them with a tranquilizer gun if they didn't comply. When he was unable to get the results he wanted, Singed believed that they were a failure and provoked them into chasing him, gradually weakening them with his poisonous gas. As they fell down on the verge of death, Hadri recognized the professor as Singed back when he was in Piltover, and Singed told Hadri that he was Thinker Four and he'd fared much better than Thinker Two (implying he'd done similar experiments before). He then walked away, leaving Hadri and Palo to die in despair.
Not much is known about how Singed looked like when he was young. However, throughout most of his life, he was a tall, lanky, and pale man. He has a permanent facial scar on one side of his face (some depictions show his right side being damaged, while others his left side). Eventually Singed would start wearing additional bandages to hide the facial scars inflicted by Warwick .
Singed is a cruel, heartless scientist with no regard for his victims, performing depraved experiments on his test subjects for the belief that they would become superior beings, while subjecting them to physical and mental suffering with no remorse and seeing them as nothing more than lesser creatures or objects to experiment on. He is a perfectionist who doesn't like when people fail his high standards, and feels nothing but disappointment when they die.
As Singed forced Warwick into being a test subject for one of his unethical experiments, it can be assumed that Warwick hates him more than anything. Given that Singed also showed no remorse towards Warwick as he subjected the latter to many brutal procedures, it can also be assumed that he sees Warwick not as a living organism, but as an object to be researched and studied.
Singed helped Noxus invade Ionia by giving them a toxic substance that Noxus used to kill their enemies and raze their land. This would affect many people, including Riven , who was scarred from the sight of the substance being used on others, Irelia and Karma , whose forces were killed by the substance, and Master Yi , whose village was razed by the substance.
Singed saw Hadri and Palo as nothing more than test subjects, showing no empathy toward them as he cruelly experimented on them and disciplining them by blasting them with cold sump water for failing his standards. When Hadri tried to empathize with him, Singed mocked him and told Hadri that he owed him after begging him to cure his illness, but promised that he wouldn't die. Once Hadri stood up to him, Singed began to flood the lab to drown them so he could dispose of them and start over. When they escaped, Singed asked them if they knew him and when he was unable to answer, Singed believed them to be mindless vegetables and deemed the experiment a failure. Once Hadri finally remembered who Singed was, he told him that he'd done better as a Thinker test subject than his second Thinker before he and Palo died.
The Mad Chemist
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Singed
Mentioned: Warwick
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Engineering the Nightmare
By Phillip Vargas
Procured a cutthroat hiding among the populace and feigning civility. Only a disciplined eye could recognize the beast within, yearning for release. How could I refuse? For what is my work if not an attempt to reveal life's hidden truths through science? It required two doses to subdue him. Impressively resilient. A necessary quality to survive the grand catalyst of pain and provoke the transmutation. The metamorphosis will reshape the man into a chimeric predator, and all of Zaun will be its hunting grounds.
Short Story
By Amanda Jeffrey
I’m going to die.
Blood of Noxus
By Graham McNeill
In all Runeterra, there is no army more feared than that of the Noxian empire. In all Noxus, there is no soldier more respected than Darius. Of all the commandments that have kept Noxus strong, one rule stands above all others: Loyalty is everything.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Invetia Varn , Quilletta Varn , Tamara
Mentioned: Singed
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Eye of the Beast
SUBJECT 1088. BEGIN REPORT.
Starring: Warwick
Sisterhood of War Part 2: The Unquiet Dead
She cannot breathe.
Starring: Arrel , Erath , Marit , Teneff , Tifalenji
Mentioned: Riven , Singed
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Riven
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , LeBlanc , Singed
The Uncaged Wrath of Zaun
By David Slagle
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
The Shadows Beckon
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Swift and lethal, Evelynn is one of the most deadly - and expensive - assassins in all of Runeterra. Able to merge with shadows at will, she patiently stalks her prey, waiting for the right moment to strike. While Evelynn is clearly not entirely human, and her heritage remains unclear, it is believed that she hails from the Shadow Isles - though her link with that tortured realm remains shrouded in mystery.
Starring: Evelynn
Mentioned: Camille , Singed
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A brutal warlord from a bygone era, Sion was revered in Noxus for choking the life out of a Demacian king with his bare hands—but, denied the peace of death, he was resurrected to serve his empire once more. His indiscriminate slaughter claims all who stand in his way, regardless of allegiance, proving he has retained little of his former humanity. With crude armor bolted onto his rotten flesh, Sion continues to charge into battle with reckless abandon, struggling to remember his true self between the swings of his mighty axe.
In life, Sion was the last of a proud warrior culture that defined early Noxus . He made his name as the Hand of Noxus , an unstoppable general in the campaign for the empire's outward expansion. Finally, he met his end in a battle with King Jarvan I of Demacia , with both men killing each other. He was then immortalized by the Noxians with his body entombed in a huge statue in his likeliness.
Half a century later, Sion was reanimated by hemomancers of the Black Rose . Dark magic empowered his body but clouded his mind, turning him into an unstoppable killing machine, feared all the more by the enemies of Noxus. Now, he remains locked away in the tomb beneath a statue of himself, always ready to be deployed when the Grand General sees fit.
Sion was already a brutishly large man in life, but in undeath, he is a towering behemoth. His scarred, gray, hairless skin is held together with dark metal plates. He has glowing red eyes and a similarly glowing furnace of dark magic in his gut. The crown of Jarvan I serves as his jaw, and a dagger protruding from the back of his skull resembles a pony tail, with a long, red ribbon flowing from the hilt.
Sion wears heavy metal plates and tattered leather armor. He has one pauldron and one gauntlet on his left side, an enormous metal belt with brown pants leading to a metal boot on the right foot and a metal peg leg on the left.
He carries a massive two-handed ax, dull and worn.
In life, Sion was a feared warrior, known not for strategic wit but for ruthless effectiveness. Always pressing forward, he swore oaths to his ancestors to never take a backwards step in battle.
After his reanimation, Sion became a creature of pure rage and bloodlust. His mind broken, he remembers only fragments of his past life. Now, all knows is that he is a vessel of death and destruction, showing no discernment between friend and foe.
In life, Sion was the Hand of Noxus . Sion was resurrected at the order of the Black Rose , likely by LeBlanc herself with Vladimir being one of the main people in charge.
Once Swain overthrew Boram Darkwill (thus becoming the new Grand General) he learned of Sion's existence and plotted to use him as his own weapon. Sion was used in the second Noxian invasion of Ionia where he fought the resistance led by Irelia who was assisted by Karma , Akali , Kennen and Yasuo .
The Undead Juggernaut
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Sion
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Swain
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
In The Mind of Madness
By Randy Begel
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
The Exemplar of Demacia
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Jarvan IV
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Shyvana , Sion , Tianna , Xin Zhao
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Starring: LeBlanc , Sion , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Elise , Jarvan IV , Vladimir
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Sivir is a renowned fortune hunter and mercenary captain who plies her trade in the deserts of Shurima . Armed with her legendary jewelled crossblade , she has fought and won countless battles for those who can afford her exorbitant price. Known for her fearless resolve and endless ambition, she prides herself on recovering buried treasures from the perilous tombs of Shurima - for a generous bounty. With ancient forces stirring the very bones of Shurima, Sivir finds herself torn between conflicting destinies.
Sivir was born in Shurima, her childhood was very hard as her parents were killed by looters and she alone had to grow up on the streets along with other orphans stealing food from local markets and delving into ancient ruins in search of trinkets that she could sell.
Sivir sometimes had to fight with the other children to keep some of the loot they found, but she rarely kept anything, after her so-called friend Mira tricked her and stole it, Sivir swore to herself that no one would ever come back to betray.
When she reached adolescence she became the guide and lackey of a group of mercenaries led by the well-known daughter Siharo, although her skill with weapons led her to become Siharo's sergeant, Sivir realized that she was left with most of the treasures even if they were obtained thanks to Sivir. Sivir gathered her fellow mercenaries and rebelled against Siharo, the two duelled and Sivir emerged victorious, but was unable to kill her mentor and abandoned her in the desert wishing her luck to rebuild her life.
Sivir and her mercenaries earned a great reputation which was known throughout the desert, they accepted any task offered to them if the pay was very good, one day she and her companions were given the task of recovering an ancient relic known as the Chalikar .Accompanied by the buyer's personal guards, Sivir searched for the relic for several months and finally found it, the weapon left Sivir amazed as it was quite magnificent, the captain of the guard told Sivir to give it to her but she refused and with just one movement of the weapon decapitated him and all his followers and Sivir fled with the weapon in hand. Sivir's reputation grew further and she became known beyond the desert, when the Noxian expeditions heard about her, it was Cassiopeia Du Coteau who was most interested in her exploits and proceeded to hire Sivir to sack the ancient city of Shurima.
Little by little they entered the ruins of the city, several of Sivir's companions died due to the constant traps they found, but Cassiopeia refused to back down, when they reached the great door of a tomb surrounded by ancient statues of guardians and reliefs of the warriors of the past ,Sivir was quite captivated by those beast-headed beings and their great fights against monsters of the underworld, taking advantage of Sivir's distraction. Cassiopeia stabbed Sivir with a dagger in the back causing her to scream in pain and collapse soaking the sand her blood, Cassiopeia took the Chalikar from her dying body to open the door to the tomb, unaware that it unleashed a powerful curse. Near death, Sivir watched as the statue of a giant serpent came to life and proceeded to spray Cassiopeia with his poison.
Sivir took her Chalikar and tried to flee from the tomb, but near the exit life began to leave her body and she fell to the ground, the last thing she heard before she fainted was the roars of maddened Gods being released from the tomb .But surprisingly that was not the end because she opened her eyes and realized that her wounds had healed and in front of her was her savior. Azir the last emperor of Shurima, he explained to her that Sivir is his descendant and that through his veins runs royal blood. He explained to her that the blood he had spilled had awakened her spirit and he took her to the pool of life where he healed her wounds. Azir later began to complete his ascension and Sivir watched in amazement as he became an Ascended and the ancient Shurima began to rise from the sands. Sivir quickly ran out of the pool and saw how the ancient Shurima returned from the grave. Now Sivir, along with Nasus and Taliyah , is preparing to decide whether to embrace the fate they gave her or forge her own on the sands of Shurima.
Sivir is possessed of a mercenary's code of values and isn't motivated by anything as much as material wealth. Causes, nobility and matter of honor pale in her eyes when compared to the alluring clinking of coin. Shaped by a harsh childhood spent trying to surviving and make a living in the Shuriman Sai while always on the lookout for betrayal, Sivir is inherently a distrustful person. This is evidenced by her being slow to let down her guard around Taliyah even though the Stoneweaver had been the one to rescue Sivir and stitch her wounds after finding her bleeding outside Vekaura. Sivir's pragmatic self-interest plays a large part in why she doesn't embrace her role as Azir's heir, preferring her modest life as a mercenary/fortune hunter while avoiding the destiny seemingly placed before her.
Sivir is a beautiful girl of average height, curvaceous and somewhat toned, she has tan skin, long jet black hair that falls down her back, and shiny blue eyes.
She wears somewhat revealing black and grey clothing, with black boots, gloves, a bra, and a black skirt with gold accents, a white scarf around her neck, and a gold tiara with a turquoise jewel in the center.
Expert Combatant : Sivir is a fairly skilled and highly skilled fighter.
Chalikar : Sivir possesses a giant chalikar as a weapon. This weapon acts as a boomerang so that she can throw it and immediately return to it afterward.
Cassiopeia hired Sivir to raid ancient Shuriman ruins and later stabbed her to steal her blade in order to open a tomb.
Sivir wants nothing to do with Azir , for even though he saved her life she doesn't want to owe him anything, let alone assume the responsibility of uniting Shurima which, in her eyes, will always be a lawless, ruthless land. Sivir seems to have descended from Azir's illegitimate child whom he was never aware of. Xerath will hunt her down no matter what, for in her he sees the shackles that still bind him as well as the decadent society that brought him nothing but misery.
Taliyah promised the Great Weaver to nurse Sivir back to health and to protect her when she was wounded after leaving the newly risen Shurima city.
Nasus sees in Sivir the hope of a reborn Shurima and the key to defeating Xerath .
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
By Graham McNeill
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Rise of the Ascended
Discover the tale of Ancient Shurima, where the fates of Azir and Siver intertwine.
Starring: Azir , Sivir
The Lone Warrior
No one commands the desert like this battle mistress.
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
Sivir's throat felt like it was coated in a layer of broken glass. The cracked flesh of her lips burned. Her eyes refused to focus. I've given them more than enough time to move on.
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Azir walked the gold-paved Emperor's Way. The immense statues of Shurima's earliest rulers – his ancestors – watched his progress.
Starring: Azir
Mentioned: Sivir , Xerath
Echoes in the Stone
By Ariel Lawrence
Taliyah was outrunning the sandstorm when she first noticed the water. In the beginning, it was faint, just a cool dampness she felt as she lifted the stones from deep beneath the sand. As she drew closer to old Shurima, wet streaks dripped from each new stone as if they were weeping. Taliyah knew the rock had stories to tell as she sped across the desert, but she didn't have time to listen, to hear if they were tears of joy or sadness.
Starring: Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Sivir
The Butcher of the Sands
Starring: Renekton
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Sivir , Xerath
The Emperor of the Sands
Mentioned: Nasus , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
The Magus Ascendant
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
The Serpent's Embrace
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Cassiopeia
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Sivir , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Short Story
Water and Shade To You
For the first time Khari could remember, flowers grew on the street leading from the town square to the Cut.
Mentioned: Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Trial of the Masks
By Jared Rosen
Imagine the world as a mirror
Mentioned: Aatrox , Pyke
Academy Adventures: Series 3
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The ancient, colossal brackern Skarner is revered in Ixtal as one of the founding members of its ruling caste, the Yun Tal. Devoted to keeping his nation safe from the rest of the world, Skarner dwells in a chamber beneath Ixaocan where he can hear the vibrations of the earth and detect potential threats. As more members of the Yun Tal begin questioning Ixtal's self-isolation, Skarner grows increasingly paranoid and will do anything to keep Ixtal and its people safe—no matter the cost.
Skarner was born to the legendary brackern broodmother Nixalẹ alongside many other bracklings in his brood. While most left to form their own clans, Skarner remained alongside Nixalẹ to study her power and wisdom out of curiosity, giving him the opportunity to hone his elemental geomancy and learn how to feel underground vibrations to detect movement across the earth.
When he got older, he felt a dramatic shift as humans came to the land to found their settlement now known as Ixtal . While most of Clan Ọ̀pal-hin distrusted the humans, Skarner was curious to learn more about them. He silently observed their civilization, noticing how they made the most of their lives creating and innovating before passing away. Believing the subjects of his curiosity to be fragile, he intervened to save them from a rockslide that would destroy their settlement, earning him their worship towards him as their protector. Believing his protection was the only way they could survive, Skarner made it his duty to guard the Ixtali while also shaping the earth to create new plots for them to expand their civilization, and in return they shared their culture. He was one of the founding members of the Yun Tal , a ruling caste dedicated to leading the Ixtali to a brighter future.
As the protector of Ixtal, Skarner listened to the earth's vibrations for any threats to the nation, the most concerning being the encroaching Shuriman Empire. Eventually, the forces of Shurima would arrive at Ixtal and offered them an opportunity to form an alliance. The Yun Tal accepted, despite Skarner's protest, due his distrust of their lust for power. After Shurima collapsed as the result of the Icathian rebellion, Ixtal had regained its independence, but Skarner was left distrustful towards the world outside Ixtal. His fears worsened after witnessing the destruction caused by the Rune Wars , eventually convincing the Yun Tal to isolate Ixtal from the rest of the world. Left bitter towards the Yun Tal's failure to protect Ixtal, he decided that he would be Ixtal's sole protector, creating an underground chamber beneath Ixaocan to amplify the vibrational threads around the continent so he could always sense any potential threats. Eventually, he decided to stay in his chamber permanently, but as newer generations of Ixtali started to question their civilization's self-isolation, Skarner's paranoia began to grow. Believing that ending their isolation would lead to disastrous consequences for Ixtal, Skarner swore to protect Ixtal no matter the cost, even if it meant their destruction.
Skarner is a kaiju-sized scorpion-like creature with six legs, a pair of thick grasping pincers, and three long tails ending in stingers. He has a teal and white carapace decorated with orange, teal, and white paint. His head is vaguely human-like despite its chitinous exterior, having two glowing teal eyes and a hinged jaw and mouth, but with two insect-like mandibles. He wears (relatively) small decorative ornaments on his upper arms and central tail.
Skarner is a commanding and imposing presence, speaking with the authority of an ancient, powerful being. Still, he carries an aura of formality, wisdom, and solemnity. He is single-mindedly protective of Ixtal , seeing himself as its steward and most important protector. Though he cares greatly for mortals, he is keenly aware of their flaws and weaknesses, seemingly having little faith in them. Thus, he is extremely stubborn, prioritizing his own judgment above that of all others. He is absolutely certain that Ixtal should remain in isolation and is growing increasingly paranoid as more Ixtali begin to question their nation's solitude.
Skarner views Milio negatively and sees him as an extension of his great aunt, who rebelled against the Yun Tal. [ 2 ]
Skarner is aware of Qiyana's plot to seize power. Presumably, he disapproves.
The Primordial Sovereign
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Skarner
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
By Rayla Heide
The softskins broke our slumber of a thousand spins.
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Sona is a virtuoso of the stringed etwahl , speaking only through her graceful chords and vibrant arias. Her genteel manner has endeared her to the Demacian nobility, though some speculate her arresting melodies actually emanate magic—a dangerous prospect in the kingdom. Silent to outsiders but understood easily enough by close companions, Sona plucks her harmonies not only to soothe injured allies, but also to strike down unsuspecting enemies.
Sona was left in a monastery as an infant in the Ionia province of Galrin . No other clue about her origins is known besides a mysterious magical instrument that was delivered with her. She has a close relationship with the other children in the monastery as they would seek comfort with her. She was moved to Demacia with other children when Noxus started its invasion of Ionia , around 985 AN. She was eventually adopted into the Buvelle noble house, who were art patrons of the nation, because they took interest in her musical abilities.
Some years later, around the year 990 AN, her adoptive father was killed in the Battle of the Gates of Mourning . The family mourned, so Lestara took Sona back to Ionia , so she could understand more of herself.
At some point, Sona would aid Ryze against the Navori Brotherhood so he could gather a World Rune.
When Sona perceived the animosity and disunion that struck the First Lands, she decided that there was no place for her in Ionia anymore and she went back to Demacia with her mother.
Sona is a slender, pale-skinned woman with long blue hair and yellow at the ends. Her robes is a long, elegant gown with a distinctive palette of blue, dark blue, turquoise and gold. The most characteristic ornaments of her attire are the golden diadem on her head between her hair. She also has an Etwahl that floats along with her.
Sona is a very graceful and elegant young woman. She best (and primarily) expresses herself through her music (although she also as the ability to express her thoughts and communicate with others via telepathic speech), which is best known for it's melodious nature. This highly reflects her gracious and refined personality. Sona is a very caring and gentle woman who helps out others in need and comforts those in need.
Sona is the adoptive daughter of Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lady Lestara from House Buvelle, and adopted sister of Kahina. She is very close to all of them, especially her mother Lestara. They also know that she is magical and protect her from the Mageseekers .
Sona met Irelia at some point when she came back to Ionia
She met Taric before his exile.
During the events of Call of Power , Sona traveled with Ryze to the Hirana Monastery after the Noxian invasion and fought the Navori Brotherhood who ambushed them.
Maven of the Strings
By Laurie Goulding
Starring: Sona
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan III
Short Story
Fragile Legacies
By Dana Luery Shaw
I was young and unafraid, heart aflame with the sort of righteousness that cast out all shadows of doubt, on the day I first met Barrett Buvelle.
Starring: Eldred , Jarvan III , Quinn , Sona , Tianna
Mentioned: Barrett Buvelle , Jarvan IV , Kayle , Morgana
One Last Show
By Katie Chironis
That old, familiar smell hit her first.
Call of Power
Ryze scours Runeterra for fragments of a forgotten past, each step bringing him closer to incredible power—and terrible ruin.
Starring: Ryze
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Nasus , Sona , Trundle
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Curator's Gambit
By Matthew Dunn
Look, I should be clear—I didn't want anything to do with “the dread lord,” or whoever Januk was talking about. I was just trying to sell this stupid little vial to the guy who asked me to get it for him. Should have been easy.
Starring: Ezreal
Mentioned: Mordekaiser , Sona
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Pentakill: Smite and Ignite
The era of metal has begun.
Starring: Karthus , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
By Dan Abnett
Ordinal Shieda Kayn slings out to the unremarkable edgeworld of Ionan, hot on the trail of a band of millitant Templars. These enemies of the state were clearly looking for something important...but what?
Starring: Kayn , Rhaast , Sona
Mentioned: Jarvan IV
Ultimate Concert
Drop the beat in League of Legends with high-energy Kinetic beats, hard-hitting Concussive rhythms and atmospheric Ethereal vibes.
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A wanderer from the celestial realm beyond Mount Targon , Soraka gave up her immortality to protect the mortal races from their own more violent instincts. She endeavors to spread the virtues of compassion and mercy to everyone she meets—even healing those who would wish harm upon her. And, for all Soraka has seen of this world's struggles, she still believes the people of Runeterra have yet to reach their full potential.
As the Starchild and one celestial being, Soraka and the inhabitants of the celestial realm watched the mortal realm and regarded the fledgling races of Runeterra with growing concern. The guidance and fates that had been woven by the celestials into the night sky through constellations often went unseen—or worse, were misinterpreted by the simple mortal minds, leading to chaos, uncertainty, and suffering.
No longer able to merely watch, Soraka chose to descend to the mortal realm, determined to untangle the knots in the tapestry of the world. And so Soraka came to be, and set upon her journey to soothe the mortals she encountered.
Soraka quickly learned the capacity for cruelty that the peoples of Runeterra possessed. Whether on the battlefields of inescapable conflicts, in the seedy underbellies of sprawling cities, or on the frontiers of the untamed wilderness beyond them, there seemed to be no end to the fighting, betrayal, and suffering Soraka witnessed. She watched, helpless, as mortals ignorantly broke the threads of destiny they could have woven together. Their lives were too short, she reasoned. They were simply unable to see the greater patterns, now lost.
But as Soraka lived among them, as one of them, trying to repair what little of the damage she could... something incredible and wholly unforeseen happened.
Soraka noticed a new, unintended design emerging—intertwined, and of a staggering complexity.
Unintended and wild, the mortals were forging new and unknown futures for themselves. From the celestial realm above, it had seemed like pure chaos; but with her new perspective, and blessed by the stars to stand against the erosion of time, Soraka now beheld an almost perfect beauty. Just as mortals had the deepest capacity for cruelty, so too did they possess infinite potential for kindness, and inspiration to rival anything among the stars.
Soraka realized her place was not to repair or replicate the celestial pattern. While a part of her craved the fixed, comforting destinies of the stars, she knew in her heart that static fates could not contain the unbridled, dynamic potential of mortality.
And so her work took on renewed vigor, driven to unlock the untapped possibilities of all she met. Soraka sought now to inspire and guide rather than shepherd, to see what unblazed trails each mortal would discover for themselves in their brief, radiant moment.
Star Spring of the Astral Grove .
Over the millennia, legends of the Starchild have filtered through all the lands of Runeterra. Some tribes of the Freljord still speak of a far wanderer, a horned healer who soothed the icy bite of the most brutal winters. In the depths beneath Zaun , rumors float of a lilac skinned medic who would purify weary lungs from the ravages of the alchemical Gray. In troubled Ionia , the oldest myths of the Vastayashai'rei recall a seer who communed with the stars themselves, and called upon their light both to heal the wounded and scorch those who would do further harm to the First Lands.
Currently, Soraka calls the westernmost peaks of Targon , Astral Grove her home. There she created Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). a huge source of healing waters where she watches over an isolated tribe of vastaya , teaching them her healing ways, and tending quietly to her own needs as well as shepherding Stellacorns , alicorn creatures that fall from the celestial realm. They would aid them until maturity when they would send them back to the celestial realm—though what brings her so close to the great mountain, or how long she will stay, only Soraka knows.
Many times, she has watched entire civilizations dance close to the brink of destruction, and she has learned that she cannot save those who do not wish it, nor force them to see what they will not.
All the same, Soraka is determined never to stop trying.
Soraka meets a little Rakkor girl who in the middle of the night was trying to climb the summit of Mount Targon to prove to her family that she was not "weak". Soraka then tells her about A young woman with pale hair . Her counterpart, a woman whose face burned as brightly as the sun . And a warrior with a spear .
“All of these mortals ascended to the peak. But they had chosen that path with all their soul.” She turned to the girl and spoke slowly, taking no delight in her words. “You have not truly chosen the mountain. And Targon will not choose you. You would walk to your death. Don’t do this.”
Then calling the girl to warm up and have tea, where she could leave at dawn, not to climb the mountain, but to start over and find a new path in her life.
A Vastaya named Kalan travels to Fae'lor Castle, home of Dael'eh Ahira, or the Dreaming Pool, a spiritually magical pool that previously imprisoned Syndra . After an accident, Kalan eventually freed Syndra , Kalan knelt, motionless and silent, as he waited for seer to speak. Soraka told Kalan about Fae'lor and their possible future fates. Currently, Kalan is imprisoned in Dael'eh Ahira, or Lake of Dreams.
Soraka is a celestial being slender of lilac skinned, long pale blonde hair with a single horn on the forehead, golden eyes and with goat-like legs. She wears simple wanderer outfits with a distinct palette of red, orange and some brown touches, including her cape. The most distinctive ornament on her attire is the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). adornments. It also has a golden Celestial Staff shaped like a moon at the tip. While having the appearance of the ottrani , Soraka only took the form of one, with her one horn being a key distinction from the vastayans .
Soraka is a very kind and humble individual, but she is also extremely protective and caring for those who follow her and who rely on her guidance . She is faithful to her cause in wanting to help those in need and always seeks to help those who seek help.
Despite this, Soraka believes in free will above everything else. Although she offers guidance, the offered must accept being guided and healed for her to be capable of helping. She offers numerous paths to mortals, but only they may choose the way they will walk.
Soraka, being a celestial being, knows about Aurelion Sol and seems to know him personally. While Aurelion sees Soraka as having lowered herself, she disagrees with him and sees beauty in being in the mortal world.
Pantheon once told Soraka "If only your kind could see what you see, Soraka, they would weep for you as you weep for us." Soraka refers to Pantheon as Warrior with a spear and he refers her as The Seer, Soraka once designed the Pantheon in a constellation of stars.
Taric is quite generous to Soraka, for example, when Soraka tells him "Your star shines brightly." and he replies "There is no one as brilliant as you." Both seem to share the vision of looking to mortals with kindness when Soraka says "This world has great potential". and Taric nods, saying "Each life is uniquely faceted."
Soraka knows the pain of the Lunari twins, but tells them not to feel it. what Alune considers would be to deny her and her brother their existence.
Diana met a Celestial being descending from the Astral Grove . Soraka refers to Diana as the Pale-haired Woman/Sable-haired Girl
Soraka refers to Leona as Woman whose face burned like the sun
During their climb on top of Mount Targon, Tyari would meet the starchild which would give them assurance for their efforts.
Soraka personally knows the Arbiter of the Peak and is on good terms with him.
Soraka watches over an isolated tribe of vastaya , teaching them her healing ways, and tending quietly to her own needs as well as shepherding stellacorns , alicorn creatures that fall from the celestial realm. She is a mentor to all in the tribe like Illi , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
The Starchild
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Soraka
Short Story
Halfway Between the Stars and Earth
By Katie Chironis
It was a perfectly good night for a cup of tea. Chilly, certainly, but clear—as crisp a night as frigid Mount Targon ever got, really. Soraka was expecting a visitor. The snow in the stone kettle had already begun to melt over the hearth at the center of her little yurt; as it grew warmer, the room was suffused with the smell of dried tea leaves and sparse mountain herbs.
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Nasus , Pantheon
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Beyond the Mist
Moments before reaching the Blessed Isles, Kalista’s fate is written in the mist.
Starring: Kalista
Mentioned: Ledros , Soraka , Viego
RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey (Wild Rift)
Kalista drives fear and spears into the hearts of all who oppose her, but she wasn't always as a wraith of the Shadow Isles. Come learn her tragic story in League of Legends: Wild Rift special RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey event.
Starring: Hecarim , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Jenda'kaya , Necrit , Soraka , Tyrus , Vennix
Short Story • 27 Minute Read
The Dreaming Pool
Starring: Syndra
Mentioned: Soraka
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
The Spear of Targon
A lone figure awaited the armed convoy, standing silhouetted against the sun. His heavy cloak and the long plume atop his helm billowed in the hot, dry desert wind. A tall spear was held at his side.
Starring: Pantheon
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Soraka
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Monuments of Power
Seek what makes you strong.
Starring: Shyvana , Soraka , Tahm Kench
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Blade Dancer: Issue 4
Starring: Irelia , Karma
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Jericho Swain is the visionary ruler of Noxus , an expansionist nation that reveres only strength. Though he was cast down and debilitated in the Ionian wars, his left arm severed, he seized control of the empire with ruthless determination... and a new, demonic hand. Now, Swain commands from the front lines, marching against a coming darkness that only he can see—in glimpses gathered by shadowy ravens from the corpses all around him. In a swirl of sacrifice and secrets, the greatest secret of all is that the true enemy lies within.
Jericho Swain was born into an affluent Noxian family, among the established houses that trace shortly after the nation's founding. They were also favored by the emperor of Noxus― Boram Darkwill ―having been instrumental in his rise to the throne.
Yet House Swain was also among many that hungered for power, and as such were part of a secret cabal called the Black Rose . His parents were especially intent on finding some dark power hidden in the depths of the Immortal Bastion , that which eluded discovery for many years as it cackled in the darkness like a raven's caw.
The cabal had aided Darkwill's political rise, but in time he rejected their influence thereafter. LeBlanc , head matriarch of the Black Rose, manipulated Swain as a young nobleman into revealing the Black Rose and executing its most prominent members, including Swain's own parents and Leblanc herself. However, LeBlanc's execution was a deception, and she retreated back into the shadows of Noxus to wait for an opportunity to strike. For exposing the corruption, Swain was granted a commission in the Noxian army, where he would serve for years to come.
Swain learned firsthand that the empire's true strength was upheld not by pure Noxian ferocity, but by all its people united in spite of their origins. Nobles and foreign slaves alike were all seen as soldiers on the front lines. Swain had carved out his career in securing the western borders, as well as expanding into Shurima . But in time, the aging emperor grew more paranoid and unhinged over his own mortality. Fighting wars on too many fronts, lusting over magical relics; greed became the clear motivation of the regime.
During the invasion of Ionia , Darkwill retasked much of the warbands to hunt for artifacts that could extend mortal lifespan, With Swain's forces depleted, it became nearly impossible to engage the enemy. At the Battle of the Placidium , his troops were overrun in what should have been an ambush. Swain was gravely wounded with his knee shattered and his arm cut off . On the verge of death, he felt a familiar darkness press upon him again as a raven approached to feed; but he would not let it take him. Staring into the bird's eyes, he saw a vision of the dark truth: that LeBlanc had seduced Darkwill with promises of extending his life, and had sent Swain to die. It was not the raven that told him this, but something deeper. This was the great power that Swain's parents had been looking for, and now he knew it could be found.
Returning to Noxus, Swain was disgraced and regarded as nothing more than a cripple. Through his fragile state, Swain set about in search of that strange power, that which cackled in the darkness like a raven's caw. What he found was Raum, an ancient entity that preyed on the dying and consumed their secrets. But the man solved a puzzle even the demon did not anticipate: a way to wield its power.
Swain had physically restored himself and could use magic to defeat his enemies, along with using Raum to listen to the secrets of the dying. Over the course of many years, Swain amassed power, allies, and elaborate plans to kill Darkwill. In the end, it only took one night to capture the throne. Swain revealed himself to all of Noxus, leaving Darkwill dead and the throne empty. In its place, he established the Trifarix: a council of 3 members to take over the responsibilities of the emperor. Together they embody Noxus' core values, with Swain representing Vision, Darius exemplifying Might, and The Faceless one embodying Guile. This Council was made so that no one man could rule Noxus, and if one were to divert from the foundations of strength that Noxus was built on, the other two would be able to keep them in check. Moreover, this insurance would counterbalance Swain should he ever befall to demonic corruption.
Swain immediately pulled back the Noxian forces from Darkwill's untenable ventures. He also held conventions detailing his plans for the empire, pardoning the noble houses that swore fealty, and allowing dissenting houses to safely leave the empire. A large part of the dissent was over the new policies that grated traditional power systems such as inherited lordship, personal wealth, and ownership of human property. [ 1 ]
Seeing areas of concern abroad and within, Swain sent one of the empire's best assassins in an almost impossible task. [ 2 ] Katarina was assigned to kill the Demacian king Jarvan III , as well as her own father Marcus Du Couteau , who has suspected ties with the Black Rose. However, Marcus intercepted the written order and managed to deter her long enough to get close to destroying Swain. The Grand General intervened in the final duel and backfired the implosive weapon to destroy Marcus instead. He then congratulates Katarina on her success and revealed that the assignment was a test to find an assassin that could eliminate Swain in the event that he becomes corrupt.
Secessionists held the mineral-rich Rokrund Plains , crafting explosives that deterred Noxian forces from advancing. This prompted Swain to visit the campaign generals and discuss strategy. One of these was General Brannin Granth , a secret operative of the Black Rose that plotted to kill Swain. Within the meeting, he proclaimed that the battle was unwinnable without death and revealed an explosive fuse ready to blow. Swain chuckled at the profound suggestion, agreeing that while the soldiers may die anyway, their sacrifice makes way for a greater reinforcement. He then reveals his demon arm and quickly strangles Granth. "Granth and I... we always look for what must be sacrificed in order to win."
Seven years into the Trifarix rule, delegates Oram and Alyssa from the Delverhold approached the council to negociate concessions in response to a local crisis. The mineral export quotas became unsustainable with the dwindling reserves in the Ironspike mines, sinking the people into poverty. Furthermore, Oram argued that their treaty to the empire had been invalidated with the death of the emperor, which permits the Delverhold to extricate from the empire if necessary. While Swain agreed to hear the terms, Darius argued that there was no compelling bargain.
Some days go by, and the delegates attempted to seize and extort the Faceless One for their vote. But in a deceptive trap, Oram is killed by Alyssa and she is quickly captured by the guards. She is brought before the Trifarix, whom were fully aware of the extortion, but recognize her disaffection in the Delverhold. Swain candidly stated that the Trifarix did not want to encourage other provinces to make demands as well. Alyssa said that she knew the Delverhold governor would use the delegates' deaths to justify secession, but returning Delverhold to the kingdom rule would be a grave mistake long-term. She then suggested to become governor herself in order to maintain relations with Noxus. The council agree to the idea and sent a Trifarian entourage with her back to Delverhold to claim office.
Swain is a fair skinned man with long, white hair. He wears black armor, black pants, and a black coat. His left arm was restored with the power of Raum, and consequently glows a shade of red.
Swain is cold and calculating, often seeing people's lives as pieces in a bigger game. He is a master tactician and general, able to predict his enemies' next move with his cunning intellect and win battles swiftly and efficiently. Swain does not often act in his own interests, rather doing whatever is best for Noxus, as he knows that the empire is much more important than him, and he is committed to returning it back to its foundations and making sure that it outlasts him.
Irelia cut off Swain's left arm during the Battle of the Placidium.
Swain and Darius are two of the three heads of the Trifarix of Noxus , embodying the Noxian values of Vision and Might respectively, along with The Faceless One, who embodies Guile.
As one of many Noxian nobles that are negatively affected by Swain's coup, Ambessa strongly detests Swain for his rule in overthrowing the old Emperor, Boram Darkwill as well as establishing the Triferian Council. She often scornfully calls him as the "Usurper" or "A Man with only vision but no Foresight". She also refers him as a Raven and herself as a wolf, indicating that she thinks his rule weakens Noxus.
When audiences for the Reckoning arenas waned and Draven fell into a drunk stupor, Swain found him and offered him a role in his coup against Boram Darkwill. He became integral to Swain’s plan, killing Darkwill himself. He is considered a close ally by Swain.
Katarina serves as an assassin for the Trifarix council, killing people at their command. It is also hinted that Swain may know what happened to her father.
Urgot was sent away from Noxus to Zaun as a part of Swain's coup, as he was seen as a liability and a potential threat to Swain's plan.
It is likely that Raum worked for Mordekaiser or was used by him, as Swain found Raum in the Immortal Bastion .
Gangplank stole The Leviathan, Swain's personal warship and the head of the Noxian fleet. Because of this, Swain despises Gangplank and wishes to see his demise.
Swain has close ties with the Black Rose . The organization is currently trying to either control Swain or kill him in order to take the throne from him. Swain knows this and is trying to take down the organization, but knows that it is unlikely that he will accomplish this goal.
Swain considers LeBlanc, the head matriarch of the Black Rose, as his rival. Swain and LeBlanc's personal relationship is vague, and they may have been lovers at some point. [ 3 ] When Boram Darkwill first took the throne and refused help from the Black Rose, LeBlanc, unbeknownst to Swain, manipulated Swain into revealing the Black Rose and making it look like she was executed and the Black Rose was dead. [ 4 ]
Swain obtained Sion from the Black Rose after the organization left Sion in his own tomb for years. Swain now uses him as a living weapon to use against his enemies.
The Noxian Grand General
By David Slagle
Starring: Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , LeBlanc
Katarina: Issue 5
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Noxian Brotherhood
By Jared Rosen
Draven - Another victory for the Glorious Executioner.
Starring: Darius , Draven , Swain
Short Story
Proclamation of the Trifarix
By Laurie Goulding
Citizens of Noxus, I bring word from the capital!
Starring: Darius , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Black Powder Plot
He arrived at the camp only moments before the strategy council was to begin, flanked by a small honor guard, each handpicked from the Trifarian Legion. They remained at the entrance as I watched him approach.
Starring: Brannin Granth , Swain
Mentioned: LeBlanc
The Noxian Grand General (Video)
Noxus has endured, because Noxus is strong. But the Grand-General Jericho Swain knows there are many kinds of strength—and the greatest leaders of the next age will be those who can wield them all...
Short Story • 17 Minute Read
The Principles of Strength
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
My name is Alyssa Roshka Gloriana val-Lokan. For almost two millennia, my ancestors ruled the Delverhold as kings.
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Irelia , Kindred
At the Edge of the World
By Ian St. Martin
"Seven times,"
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Swain
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
In The Mind of Madness
By Randy Begel
Starring: Sion
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Swain
Katarina: Issue 1
Starring: Drann , Katarina , Khogan , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Talon
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Katarina: Issue 2
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Katarina: Issue 3
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Katarina
Mentioned: Arrika , Drann , Jarvan III , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 4
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Talon
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Jarvan III , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Zed
Message on a Blade's Edge
By Michael Yichao
An assassin's blades are but one of her weapons. Know your mark. Know the killing ground. Anything can be a tool to secure the kill.
Starring: Katarina
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Sisterhood of War Part 1: Old Wounds
“Is anything you just heard unclear to you?”
Starring: Arrel , Erath , Marit , Teneff , Tifalenji
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Riven , Swain , Syndra
The Blade Dancer
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Irelia
Mentioned: Karma , Swain
The Crimson Reaper
By 'Blood Magicks'
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Swain
The Deceiver
Starring: LeBlanc
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Mordekaiser , Swain
The Glorious Executioner
Starring: Draven
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Swain
The Hand of Noxus
Starring: Darius
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Draven , Swain
The Restrained Hunger
By Max Folkman
Starring: Briar
The Saltwater Scourge
Starring: Gangplank
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Swain
The Serpent's Embrace
Starring: Cassiopeia
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Sivir , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
The Shuttered Manse
By Graham McNeill
She felt the thief coming closer with every careful step he took.
Starring: Elise , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Kindred , Rammus , Swain
The Undead Juggernaut
Thorns of the Black Rose
I smile, playing my part. “It is the simplest of things,” I tell him, “to hide in plain sight.”
Starring: Brannin Granth , LeBlanc
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Darius , Mordekaiser , Swain
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
There's nothing like teaming up with your favorite duo partner in League of Legends. Just ask LilyPichu and sleightlymusical. It's On.
Starring: Ezreal , Lux , Swain
Faction Wars
Starring: Garen , Swain
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
By Numerous creators
Starring: LeBlanc , Sion , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Elise , Jarvan IV , Vladimir
Music Video
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Blade Dancer: Issue 3
Starring: Irelia , Karma
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Raised in one of Demacia’s lesser quarters, Sylas of Dregbourne has come to symbolize the darker side of the Great City . As a boy, his ability to root out hidden sorcery caught the attention of the notorious mageseekers , who eventually imprisoned him for turning those same powers against them. Having now broken free, Sylas lives as a hardened revolutionary, using the magic of those around him to destroy the kingdom he once served… and his band of outcast mage followers seems to grow by the day.
Sylas of Dregbourne was born in Demacia , where he developed magical abilities at a young age. As per the typical Demacian belief that magic was an affliction, Sylas' parents convinced him to turn himself in to the Mageseekers . The Mageseekers took notice of Sylas' ability to sense the magic within people, so they used his power to identify the mages within the city. But Sylas began to notice the prominence of mages living their lives as civilians, having to live with being labeled as criminals by Demacian society, which caused him to doubt his standing within Demacia.
One day, Sylas and his Mageseeker handlers found a young mage girl in the countryside, forced to live in hiding to avoid persecution. Sylas took pity on her due to being so young so he tried to protect her from his handlers, but he accidentally brushed against her skin, causing Sylas to fire her lightning magic uncontrollably, resulting in the deaths of the girl as well as two Mageseekers. Sylas tried to evade the law, but he was labelled as the most dangerous mage alive and when he was caught, he was sentenced to imprisonment for life.
With his hands chained by petricite shackles, Sylas was imprisoned in a Mageseeker compound for fifteen years, growing disillusioned and vengeful towards the kingdom and seeking its downfall. One day, Luxanna Crownguard of the Crownguard House found him in the compound and sympathized with him for his plight, with both soon forming a steady bond. While Lux visited Sylas to teach him about the world outside his cell and gave him books to read, and in exchange he taught her how to control her magic. One of the books Sylas recieved was Galio 's blueprint by Durand, where he learned about the true properties of petricite and how it did not nullify magic, but accumulate it until it reached its breaking point. All he needed to do now was touch Lux to absorb her magic into his shackles and break free.
Eventually, the Crownguards found out about Lux's meetings with Sylas, so he was sentenced to public execution by sword. Lux intervened by telling the crowd by advocating for Sylas' rights, but he touched her and unleashed a powerful blast of Lux's magic, killing everyone on scene except Lux.
Freed from the authorities, Sylas used his powers to destroy the Mageseeker compound and free the imprisoned mages to start a revolution against Demacia for their persecution of mages. He led them to the royal castle to capture Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and publicly humiliate him, but to his surprise the king had already been killed before he arrived. His son, Prince Jarvan IV , blamed Sylas and the mages for causing the death of his father, while Sylas decided to humiliate him instead. Sylas tied Jarvan IV to a chair and forced him to eat a rat to reflect the terrible conditions experienced by the prisoners of the compound, but Lux came to stop him, with her magic suppressed after drinking a petricite mixture. She shot a crossbow at Sylas and stabbed him in the foot before releasing Jarvan IV.
The Dauntless Vanguard arrived in time, led by Lux's brother Garen Crownguard . Lux warned Garen to avoid letting Sylas touch his petricite armaments, so Garen grabbed an axe to strike him. Sylas counterattacked Garen by absorbing the magic of one of his downed allies, but Jarvan IV put him at a chokehold to avenge his father. Sylas was outnumbered by the Demacian army, so he told his allies to retreat into the sewers to escape Demacia. As he began to leave, Lux tried to warn the mages not to follow him, but he told them that there was no need to worry about her because she wouldn't hurt an innocent.
Due to Jarvan IV blaming Sylas' revolution for the death of King Jarvan III, he enforced a zero-tolerance policy towards magic in Demacia, causing innocent mages in Demacia to be sentenced to merciless treatment by the Mageseekers. Out of desperation, some mages planned to flee Demacia to migrate to Sylas' camp so they would be safe.
(TBA) Sylas teamed up with the Winter's Claw to fight against Garen and his sister, Lux , as well as other Demacian soldiers. Sylas and his allies were defeated after Lux summoned Galio .
Sylas is an adult man with fair skin, a slim, athletic yet muscular build, he has shoulder-length black hair, thick eyebrows, blue eyes, and a short beard.
He doesn't wear a shirt and leaves his chest exposed, he has broken manacles around his neck and forearms with broken yellow petricite chains, likewise he also wears gray pants and goes barefoot using bandages on his feet.
Sylas is a ruthless, determined rebel who opposes Demacia's unfair persecution of mages regardless of their intentions. When he was younger, he initially wanted to protect his fellow mages from being harmed by his Mageseeker associates, but after the incident which got him imprisoned, Sylas grew to resent the kingdom after fifteen years of imprisonment. After being freed, he took on the role of a martyr for his fellow mages, inspiring them to join his rebellion. His initial goal was to raze Demacia to the ground, with no prospect of the aftermath. Despite his devotion to his cause, he harboured deep remorse towards his betrayal of Lux.
During his revolution against the Mageseekers, Sylas gradually developed a change of heart thanks to Leilani's influence, letting go of his desire for vengeance and learning to value his fellow rebels, even being more merciful towards his enemies. He was heavily affected by the deaths of the allies that he had lost on the way, striving to become a better leader for their sake. After achieving victory, Sylas split his alliance with the Demacians and started fighting against them again, believing that because the Demacian government would enable an ideology like the Mageseekers to happen, mages would never be truly free until the monarchy is abolished.
Sylas was abducted by the Mageseekers at a very young age and had his magic detection abilities used to find and capture other mages. After an incident where Sylas ended up killing two mageseekers by accident to protect a little girl, he fled to the wilderness. Eventually he would be caught by the mageseekers and imprisoned for 15 years. He would harbor great resentment of his captors as they would treat him like an animal and barely give him any food.
Sylas formed a bond with Lux while he was imprisoned. In exchange for information of the outside world, he would teach her to control her magic due to magic being outlawed in Demacia. He later manipulated her and used her power to escape. He would eventually make amends with her and come to her aid when the mageseekers attacked her mages settlement. While Lux has not forgotten Sylas' betrayal, she undestands he is more than just a murderer.
After escaping his execution, Sylas and his followers fought Garen . He would best him in every fight they had, only retreating when Garen's reinforcements arrived.
After escaping his execution, Sylas and his followers almost executed Jarvan IV before fleeing. He had intended to execute Jarvan III, but then found out that the king was already mysteriously dead in the chamber he and his guard retinue had retreated to.
Sylas would form an alliance with the Winter's Claw , who later helps him attack Demacia .
Sylas encountered Galio who came to aid Lux, Garen, and other Demacian soldiers during this attack on Demacia from the north.
Lux got Durand's original texts, which include Galio's design specs, for Sylas to read. On the mention of the colossus, she states that she "knows" him as if speaking of a person and not as a statue. (She had befriended him when she was 13.) [ 2 ] Sylas clearly found her wording odd but occupied with the texts, did not question her about it, apparently not realizing that Durand's wording on Galio meant that absorbing magic allows him to move on his own.
Sylas's own shackles were originally built by Durand, who also designed Galio , to restrain powerful demons like Tahm Kench and Evelynn .
Sylas knows certain truths about the winged sisters and calls out their power during the events of Lux comics . He also believed the Veiled Lady is an absent deity, not coming to aid to those who pray to her every night. Sylas would eventually meet Morgana and learn that she was one of the Winged Protectors as well as the Veiled Lady. He sought her aid in his war against the mageseekers, but she refused to grant him, seeing consumed by vengeance. After being humbled by Leilani's death, Sylas was willing to give up his revenge and received Morgana's blessing.
The Unshackled
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Sylas
Mentioned: Lux
Short Story
Demacian Heart
By Phillip Vargas
Nature made him a mage. The seekers made him a killer.
Lux: Issue 1
By John O'Bryan , Billy Tan , Haining , Gadson , John Roshell
In Demacia, order reigns and magic is forbidden. How will the order be upset when Lux's hidden magic emerges?
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan III , Jarvan IV
Lux: Issue 2
Struggling to control her growing magic, Lux bluffs her way into the Mageseeker compound.
Starring: Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Mentioned: Galio , Jarvan III , Morgana , Tianna
Lux: Issue 3
If saving Sylas means exposing her powers, will Lux dare risk her own future to save a criminal?
Lux: Issue 4
Sylas' master plan is revealed! But is it too late for a guilt-ridden Lux to turn the tide?
Starring: Garen , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas , Tianna
Mentioned: Kayle , Morgana , Shyvana
Lux: Issue 5
As all mages are hunted down by Prince Jarvan IV and forces led by Garen, Lux must make her ultimate decision!
Mentioned: Jarvan III
Stand With Sylas
Demacia is built on a lie. All these noble ideals and promises of a brighter future - they were never meant for us. For too long have we mages had to hide in the shadows, and it has cost us everything. It is time we stand up and fight back!
Mentioned: Garen
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
The Recruit
The sun was at its peak, just high enough to illuminate the exiles' camp hidden deep in the canyon. From the shade of his lean-to, Sylas of Dregbourne waited patiently for his scout to return. At last, he saw her rounding the stone spire at the mouth of the crevasse, leading a wide-eyed young stranger into the camp.
The Shackles of Belief
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Thorva, Sister of Frost, hauled on her reins, dragging her hulking drüvask to a halt alongside Scarmother Vrynna of the Winter's Claw.
Starring: Sylas , Vrynna
Mentioned: Lissandra
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
Garen: First Shield
The King is dead. Demacia is mourning. And in the eyes of Garen Crownguard, it’s his fault. But can he rise to the challenge when Demacia needs him again? While on a peacetime expedition beyond the borders of Demacia, Garen, Quinn, and the Dauntless Vanguard uncover a plot that threatens to destroy long-standing alliances. As the knight-ranger Quinn tries to get word back to Demacia, Garen and his comrades make a desperate last stand. How long can they last, and at what cost?
Starring: Cithria , Garen , Quinn , Tianna
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Lux , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 2
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Katarina: Issue 3
Starring: Garen , Jaredan , Katarina
Mentioned: Arrika , Drann , Jarvan III , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas
Katarina: Issue 5
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
Shield of Remembrance
Quinn ran through the forest, moving softly and swiftly.
Starring: Dalin , Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Anivia , Garen , Genevieve , Sylas , Tianna
The Seneschal of Demacia
By Michael Luo
Starring: Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Sylas
Why send us all the way out here?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Sylas
Fortune Favors the Lucky
Join Firecracker Sejuani, Firecracker Vayne, Lunar Wraith Sylas, and Coin Emperor Tahm Kench in celebrating the Year of the Pig!
Starring: Sejuani , Sylas , Tahm Kench , Vayne
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Syndra is a fearsome Ionian mage with incredible power at her command. As a child, she disturbed the village elders with her reckless and wild magic. She was sent away to be taught greater control, but eventually discovered her supposed mentor was restraining her abilities. Forming her feelings of betrayal and hurt into dark spheres of energy, Syndra has sworn to destroy all who would try to control her.
Syndra was born in Navori, Ionia, within a small village. She possessed a distracted nature, causing her parents to frequently punish her. Each time she was punished, Syndra sought solace in her secret hideout - the Spectral Willow. There, she confided her sorrows to the tree in cries and whispers, finding refuge in its roots.
However, one fateful day, Syndra's brother, Evard, and his friends discovered her hideout and began taunting her. Despite her efforts to disregard them, one of Evard's friends threw mud at her, drawing blood and igniting a fierce rage within the young, tormented girl. Three luminous orbs materialized around Syndra, causing the willow tree to wither and Evard and his friends to flee. Syndra's village, reliant on the willow tree for its magical essence, blamed Syndra's family for its demise, resulting in their eventual exile.
Following their exile from Navori, Syndra and her family traversed Ionia for days until reaching Fae'lor, a renowned magic school of Syndra's time specializing in the taming of wild magic. Faced with limited alternatives, Syndra's parents made the decision for her to remain at the school to refine her magic.
Initially content in her pursuit of magical knowledge, Syndra eventually grew frustrated as she sensed a waning in her abilities over time. She confronted Konigen, her teacher, who then revealed that Syndra's extraordinary magical prowess had compelled him to seal her powers. Shocked by this revelation, Syndra reproached her teacher for this betrayal. Her rage overwhelmed her once more, causing her to unleash a sphere of energy at her teacher, killing him.
Consumed by immense pain and loneliness, Syndra ascended into the sky, summoning three orbs of energy that sapped the spiritual essence of Fae'lor. She unleashed devastation upon the entire island, indiscriminately eliminating anyone in her path. This prompted the intervention of the Spirit of Ionia.
The spirit created a rift in the earth, restraining Syndra with thick vines and pulling her into the crevice. Instead of killing her, however, the spirit submerged Syndra in a mystical pond, casting her into a magic slumber where she would remain for a hundred years,
Syndra is a slender woman with fair skin, back-length silvery-white hair, and bright violet eyes.
She wears black purple Ionian armor that reveals her shoulders and legs, black knee socks, and a two-pronged helmet.
As a child Syndra was a very withdrawn girl due to the constant abuse of her family, over time that sadness turned into rage and she just wanted to be left alone.
As an adult, Syndra developed a spiteful and explosive personality because when she didn't like something she caused a magical explosion that destroyed everything, she also had a deep grudge against the Ionians for all the damage they did to her as a child.
Due to her abusive upbringing and being imprisoned for decades in Fae'lor of Ionia, she has grown hateful against all Ionians to an extent that she even approves of Noxian presence. However, she has no prior knowledge of Noxus before the events of her release.
Although she seems to thank the Noxians for standing against the people who locked her, she also has little care for them, killing all of the invaders on the fortress and destroying a Noxian warship with a mere glance of her eyes.
The Dark Sovereign
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Syndra
Rise of the Dark
She might’ve been asleep, but that hasn’t dampened the dark powers Syndra will start wielding come January 18th!
Short Story • 27 Minute Read
The Dreaming Pool
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Mentioned: Soraka
Short Story
Sisterhood of War Part 1: Old Wounds
By Ian St. Martin
“Is anything you just heard unclear to you?”
Starring: Arrel , Erath , Marit , Teneff , Tifalenji
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Riven , Swain , Syndra
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Be Your Best Santa
Santa Draven, Ambitious Elf Jinx, and Snow Fawn Poppy step up to help Santa Braum with this year’s Snowdown festivities. But with Jinx and Draven at the frontlines, the celebrations could easily snowball into shenanigans!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Draven , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Karma , Lulu , Malzahar , Maokai , Orianna , Poppy , Sejuani , Syndra
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Siren's Call
It waits. Make the world anew with Coven Nami, Elise, Akali, Syndra, Nilah, and Old God Mordekaiser.
Starring: Akali , Elise , Nami , Nilah , Syndra
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
The Slumber Party Summoning
Okay, I'll admit slamming the door in their faces was a bit of an overreaction.
Starring: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka
Mentioned: Ahri , Pantheon , Syndra
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Wandering Spirits
Maybe this is the year. Sett leaves home once again to find his akana father, the Spirit of Abandonment. Will the spirits along the path lead him away? Or will he finally find the way back to his mother?
Starring: Sett
Mentioned: Master Yi , Syndra , Tristana
Syndra, The Dark Sovereign
FUCK YOU MAUKNINK I HOPE U DIE IRL AND GET HIT BY A TRUCK
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Known by many names throughout history, the demon Tahm Kench travels the waterways of Runeterra , feeding his insatiable appetite with the misery of others. Though he may appear singularly charming and proud, he swaggers through the physical realm like a vagabond in search of unsuspecting prey. His lashing tongue can stun even a heavily armoured warrior from a dozen paces, and to fall into his rumbling belly is to tumble into an abyss from which there is little hope of return.
Tahm Kench is a catfish-like humanoid with a large, rotund body, short, stubby limbs, and a tail. His most noticeable feature is his enormous mouth, lined with rows of countless uneven fangs and containing a long, prehensile tongue. He has a thick, mustache-like pair of catfish barbels on his upper lip. He has shiny green skin, pale in the front with darker green markings across his back. His wide-set eyes are a sinister, solid yellow. He has three clawed fingers on each hand and four clawed toes on each foot. He also has dark red fins on his tail and elbows.
Tahm attempts to dress as a gentleman, though his clothes appear too small for his massive form, particularly the black human-sized top hat which is dwarfed by his oversized head. The hat features a dark red ribbon edge trim and a golden accessory on the side. He also wears a dark maroon dress shirt and what appears to be two overcoats (one brown and the other dark blue) stitched together into one. The sleeves are missing, seemingly unable to fit his bulky arms, but he still wears the detached cuffs on his wrists with additional wrappings on his hands. The clothes are worn and ragged with faded golden buttons. He also wears a gold ring with a green gem on his left index finger and another gold ring on his left barbel.
Tahm Kench is a voracious being that is constantly hungry and craves nothing more than to indulge himself with as much as he can consume. He is extremely cruel and manipulative, taking advantage of those that are vulnerable to make them make deals with him, using an affable façade to trick others into trusting him, using their desires to lure them to their doom.
Tahm Kench knows a lot of champions (both as fellows and adversaries, those who get consumed by their inner demons, and those who overcome them) and all Yordles have encountered him at various times (easy to manipulate when socially outcast, harder when not so).
He seems to be on friendly terms with, or at least respect, Aatrox (Tahm Kench calls him 'brother') given both manipulate mankind (their foibles and their lust for bloodshed, respectively) for personal gain as well as both being timeless entities known across the ages in various names and forms.
Tahm Kench is considered both an equal and a rival by Evelynn , as they are both long-lived demons that feed on human emotion for sustenance, with Tahm Kench preying on greed and the misery of loss, while Evelynn preys on lust and the pain she causes her victims.
Kalista occasionally comes after him; however, he is safe from her as he technically did not betray his victims, just followed his contracts.
The River King
By Odin Austin Shafer , Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Tahm Kench
The Gambler's Woe
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
My, that's quite the haul ye have, there! Won at the tables, was it? Well, here's to your very good health. Cheers.
The River King (Video)
Desperate times call for desperate measures. I can make you a fine bargain... but you gotta be willing to pay the price.
Short Story
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
By Jared Rosen
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
By Graham McNeill
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
The Boys and Bombolini
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Fortune Favors the Lucky
Join Firecracker Sejuani, Firecracker Vayne, Lunar Wraith Sylas, and Coin Emperor Tahm Kench in celebrating the Year of the Pig!
Starring: Sejuani , Sylas , Tahm Kench , Vayne
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Monuments of Power
Seek what makes you strong.
Starring: Shyvana , Soraka , Tahm Kench
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Taliyah is a nomadic mage from Shurima , torn between teenage wonder and adult responsibility. She has crossed nearly all of Valoran on a journey to learn the true nature of her growing powers, though more recently she has returned to protect her tribe. Some have mistaken her compassion for weakness and paid the ultimate price—for beneath Taliyah's youthful demeanor is a will strong enough to move mountains, and a spirit fierce enough to make the earth itself tremble.
Taliyah was born in the south of Shurima, near the border of Icathia. Her tribe, the Naasaj, were nomadic weavers and herders. Though Taliyah was always taught to appreciate the desert's beauty, she was always most interested in the rock that lay underneath.
After she turned six, Taliyah set off to find a young goat her father - the master shepherd and tribe chief - had placed in her hands. She followed the goatling through the night to a sheer cliff where it had become stuck. The stone of the cliff called to her as she lay a hand upon it, then erupted, bringing both goat and canyon wall down upon her. Her father brought her back to the camp and put her under the care of Babajan, the tribe's grandmother. Days later, she was finally able to explain what had happened, how the stone had called to her, but didn't mention that she had allowed it to fall. Babajan concluded that the Great Weaver watched over Taliyah, telling her parents that there was no reason to worry.
Once a child came of age in the Naasaj tribe, they performed a dance under the full moon - the face of the Great Weaver - to determine what their path in life would be based on their talents, and to apprentice them to a teacher. Taliyah, believing her power to be a curse, watched others use their own skills. When her time to dance finally came, she did not choose to become a weaver like her mother or herder like her father, instead closing her eyes and dancing with the stone. It rose up from the earth in a pillar, evoking startled cries from her kin. Her will broken, the rock crashed to the ground, cutting Taliyah's mother as she rushed to protect her daughter. To Taliyah, this was proof that she was indeed dangerous to everyone around her, and so she ran out into the night.
Her father found her eventually, and Taliyah finally admitted her ability to shape the stone. Instead of being scared or revolted, though, he told her that she needed to face her power, not run from it. She returned to the circle with open eyes. This time, she wove with purpose, creating a memory of those she loved. When it was time for her mentor to stand, the entire tribe did, ready to stand with her. But Taliyah knew that her true teacher was not among them, and so she headed out into the world, promising to learn to control her power.
By now in her mid-teens, Taliyah headed west towards Targon , drawn towards the mountain by her natural affinity for stone. However, while in northern Shurima, it was a band of Noxians who discovered her. They promised her that Noxus celebrated such power, that she would find a teacher there. Raised to be trusting, Taliyah followed them, into the heart of Noxus. The endless political games were claustrophobic to her, until one captain promised to take her to Ionia , a place where she could practise her magic freely. But when they docked near a village and she was told to bury the inhabitants in their homes, Taliyah refused, and was tossed overboard to drown, which gave her a lifelong fear of drowning.
After escaping the Noxians, Taliyah came across Yasuo , meditating in a shrine. She accidentally brought down an avalanche upon him, but managed to save him and bring him to a cave. He asked her why she had chosen such a path, causing her to leave the cave in frustration. While outside, Taliyah came face-to-face with an Ionian mountain lion. Learning a lesson from a little bird, Taliyah leaned into her power and crumbled the rock beneath both her and the lion. Yasuo saved her, becoming her unlikely mentor in the process. They had another harrowing encounter when some soldiers found them in an inn, accusing Yasuo of murder. With Taliyah's help, he fended them off and they escaped. Not long afterwards, they parted ways, but not before Yasuo told Taliyah to travel to the Freljord .
Taliyah rushing home at the sight of The Sun Disc
Taliyah returned to Shurima at around 17 years of age, passing through Bel'zhun and stopping in Vekaura. Outside the city, however, she found a dying Sivir , and decided to help her before going to find her family. While there, an army led by Xerath attacked Vekaura, looking for the heir to Azir's lineage - Sivir - in order to kill her. Nasus , who was also looking for Sivir, found them both and gave Sivir an amulet which would keep her hidden from Xerath, before going to fight the rogue Ascended. Taliyah managed to escape Vekaura with Sivir, but also protected Nasus and the survivors of the attack from Xerath's arcane missiles.
While outrunning a sandstorm, Taliyah ended up right outside the Great City of Shurima, which had risen from the sands. She was ushered into the city to escape the sandstorm, which seemed too dangerous to withstand with the old Shuriman traditions. As she rested, she put a hand out to touch a city wall and was suddenly overwhelmed by memories locked within the stone. There was intense pain seared into the rock by tens of thousands of voices, the city's previous citizens. Azir's failed Ascension and Xerath's betrayal had killed all of them, in the same catastrophe which buried the city millennia ago.
Taliyah spent a while in the desert, travelling with a group of other Shurimans whose families or homes had been destroyed by the Void, including Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). . She considered them her new family. Her quest to find her tribe was complicated by the fact that the seasonal waters no longer flowed, so she could no longer predict their location. The group had decided to travel north to Xolun, a place they believed would be a safe haven from the Void.
Kai'Sa meets Taliyah
When she sensed a person travelling underneath the earth, Taliyah resolved to follow and help them if she could. The person turned out to be Kai'Sa , who had been tracing a massive tunnel bored into the earth by an unknown voidborn. Taliyah managed to save Kai'Sa from a group of Lamplights, though didn't destroy them, and a pit collapse. They returned to Taliyah's camp to rest and eat, but Kai'Sa left the next day to continue following the tunnel underground, warning that the Xer'Sai would stop them before they got to Xolan . In fact, their route lay directly above the tunnel, and a little while later it collapsed into a massive pit, taking Samir (the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). ) with it. Taliyah got the other travellers to safety before diving in to save Samir. She found him, and helped Kai'Sa defeat the Lamplights using Kai'Sa's speed and her minefield of stone . Thanks to the other travelers, all three made it out alive. Kai'Sa was angry with Taliyah for not taking her advice earlier and pointed out that if the tunnel aligned with the route to Xolan , the town was likely already destroyed . Taliyah argued that they had managed to defeat the Lamplights together. They decided to try and reclaim Xolan from the Void, and so they parted ways with the group of travelers.
Taliyah and Kai'Sa arrived in Xolan to find the town abandoned and destroyed. They were then attacked by a group of Xer'Sai , but fended them off before a sinkhole appeared in the ground. Rek'Sai emerged from the pit, and Kai'Sa lured her back underground. This allowed Taliyah to bring the statue of Xolaani, the 'faceless god', over the sinkhole to prevent Rek'Sai from re-emerging.
Taliyah wears a red and gold Ionian coat with long sleeves over her lavender tunic, and a golden crown which keeps her hair in place. This crown was lost or destroyed during her travel to Xolun. She has brown eyes, thick eyebrows, light brown hair tied in a ponytail with two protruding strands braided, fringe, and a wide nose.
Taliyah is a kind, compassionate young woman with a strong will. She is deeply devoted to her homeland and the people in it, dedicating herself to protecting them from both Shuriman and outside threats. Her confidence was bolstered by Yasuo, as he taught her how to control her power over stone. Her Myers-Briggs personality type is ENTJ ( 'the Commander' ). [ 2 ]
Yasuo became the teacher Taliyah had been looking for, as her people didn't understand her power, and Noxus sought to use her as a weapon. Before parting ways, Taliyah gave Yasuo the thread of handspun Shuriman wool with which he ties his hair back in-game. As an only child, Taliyah sees Yasuo as the older brother she never had. [ 3 ]
Having heard only rumors of both the Ancient Shuriman capital and Azir's rise from the sands, Taliyah is convinced he is a threat to her family and her homeland when nothing could be further from the truth .
On the way to find her family, Taliyah encountered a wounded Sivir and nurtured her.
Nasus encountered both of them when looking for Sivir in Vekaura . Taliyah was at first suspicious of his motives but later came to trust him. When Xerath and his army came to decimate the place and find Sivir , Nasus bought time for Taliyah to help others escape.
After her return to Shurima, Taliyah met Kai'Sa and they fought the Voidborn together, including some of Rek'Sai's Xer'Sai . Taliyah parted way with the group she travelled with to join Kai'Sa in search of the mythical paradise, Xolan.
The Stoneweaver
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Yasuo
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
By Graham McNeill
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Echoes in the Stone
Taliyah was outrunning the sandstorm when she first noticed the water. In the beginning, it was faint, just a cool dampness she felt as she lifted the stones from deep beneath the sand. As she drew closer to old Shurima, wet streaks dripped from each new stone as if they were weeping. Taliyah knew the rock had stories to tell as she sped across the desert, but she didn't have time to listen, to hear if they were tears of joy or sadness.
Mentioned: Azir , Sivir
Short Story
By Dana Luery Shaw
Kai’Sa peers out from the mouth of the tunnel and feels like she’s standing at the edge of the world.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Rek'Sai
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus
Short Story • 19 Minute Read
The Bird and the Branch
A young stone mage from Shurima encounters an unlikely mentor in the mountains of Ionia.
Starring: Taliyah , Yasuo
Mentioned: Azir
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Orchid's Bloom
By Michael Yichao
Jing breathed deep.
Starring: Yasuo
Mentioned: Riven , Taliyah , Yone
By Jared Rosen
“Okay,” Kai’Sa pants...
Starring: Bel'Veth , Kai'Sa
Mentioned: Kassadin , Taliyah
Roots of a Poisoned Tree
Dust hung in veils as Shoorai followed the mechanical-limbed form of Tunnel-Chief Hewlett deeper into the mine shaft.
Starring: Malphite
Mentioned: Azir , Taliyah
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
The Unforgiven
Mentioned: Azir , Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Shadow of a Doubt
Star Guardians have a brilliant light, but some stagger in the darkness. Can Akali escape her own nightmares?
Starring: Akali , Morgana
Mentioned: Kai'Sa , Quinn , Rell , Taliyah
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Talon is the knife in the darkness, a merciless killer able to strike without warning and escape before any alarm is raised. He carved out a dangerous reputation on the brutal streets of Noxus , where he was forced to fight, kill, and steal to survive. Adopted by the notorious Du Couteau family, he now plies his deadly trade at the empire's command, assassinating enemy leaders, captains, and heroes… as well as any Noxian foolish enough to earn the scorn of their masters.
Talon has no recollection of his family, nor of any warmth or kindness. He scraped out a living through his quick wits and deft thievery in the underbelly of Noxus. He learned to navigate the underground passages of Noxus and attained mastery of the blade. Marked as a threat by the empire, assassins were sent after him. He managed to kill his pursuers, dropping their bodies into Noxus’ moat.
However, when General Du Couteau himself came after Talon, the Noxian General emerged victorious in the duel. He made an offer to Talon – to die or serve the Noxian High Command. Talon chose to live on the condition that he would serve the General alone because he could only respect orders from those he could not defeat.
Talon is a fair-skinned human man with dark hair and brown eyes. He is usually seen dressed as an assassin, with nearly his full body covered in blue cloth and light metal armor. This outfit features a large hood that shrouds his face and a decorative "cape" composed of five blades dangling from red ribbons. He also sometimes covers his nose and mouth with a cloth mask. His signature weapon is a large silver blade strapped to his right forearm.
Talon is a cold and deadly perfectionist, valuing swift and clean kills above all else. He is obedient and efficient in his tasks, but despite his generally merciless approach, Talon believes his methodology is the best for all parties involved. In Talon's words, it's more merciful to give targets a quick, painless death than to draw it out, and it is both safer and more efficient for an assassin to avoid combat when possible. If a clean kill is not delivered immediately, Talon already considers that to be failure.
Talon is shown to deeply value his family, taking on their name and greatly respecting Marcus and House Du Couteau. However, Talon's admiration and obedience to his father ultimately leads him down the path of resentment, as Talon desperately works to maintain Marcus Du Couteau's approval and comes to view himself as the rightful heir. Because of this, Katarina sees Talon as a younger version of herself - someone who has lost his independence to become Marcus' pawn - and pities him for it.
Talon was bested by and consequently served under General Du Couteau, Katarina and Cassiopeia's father.
Talon was assigned the task of killing Katarina after her first failure by her father, [ 1 ] his assassination failed, which left a scar on her left eye. He decided to bear his failure instead of reattempting, due to the hypocrisy it would be compared to Katarina's case. He named the very blade he used after Katarina, and keeps it in case he is reassigned to kill her.
The Blade's Shadow
By Unknown Author
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Marcus Du Couteau
Katarina: Issue 1
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Katarina , Khogan , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Talon
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain
Katarina: Issue 4
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Talon
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Jarvan III , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Zed
Short Story
The Name of the Blade
By Ian St. Martin
There is copper in the air.
Starring: Katarina , Talon
Katarina: Issue 2
Starring: Arrika , Jarvan III , Katarina , Lux , Marcus Du Couteau
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Sylas , Talon
Katarina: Issue 5
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Marcus Du Couteau , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Garen , Jarvan III , LeBlanc , Lux , Mordekaiser , Soreana Du Couteau , Sylas , Talon
The Sinister Blade
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Katarina
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Marcus Du Couteau , Soreana Du Couteau , Talon
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
The Blade-Dancing Immortal
By Numerous creators
Starring: Irelia , Talon
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Demacia Needs Heroes
She is a new kind of hero, one of new mind and new method. One who can go where armies cannot reach, where swords cannot clash.
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan IV , Talon
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Taric is host to the Aspect of the Protector, wielding incredible power as Runeterra's guardian of life, love, and beauty. Shamed by a dereliction of duty and exiled from his homeland of Demacia , Taric climbed Mount Targon to find redemption, only to discover a higher calling among the stars. Imbued with the might of a celestial being, the “Shield of Valoran” now stands ever vigilant, against any who would threaten the people of this world.
Taric was born in Demacia , to a family with a long history of military service. Although his personal interests did not align with those of his family, he did not shirk this tradition, joining the ranks of the Demacian army and slowly working his way through the ranks, even fighting alongside a young Garen Crownguard . But whenever he had the chance, he found ways to explore the world around him, reminding himself of why the Demacian army fought, celebrating the small things in life such as art. Though he possessed great martial skill, he was also known for his charm and wit, and for doing much to help those in need, even volunteering with the Illuminators .
Continuing to rise through the ranks, he even became a part of the Dauntless Vanguard, something that would prove to be difficult for Taric. No longer could he wander the streets and rejoice in the small moments, but instead he was held to far higher standards, something which he struggled with, fearing he was losing himself. Upon the urging of Garen, and to avoid demotion within the Demacian army, he was sent to be a second to the Sword-Captain of the Vanguard.
One fateful night, the sword-captain and his troops were set upon by an unknown force, leaving Taric as the sole survivor. Rumors abounded that Taric had abandoned his post in favour of exploring the ruins of a nearby ruined temple, and according to Demacian law he faced death for his desertion. Garen, as a friend of Taric, instead sentenced him to undergo "the Crown of Stone", a Demacian punishment that involved climbing the slopes of Mount Targon , a task few had done and survived.
Though Garen had sentenced Taric to this fate as a means of sparing him and allowing him to start a life outside of Demacia, Taric saw it as an opportunity to atone for his actions, and set out to climb the mountain.
Taric is the assigned protector of the entire planet and all that resides on it. He is willing to wade right through two armies to defend a flower, simply because it is the last of its kind. Likewise, Taric climbed Mount Targon seeking redemption for failing his men, and even his new role as the Aspect of Protection has hints of making amends.
Garen was Taric's lifelong friend. His nobility status allowed him to keep Taric safe from being accused of high treason and executed. But even Garen (who still believed in Taric but deep down thought he was wasting his talents by fooling around) turned on Taric after Voidborn killed the Shield of Valoran's men, resulting in his banishment and sentence to the Crown of Stone by the Might of Demacia himself.
Based on Sona's in-game voice lines, she has met Taric before his exile.
Taric appreciates the beauty in all things ( music , life ). His role as Aspect of the Protector, and especially past experiences, have made The Void his enemy.
The Shield of Valoran
By George Krstic
Starring: Taric
Mentioned: Garen
To ascend the Mountain, I had to let go...
By Numerous creators
An exiled soldier ascends Mount Targon to find redemption, only to discover a higher calling.
Short Story
The Face in Her Stars
By Rowan Noel Williams
Starring: Taric , Tyari
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
The Uninvited Guest
I look out across the once-verdant field, now scarred and ruined by the toil of battle.
Call of the Mountain (Video)
The mountain calls. Will you answer?
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Illi , Inviolus Vox , Leona
Mentioned: Taric
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
By Graham McNeill
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Teemo is the fearless leader of the Bandle Scouts—a group of intrepid yordles dedicated to exploring Runeterra and learning about the great big world. He ventures far and wide, completing challenges to earn merit badges, writing new rules to add to the ever-growing Bandle Scout Handbook, and leaving exploding mushrooms around as a surprise gift for new friends. As a scout leader, nothing bad ever happens when Teemo’s around!
Teemo had humble beginnings as a member of the Bandle Scouts and being the worst creature ever, rising up the ranks with his survival expertise. Travelling across the material realm to obtain Bandle Scout badges, Teemo earned countless achievements throughout his career, which led to him being promoted to the Bandle Scouts' new leader. His diligence and enthusiasm inspired other yordles to join the Bandle Scouts, with his leadership garnering awe across Runeterra.
Teemo is a short yordle with beige fur and brown markings on his eyes, which are always seen closed. He wears khaki gloves and boots, a furry red scarf, a telescope around his neck and his signature hat with red goggles on top. He carries a backpack which holds maps almost the same size as his body. He wields a blowgun with red, blue and yellow feathers tied to it.
A firm upholder of the Bandle Scouts' ideals, Teemo is always full of energy and holds dedication towards his scouting duties. As a role model among the Bandle Scouts and his fellow yordles, Teemo is welcoming towards new recruits and regularly documents his findings as well as the Bandle Scout rules, which he often updates whenever he makes up new ones. He usually has a calm, optimistic mood and is composed at all times.
Teemo and Tristana have a strong bond, with him considering her to be an important figure in his life. Whether their relationship is romantic or not is open to interpretation. [ 1 ]
Teemo shows respect towards Kled and is able to memorize his full title, though he expresses bewilderment towards the idea of the Bandle Scouts.
Teemo is friends with Corki , Lulu and Kennen .
During one of his mission in Bilgewater , Teemo was captured by Graves to earn bounty for Yordles, while Twisted Fate did not interfere. He would later be saved by Corki , Lulu and Tristana .
As seen briefly in his journal, Teemo may know about Viego .
The Swift Scout
By River 'TenPaces' Jaffe , Elan 'Qulani' Stimmel
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Ava , Corki , Kled , Tristana
Short Story
A Bandle Scout Mission Journal
By Numerous creators
Another Bandle Scout mission badge complete.
Mentioned: Corki , Kennen , Lulu , Tristana , Von Yipp
A Curious Journey (Video)
As our journey comes to an end, Ava races home to save the Bandlewood Festival—but will she make it in time?
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Gnar , Teemo , Yuumi
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Beyond the Garden
With the arrival of the Spirit Blossom Festival, a magical fawn musters the courage to venture out and uncover the mystery behind her ailing forest.
Starring: Lillia
Mentioned: Kindred , Riven , Teemo
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Dominion (Video)
Starring: Cassiopeia , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Lux , Malphite , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Ryze , Swain , Teemo
Music Video
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Sadistic and cunning, Thresh is an ambitious and restless spirit of the Shadow Isles . Once the custodian of countless arcane secrets, he sought a power greater than life or death, and now sustains himself by tormenting and breaking others with slow, excruciating inventiveness. His victims suffer far beyond their brief mortal coil as Thresh wreaks agony upon their souls, imprisoning them in his unholy lantern to torture for all eternity.
The wraith Thresh was born in the Blessed Isles as Erlok Grael, a monk of Helia . He served in the order for many years, expecting to be recognized among Helia's masters, but due to his humble background he was delegated to work as a warden to safeguard Helia's magical artifacts which he took as an insult. Grael felt bitter towards his new position as he believed himself more gifted than his noble-born peers who got more prestigious roles, and that his lowly position would stop him from being recognized. [ 1 ] After years of working in the vault, Grael grew bitter and cruel. Growing frustrated over his fellow wardens getting killed by the artifacts, he took interest in a nameless tome claimed to whisper one's darkest thoughts. Grael kept the tome in his possession, but his superior, Head Warden Rastofir, stopped him and threatened to demote him. Angered, he believed that Rastofir was trying to steal his research for his own benefit, so he arranged Rastofir to be killed by a miscategorized artifact so he could manipulate the order into a pragmatic direction. [ 2 ]
One day, a fleet of ships from Camavor invaded the Blessed Isles, led by their king Viego whom wanted to use the Waters of Life to resurrect his wife Isolde . When the monks refused, Hecarim and his knights took the opportunity to slaughter the monks and all of the natives. Grael delighted in the carnage and suffering that ensued, and took it upon himself to lead Viego to the Waters of Life. Isolde's resurrection failed and caused a blast of magic that corrupted the Blessed Isles' protective mist into the Black Mist, turning all of the inhabitants into wraiths . Grael embraced his transformation and took on the moniker Thresh, eager to act out his desires for cruelty without punishment or the limits of mortality. As decades passed, Thresh's spectral form morphed into a reflection of his darkest traits. He roamed the Shadow Isles killing people and imprisoning their souls within his lantern, becoming known in the folklore of Runeterra as a bogeyman figure.
Many years later, Thresh encountered Lucian and Senna , a married couple of Sentinels of Light , in a forbidden Helian vault in search of a cure for the latter's curse. Overzealous in his goal to save Senna, Lucian refused to turn back, but his decision cost him Senna's life as she sacrificed herself to save him from an oncoming attack from Thresh. The wraith trapped her soul in his lantern, with Lucian spending years battling his arch-enemy, all while Thresh taunted him by holding Senna's soul ransom.
Eventually, Lucian was able to set Senna's soul free by blasting Thresh's lantern open. While he expected the souls to pass on, Senna re-emerged with her newfound ability to control the Black Mist. Though Thresh was defeated, he decided to let them have their victory as he would toy with them in the future.
As a human, Thresh was a fair-skinned man with a long, bony face and dark brown hair and eyes. After being unbound, he can still assume a human disguise, but with green eyes.
As a wraith, Thresh's head became a twisted approximation of a human skull, floating, fanged, wrapped in green flame, and with three skeletal appendages attached like hair. His clothes were dark blue, extremely tattered, and lined with bones. Most notably, he wore a large overcoat with a flared, oversized collar. He wore black armor on his feet and hands, but his clawed gauntlets glowed a spectral green. He carried a short-handled scythe in his right hand and was known to levitate his lantern with the left hand. The lantern, also seeming to be constructed from bones, glowed and swirled from the souls within. Both implements were attached to chains fashioned from bones. A pair of keys dangled from the front of his belt.
After becoming unbound, his appearance changed once again. He now appears as a pale human with glowing green eyes. Dark symbols appear tattooed onto his forehead and cheeks. His hair features three long pony tails in the same fashion as the once-present skeletal appendages on his head. His clothes are an elegant, black and gold regalia. The chains he carries are golden metal rather than skeletal. His lantern appears to be a large, teal crystal encased in a golden frame. Still, he glows with an ominous green light.
As a human, Grael dedicated his work to becoming recognized throughout Helia, but was narcissistic and spiteful, seeing himself as being worthy of recognition. He believed himself to be perfect and felt bitter towards anyone who stopped his goals, to the point where he had no problem in causing the deaths of his fellow monks to develop his own progress. Observers described Grael as being unsettling and having darkness within his mind.
After becoming Thresh, he embraced his true cruelty and hatred without anyone to stop him. He is a psychopathic sadist who delights in making others suffer even after death, by tearing out his victims' souls and leaving them to suffer within his lantern, even mocking his victims' loved ones. He enjoys antagonizing Lucian the most, after imprisoning the soul of his wife Senna and taunting Lucian with Senna's soul on ransom. When Senna escaped, Thresh decided to let them win so he could torment them in the future. Thresh is also known for manipulating others for his own gain, such as influencing Viego after reviving him so the deaths he caused would empower Thresh to become unbound, freeing him from his perpetual imprisonment in the Shadow Isles and granting him the power to move around Runeterra. Adopting new human form, Thresh travelled to Noxus where he met Bort. A luckless waiter in a Noxian Inn who had been cursed with a crustacean arm after trying to steal from a mage and consequently was abused and ridiculed by fellow staff and customers alike for his clumsiness and unfortunate condition. Sensing potential in Bort, Thresh murdered all those who had previously mocked him and offered to free Bort from his deformity. Gladly accepting the offer, Bort became Thresh's Phantom carriage driver. Now in command of those who had tormented him, Bort whips and taunts the trapped souls who pull Thresh's carriage as Thresh himself travels deeper into Noxus.
Thresh was a member of the Brotherhood of Dusk located in the heart of the Blessed Isles, turned undead when the Ruination of Helia struck. Thresh was directly responsible for the Ruination of the Blessed Isles, as he was the one who led Viego to the Waters of Life.
Between conspiring against him with Gangplank and letting Senna's soul escape his lantern, Thresh fell out of favor with Viego. In turn, Thresh plotted against Viego and siphoned the excess Black Mist he was producing, in order to become unbound from the Shadow Isles.
Thresh tricked Lucian's wife Senna , claiming her soul and storing it in his lantern . Lucian traveled to Bilgewater in pursuit of the Harrowing to locate Thresh. It was then he found out Senna's soul is trapped inside the Chain Warden's lantern . Lucian continued to pursue the Mist to free her and finally succeeded .
Thresh made a deal with Lucian for the vital information that may help him save Senna . After becoming unbound from the mist with Viego being defeated, Thresh came to the Sentinels of Light for the soul promised by the deal, but they managed to escape. Thresh now plots to capture the escaping Sentinels.
Lucian and Senna are now dedicated to hunting Thresh.
Thresh clashed with Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , and Yasuo in Ruined King , when they sailed to the Shadow Isles to try and stop him and Gangplank from unleashing Viego.
Thresh and Gangplank woke Viego up from his slumber, in order to use his power to conquer Bilgewater.
Thresh tried to persuade Ledros to give up trying to free Kalista and has succeeded at obtaining his silver pendant which Ledros may use to remind Kalista of her humanity.
The Chain Warden
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Thresh
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Viego
A Night at the Inn
Now unbound from the Black Mist, Thresh is free to roam wherever he likes—reaping poor souls all along the way.
Dark Passage
This ends now.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh
Short Story
By Phillip Vargas
Lucian sat on a hilltop beneath the shadow of a large banyan tree and scanned the valley below.
None Escape
A Buhru priestess and her acolyte son brave the perils of the Black Mist, to renew the magical wards surrounding the Shadow Isles… but come face to face with a truly enduring foe.
RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey (Wild Rift)
Kalista drives fear and spears into the hearts of all who oppose her, but she wasn't always as a wraith of the Shadow Isles. Come learn her tragic story in League of Legends: Wild Rift special RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey event.
Starring: Hecarim , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Jenda'kaya , Necrit , Soraka , Tyrus , Vennix
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
Ruination (Novel)
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 51 Minute Read
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Four
By Graham McNeill
She is not Dead, Strange Bedfellows, In Motion Again
Starring: Hecarim , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Nagakabouros , Senna
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Three
The Purifier, City of the Dead, Sanctuary
Starring: Hecarim , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen , Thresh
Mentioned: Gangplank , Senna
Shadow's Embrace
Those trapped in darkness need light the most.
Steadfast Heart: Issue 1
By Ian St. Martin
Separated by a millennium, personal tragedy draws Viego and Lucian to islands shrouded in mist and mystery.
Starring: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 2
Viego and Lucian grapple with losing the loves of their lives. Will either find peace, or only ruin?
Steadfast Heart: Issue 3
As Ruination spreads across Runeterra, the Sentinels begin a quest for allies.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 5
Senna trains the new Sentinels of Light, as Lucian searches for the wielder of a legendary weapon in Shurima. Meanwhile, the Ruined King gains allies of his own.
Starring: Akshan , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde , Senna
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Collection
By Rayla Heide
A horrible scraping of metal chains drifted over the fields. Outside, an unnatural fog rendered the moon and stars all but invisible, and the regular hum of insects fell silent.
The Echoes Left Behind
Blood pooled beneath him, bright crimson against pristine white stone. His sword lay nearby, its blade broken. His killers stood around him, shadows on the periphery, but he saw nothing except her.
Starring: Kalista , Ledros , Thresh
Mentioned: Hecarim , Ryze , Viego
No One Lives
Icy waves crashed on the bleak shore, red with the blood of the men Hecarim had already butchered. The mortals he had yet to kill were retreating over the beach in terror. Black rain doused them and stormclouds boiled in from the mourning heart of the island. He heard them shouting to one another. The words were a guttural battle-cant he did not recognize, but the meaning was clear; they actually thought they might live to reach their ship. True, they had some skill. They moved as one, wooden shields interlocked. But they were mortal and Hecarim savored the meat-stink of their fear.
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Thresh , Viego
Senna woke with a gasp, her breath pluming in the frigid night.
Starring: Lucian , Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Thresh , Viego
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter One
Blood on the Streets, Glory in Death, Down to the Bearded Lady/nThe Butcher Blades had hung the Jackdaw from a rusted marlinspike through his jawbone and left him for the quayside scavengers. This was the seventeenth murdered ganger the hooded man had seen tonight.
Starring: Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Rafen
Mentioned: Gangplank , Illaoi , Senna , Thresh
Shadow and Fortune: Chapter Two
Something Stupid, The Red Shroud, The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Hecarim , Morgana , Senna , Tahm Kench , Thresh
Shadows and Reflections
The Purifier Remembers
Starring: Lucian
Mentioned: Senna , Thresh
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
The Purifier
By Devon Giehl
The Redeemer
By David Slagle
Starring: Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Isolde , Kalista , Thresh , Viego
The Voices of the Dead
There's a saying on my island. “ Only through stealing our breath can the wind speak .” You want me to describe the Black Mist that greeted me when I first arrived in the Ionian village, hood raised, relic cannon on my back?
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
A New Devil's In Town
Starring: Lucian , Thresh
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Lunar Extravaganza (Wild Rift)
The Lunar New Year is here, and it's time to celebrate! Help prepare for the festivities and join in by lighting lanterns and sending (and receiving!) red envelopes in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Extravaganza!
Starring: Aatrox , Graves , Thresh , Zeri , Zyra
Nothing Escapes
Solo Darius
It's easy crushing top lane when you're SoloRenektonOnly. It’s On.
Starring: Darius , Kayn , Thresh , Vi
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
We're Taking Over.
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
With Hell Before Them
June 7th, 1868
Starring: Ashe , Darius , Hecarim
Mentioned: Lucian , Thresh
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
While many other yordles channel their energy into discovery, invention, or just plain mischief-making, Tristana was always inspired by the adventures of great warriors. She had heard much about Runeterra , its factions, and its wars, and believed her kind could become worthy of legend too. Setting foot in the world for the first time, she took up her trusty cannon Boomer, and now leaps into battle with steadfast courage and optimism.
Like most yordles, Tristana was always fascinated by the world beyond Bandle City. She traveled far and wide, full of wonder and enthusiasm for the varied places, people, and creatures she encountered. Using the hidden pathways that only yordles know, she explored the length and breadth of the material realm, remaining mostly unseen.
She witnessed such breathtaking sights as ice trolls migrating across the floes of the far north beneath kaleidoscopic auroras. She marveled as warships blasted each other to pieces in naval battles that churned the seas. She watched, awestruck, as great armies marched with unity and precision—incredibly strange concepts to a yordle!—across the endless sands to the south.
But Tristana’s carefree, wandering ways changed the day she witnessed the destruction of a bandlewood. These places are steeped in the magic of the gateways they grow around, giving yordles a safe haven from the world. Tristana, dozing in the dappled sunshine, was shaken awake as the trees around her began to burn and topple. A warband of armored marauders rampaged through the woodland with fire and axes, led by a sorcerer wreathed in dark energy.
Tristana hid in horror. The sorcerer focused his power upon the portal at the heart of the bandlewood, speaking one final utterance. Her ears still ringing with pain, Tristana watched the gateway collapse, never to be opened again. The ripples of that destruction were felt in Bandle City itself, causing great despair among the yordles.
Tristana had never experienced anything like the pain of this loss, or the guilt she felt for not acting. Never again would she allow such a terrible thing to happen. In that moment, she dedicated herself to become the guardian of all bandlewoods, and her fellow yordles.
Tristana had often marveled at how mortals protected the things that were dear to them. While she couldn’t comprehend their reasons to guard shiny metals, or walls of stone, she respected their methods, and decided to emulate them. Other yordles watched with curiosity as she took to marching around the borders of Bandle City stern-faced, and watching out for danger. She started calling her food “rations”, and set herself strict times for rest and relaxation.
But something was missing. In her travels, she had seen many powerful inventions, including the black powder cannons of Bilgewater. Inspired by them, she collected enough precious metal discs to commission a gun suited to her diminutive size.
With a wry smile, she named it Boomer.
Since then,Tristana has defended the bandlewoods from innumerable threats. In the jungles of the Serpent Isles, she intervened in a clash between the local Buhru people and treasure hunters from Valoran that was getting too close to a hidden portal, sending them all running for their lives after she leapt into their midst, Boomer roaring. And in the burning deserts at the edge of Shurima, she destroyed a Void-horror after it began consuming a secret bandlewood oasis, killing it with an explosive bomb down the gullet.
Tristana has become something of a legend in Bandle City, and recently, a number of yordles have started to imitate her, trying—and mostly failing—to copy her disciplined ways. Some have even had weapons mimicking Boomer constructed for them by the scrappy inventor Rumble, who is always seeking to win Tristana’s approval. While Tristana finds this all rather embarrassing, she has come to the conclusion that if they are going to defend the pathways to Bandle City, they had better do it properly. As such, she has started training these new recruits, and they have adopted a new moniker—the Bandle Gunners.
Nevertheless, Tristana can often be found out in the wilds on patrol by herself—simultaneously protecting the bandlewoods and also getting away from her new, and rather annoying, trainees.
Tristana has a very rowdy and impulsive personality. She's very excitable (especially when it comes to fighting) and more often than not tends to act without much forethought, in spite of how much she truly means well. One of Tristana's most defining traits is her ambition towards becoming a hero and creating her own adventure, being the reason why she became the feisty and strong-willed powerhouse she is today in the first place. Tristana is also incredibly selfless in spite of how scatterbrained and wacky she is otherwise, as she has protected Bandle City's gateways from mortals of Runeterra to the point of inspiring other yordles to protect the city as well.
Tristana, Teemo , Lulu and Corki are friends. Tristana finds Lulu to be quite a handful and bothersome yordle. Rumble has an obvious (named his mech 'Tristy') crush on her.
Draven had encountered both Lulu and Tristana , fought and fled from them during his return trip from Basilich to Noxus Prime.
Graves captured Teemo for the bounty on yordles while Twisted Fate refuses because "messing with Yordles brings a whole heap of trouble." Corki , Lulu and Tristana fought Graves when trying to save Teemo, which ended up in Graves being turned into a frog and the Yordles escaping.
The Yordle Gunner
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Tristana
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
A Quiet Night
By Graham McNeill
The fire was crackling away nicely, spreading a warm glow throughout the forest clearing. Tristana lay on her back with her head pillowed on her pack, watching a comet streak across the starlit sky. The winking lights glittered prettily through a swaying canopy of birch and oak leaves. The humans liked to name the patterns in the stars – she'd seen some in an old book in Heimerdinger's laboratory – but she decided it would be more fun to give them names of her own invention.
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story
The Whispering Doodad
“Here, doodad,” she whispers to the grass. “Pretty please, with sprinkles on top! I'll let you take us somewhere you want to go next.” The doodad—or whatever it's really called—doesn't respond, but I sense it rolling away from Lulu. Well, not really rolling, as such, more making itself be where she isn't.
Starring: Draven , Lulu , Tamara , Tristana
Mentioned: Darius , Heimerdinger , Janna , Poppy
A Bandle Scout Mission Journal
By Numerous creators
Another Bandle Scout mission badge complete.
Starring: Teemo
Mentioned: Corki , Kennen , Lulu , Tristana , Von Yipp
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
The Swift Scout
By River 'TenPaces' Jaffe , Elan 'Qulani' Stimmel
Mentioned: Ava , Corki , Kled , Tristana
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Wandering Spirits
Maybe this is the year. Sett leaves home once again to find his akana father, the Spirit of Abandonment. Will the spirits along the path lead him away? Or will he finally find the way back to his mother?
Starring: Sett
Mentioned: Master Yi , Syndra , Tristana
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Trundle is a hulking and devious troll with a particularly vicious streak, and there is nothing he cannot bludgeon into submission—not even the Freljord itself. Fiercely territorial, he chases down anyone foolish enough to enter his domain. Then, his massive club of True Ice at the ready, he chills his enemies to the bone and impales them with jagged, frozen pillars, laughing as they bleed out onto the tundra.
Trundle is a hulking behemoth of a troll, appearing to humans as a giant. He has rugged, light blue skin, glowing blue eyes, and a flare of swept-back red hair. He also has a medium-length beard with no mustache. Like other trolls, he has three digits on each limb, pointed ears, and several upward-pointing tusks on his lower jaw.
He usually wears simple, tribal attire: a loin cloth strapped to a shoulder pad and bracers on his forearms and shins. His clothes are brown leather and lined with pale fur, sometimes decorated with red cloth or blue metal plates. Trundle's club, Boneshiver, is a massive cudgel of jagged, blunt True Ice .
Trundle is straightforwardly aggressive and antagonistic. Ambitious and power-hungry, he is the self-proclaimed king of all frost trolls. While he may seem brutish to humans, he is quite clever by troll standards.
Trundle managed to form an alliance with Lissandra . His True Ice club ("Boneshiver") was originally Lissandra's . In exchange for it, Trundle agreed to muster a troll army to fight alongside the Frostguard.
In his search for the world runes, Ryze confronted Trundle and his trolls.
Legends of Runeterra cards suggest Ashe's Avarosan and Trundle's trolls are in direct conflict which has resulted in a number of loss for the Avarosan. For that reason, Ashe wants the race to be exterminated.
The Troll King
By Laurie Goulding
Starring: Trundle
Mentioned: Lissandra
Short Story
A Feast Fit for a King
By Graham McNeill
A hulking figure trudged through the waist-deep snow of the canyon, lumbering uphill with a purposeful gait that dared the blizzard to stop him.
Call of Power
Ryze scours Runeterra for fragments of a forgotten past, each step bringing him closer to incredible power—and terrible ruin.
Starring: Ryze
Mentioned: Miss Fortune , Nasus , Sona , Trundle
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
By David Slagle
I wake up suddenly, like a story that starts in the middle of the action.
Starring: Nunu , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Trundle
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
By Riot Paradox
Starring: Evelynn , Trundle , Twitch , Volibear
Mentioned: Irelia
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Journey Into The Freljord
By Unknown Author
Starring: Quinn , Valor
Mentioned: Ashe , Jarvan IV , Lissandra , Trundle
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
By Numerous creators
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Fueled by unbridled fury and rage, Tryndamere once carved his way through the Freljord , openly challenging the greatest warriors of the north to prepare himself for even darker days ahead. The wrathful barbarian has long sought revenge for the annihilation of his clan, though more recently he has found companionship with Ashe , the Avarosan warmother, and a home with her people. His almost inhuman strength and fortitude is legendary, and has delivered him and his new allies countless victories against the greatest of odds.
Tryndamere was part of a nameless barbarian tribe known for their stamina and prowess in combat, which forged blades based on their god's tusks. They fought raiding tribes, the beasts of the mountains and Noxian armies trying to claim territory in the Freljord. As he grew up among his tribe, Tryndamere developed into a strong warrior.
One night, the tribe witnessed an unnatural storm from the east, where the darkin Aatrox stood before them. Some of the barbarians bowed to him under the belief that he was their Boar God , but he slaughtered them all. Filled with rage, Tryndamere charged at Aatrox, but was swatted away. As he lay on the verge of death, he was revived by a rage he never felt before, his willpower and thirst for vengeance preventing him from dying.
Tryndamere found his tribe's last remaining survivors, knowing they were doomed with enemies surrounding them throughout the Freljord. Hearing rumors of a tribe which worshipped the reincarnation of Avarosa, they set off to the west where they met the Avarosan . Eager to gain respect among the tribe, he challenged the Avarosans to duels. However, they began to fear him due to his savage, furious way of fighting and how his wounds regenerated faster the more rage he held. In one duel he was so lost in his fury that he was on the verge of killing his opponent, but Braum , an Iceborn allied with the Avarosan, stood in the way with his shield. Tryndamere kept attacking Braum's unbreakable shield until his rage subsided, and the two eventually became friends. Afterward, the tribe's survivors were welcomed into the Avarosan and Tryndamere was arranged to form a political marriage with the Avarosan warmother, Ashe , but the two slowly grew into a genuine relationship.
Tryndamere wears heavy, dark armor that covers his lower body, forearms, and parts of his chest. The armor has a textured, almost metallic look, with sharp, angular edges and layered plating that resembles dragon scales or ancient, battle-worn gear. The dominant colors are black, silver, and teal, giving the armor an ominous, magical appearance. There are glowing accents in the teal hue. His upper body is mostly bare, showcasing his muscular, well-defined physique. There is a band of leather or metal across his chest, connected to the shoulder armor. His skin tone is pale, contrasting sharply with the dark and heavy armor pieces. Tryndamere wears a helmet with large, curved horns that extend outward and upward. The helmet is designed with sharp lines and patterns. His face is mostly obscured by the helmet, but his eyes are intense, and his facial expression looks serious or stern. He has long, flowing black hair that cascades down his back. He wears a gauntlet on his left arm, which are heavily armored, and his hands are partially covered.
Ashe and Tryndamere are Bloodsworn, a political marriage, but the two eventually developed genuine affection for one another. Tryndamere originally married Ashe in exchange for the protection of his remaining tribe after Aatrox's massacre. All of this is, in turn, an inside reference at Riot. The name of Riot's co-founder Marc 'Tryndamere' Merrill's wife is Ashley .
Tryndamere's nemesis is Aatrox , who is the main reason why most of Tryndamere's tribe was destroyed.
Braum stopped Tryndamere when he lost control trying to prove his worth to Ashe . It's rumored that Braum introduced him to Ashe.
He is hostile towards the Winter's Claw, who disdainfully lumped him into the Avarosa's "decadent lifestyle" even though Tryndamere actually originated from another hardy nomadic tribe, much like Sejuani .
The Barbarian King
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Tryndamere
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ashe
Short Story
A Smoldering Coal
By Roy Graham
This far north, the nights are dark. The shadows grow long in the hall of Ashe and her bloodsworn groom. The braziers burn down to smoldering coals. They may seem extinguished, dead—but even a fool knows not to grasp one with a naked hand. Even a fool.
Mentioned: Ashe
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
The Frost Archer
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Ashe
Mentioned: Grena , Sejuani , Tryndamere
The Heart of the Freljord
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Starring: Braum
Mentioned: Ashe , Tryndamere
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Never Surrender
Inspired by the triumphant return of Gordon Hayward, Tryndamere main and superstar NBA small forward. It's On.
Starring: Aatrox , Tryndamere
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Crystal Quest: Series 2
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Twisted Fate is an infamous cardshark and swindler who has gambled and charmed his way across much of the known world, earning the enmity and admiration of the rich and foolish alike. He rarely takes things seriously, greeting each day with a mocking smile and an insouciant swagger. In every possible way, Twisted Fate always has an ace up his sleeve.
Born to the nomadic river folk of the Serpentine Delta, Tobias Felix quickly learned what it was to be an outsider. Tolerated for the exotic goods they peddled, but shunned for their strange traditions, his people found only short welcomes wherever they berthed their colorful river barques. His elders would shrug, and say this was just the way of the world, but the obvious prejudice always stuck in Tobias' craw.
He found his true calling in the gambling tents, between games of chance and skill like Mortwheel and Stabberscotch, when he first picked up a deck of playing cards. Many years earlier, his superstitious grandfather had shown him how to read omens in the shuffle and cut, while his aunt had later taught him how to read all an opponent's tells. Between the two, Tobias took to the high-stakes game of Krakenhand like an old master. He could almost feel each card's place in the deck, and follow their movements through each successive hand. He was often accused of cheating, but it was difficult for anyone to explain exactly how.
Finally, one night, a group of men who'd lost their fortunes to young Tobias returned in the dead of night to settle the score. They came bearing cudgels and, emboldened by cheap rotgut, went from tent to tent in their search for him, beating down any of the river folk who got in their way. Fearing for his life, Tobias turned and fled into the darkness.
When dawn came, the lad sheepishly crept back to find his people breaking down the camp. No one would look him in the eye. He had thought only of himself and left others to face the consequences of his actions.
Though he begged and pleaded with them all, Tobias was exiled for what he had done. With his whole world falling apart around him, he watched helplessly as the barques left, leaving him alone on the riverbank with nothing but his grandfather's worn deck of cards clutched in his hands.
He grew to manhood as a drifter, trawling the gambling halls of every settlement he came to, using his preternatural skill to earn enough coin to survive. That Tobias was able to relieve the boastful, the arrogant, and the cruel of their cash was just an added bonus—though he was always careful to let his marks win at least a few hands, here and there.
Across one table, he met a deplorable fellow named Malcolm Graves.
Each recognizing a kindred soul, Tobias and Graves quickly joined forces. On the southern borderlands of Valoran , they set two renowned noble houses of Noxus at each other’s throats as cover for the rescue of a kidnapped heir. That they pocketed the reward money, only to ransom the vile young man to the highest bidder, should really have come as no surprise to their original employer. In Piltover , they still hold the distinction of being the only thieves ever to crack the supposedly impenetrable Clockwork Vault. Not only did the pair empty the vault of all its treasures, they also tricked the guards into loading the loot onto their hijacked schooner, for a quick getaway through the Sun Gates.
In almost every case, only once they and their accomplices were safely over the horizon were their crimes even discovered—usually along with one of Twisted Fate’s trademark calling cards left where it would be easily found.
With every con, swindle, and heist, Tobias felt the pull of the cards growing stronger, and he knew it was more than mere gambler's luck that guided him. His people had always waved away concerns over primitive magic and “cartomancy”, but now Tobias began to seek out ever more dangerous means to bend the cards to his will.
That search ended badly Graves was taken alive and sent into The Locker while Tobias and the rest of the crew ran free. Though he tried to break Graves out, he failed. Instead, seeking to begin again, he returned his birth name to the river's waters and took another: Twisted Fate.
In the years after, Twisted Fate continued conning people solo, one-time evading capture by Miss Fortune. She would later hire him by proxy to sneak into Gangplank’s warehouse to steal and return a Crimson-Coil dagger, where he would reunite with Graves, who broke out from The Locker and was tipped off by the Bounty Hunter herself about Twisted Fate presence.
Flamed with rage at his partner's apparent betrayal, Graves started shooting at Tobias in an effort to settle the score with him. With Gangplank's warehouse burning and with the pirate captain's thugs swarming, the resolution of Graves' and Twisted Fate's long-simmering feud threatens to engulf the entire city in flames. Informed by the destruction of his warehouse, Gangplank set off the catch both of the perpetrators of this act.
Both Graves and Twisted Fate tried to flee from the wrath of the Pirate King but with no success. Gangplank tortured them until he tried to publicly execute them in front of the whole city for their misbehavior. Hearing the news of this event, Sarah Fortune's plans set in motion and along with her crew, started to make preparations to blow up Gangplank’s flagship so all Bilgewater could witness the death of their Reaver King.
Graves managed to hide one of Twisted Fate's cards, snatched during their previous fight around the city, from the pirate thugs, and so, Twisted Fate breaks free but Graves gets dragged to the bottom of the ocean. Twisted Fate then jumps after him and saves Graves from drowning but almost dies in the process. Graves manages to save Twisted Fate and after they successfully survive the explosion, both men settled their dispute and resolve to pick up their joint hustling.
As Graves had lost his shotgun Destiny, they head to Piltover so he can get a new one. Even though Graves and Twisted Fate are tempted to reconcile their relationship, both know it may take a while for Graves to completely trust Twisted Fate again, still, the latter is happy to have his old friend back.
After running jobs in Piltover and Zaun for a while, they go back to Bilgewater in search of the Abyssal Crown. Along with the story, Twisted Fate actively tries to regain Graves' trust, staying despite the danger and giving the Crown to Graves since the latter still keeps some distance from him.
They end up angering a sea witch in the process. Later on Miss Fortune springs a trap for Twisted Fate and Graves. Despite the latter's success in cornering her, she manages to trap them and hand them to the sea witch in exchange for her quartermaster. In the end, she helps Twisted Fate and Graves escape as well.
Twisted Fate is described as a tall, handsome male with tanned skin, trimmed beard and long dark hair. He's got sharp features and a strong jaw. He is usually depicted wearing a dandy wide-brimmed hat with golden ornaments along with a long black coat, a salmon vest, and a white button-up shirt with black tight pants and boots. Although he wears his hair loosely, in the Double-Double Cross cinematic he has shorter hair kept in a small ponytail and doesn’t wear his jacket.
His eye color remains inconsistent, being blue in some depictions and brown in others. T.F. also has a Bilgewater-themed tattoo on his right arm seen on his lore-based skin Cutpurse Twisted Fate .
Twisted Fate rarely takes things seriously, greeting each day with a mocking smile and an insouciant swagger. He’s prone to brag and has an overall smug yet charismatic personality. He's an opportunistic and hedonistic person that enjoys the thrill of danger and adventure. However, he does seem to have some roguish honor, since he tends to steal mostly from rich people and it is mentioned that he enjoyed conning arrogant and cruel people, as shown in his short story. Even though he usually appears laid-back and playful, he rarely shows genuine emotions and has tight control of his expressions.
Twisted Fate is analytical and a strategist, being the brains in his partnership with Graves, usually in charge of planning out heists. He’s also superstitious and theatrical, since it’s mentioned he enjoys putting on a show and communicates artistically at times.
He used to have a history of taking off when things started to get complicated but changed his ways after starting to work with Graves once again. Twisted Fate is also a stickler for appearance even having a “concerned face” he only uses when dealing with a really bad hand of cards or when he finds a new stain on his jacket. He’s very protective of his hat, to the point he checks the state of his hat first instead of his broken ribs after falling off a building. Twisted Fate is also plagued by the fact that he's a riverman that can't swim, drowning being his worst nightmare.
Their partnership started when they recognized a kindred soul in one another across a table during a high-stakes game in Mudtown.
They both shared the same reckless passion for danger and adventure, which is what encouraged them to form their partnership. Graves being the brawn, and T.F. being the brains they were an unusually effective team from the outset. Their mutual sense of roguish honor grew into genuine trust, and together they hustled across Valoran.
They were forced apart when a heist went south, with Graves getting sent to The Locker despite Twisted Fate’s efforts to save him. Graves endured years of torture and solitary confinement, during which time he nursed his bitter anger toward his old partner, and, convinced T.F. had betrayed him, Graves was determined to have his revenge.
Graves reunited with T.F. again when Miss Fortune set them up, yet they were forced to put aside their differences in order to escape almost certain death in the ongoing conflict between her and Gangplank. Even though Graves and T.F. were tempted to reconcile their relationship, both knew it may take a while for Graves to completely trust T.F. again, still, the latter was happy to have his old friend back.
However, since Graves still kept some distance from T.F., in the short story Destiny and Fate, T.F. proactively tries to show Graves that he can trust him again. T.F. had a history of taking off when things got ugly and so, T.F. wanted to stay and retrieve the Abyssal Crown even if it meant risking his life so he could prove to Graves that he wouldn't leave him to pick up the pieces anymore. In the same story, when Graves shows up next to T.F. bleeding, the latter notices and expresses his concern, something that Graves actually appreciated even if he didn't say it out loud.
During the Burning Tides events, T.F. jumps after Graves to save him from drowning despite not knowing how to swim and being terrified of drowning himself.
Graves seems to like messing with T.F., particularly by calling him Tobias instead of Twisted Fate insisting the latter is a stupid name, or by splashing him with salt water just to mess with TF's carefully oiled and perfumed hair. Similarly, T.F. usually comes up with clever replies to annoy Graves. Their petty bickering is seen many times like at the end of Burning Tides, Double-double cross, and Destiny and Fate.
In the story "The Boys and Bombolini" it is revealed that both Graves and Twisted Fate have romantic feelings for each other.
After some time, Graves captured Teemo for the bounty on yordles while Twisted Fate refuses because "messing with Yordles brings a whole heap of trouble." Graves then fought Corki , Lulu and Tristana who came to save Teemo, which ended up in Graves being turned into a frog and the Yordles escaping.
The Card Master
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Gangplank , Graves
Short Story • 34 Minute Read
Burning Tides: Act 1
By Alison Hawkes , George Krstic , Anthony Reynolds Lenné , John O'Bryan
The Rat Town slaughter docks; they smell as bad as their name suggests.
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Twisted Fate
Short Story
Burning Tides: Act 2
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
Burning Tides: Act 3
Burning Tides: Epilogue
Starring: Gangplank , Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Destiny and Fate
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Ah, Bilgewater.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Fizz , Gangplank , Rafen
Don't Mess With Yordles
Wanna go cause a ruckus? When Teemo goes missing, Tristana finds plenty of volunteers to help bring him home to Bandle City—in all the ways that only yordles can!
Starring: Corki , Graves , Lulu , Teemo , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
Double Down
All eyes in Fortune's Glory were on Twisted Fate. He felt the gambling hall's many patrons regarding him with a mixture of envy, vicarious excitement, and spiteful longing for him to lose everything on the turn of the last card.
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
Double-Double Cross
Down on the slaughter docks, Miss Fortune springs a trap for wanted criminals Twisted Fate and Graves… but soon finds the tables turned against her.
Starring: Graves , Miss Fortune , Rafen , Twisted Fate
The Boys and Bombolini
By Jared Rosen
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Tales of Runeterra
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Braum , Corki , Darius , Diana , Ekko , Fiora , Garen , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jinx , Leona , Lulu , Miss Fortune , Shen , Teemo , Thresh , Tristana , Twisted Fate
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
By Odin Austin Shafer
Truth Bearer, this is why we must retreat to Buhru. We cannot save the paylangi' the Hierophant said. The heavy-set woman grinned, obviously pleased by the prospect of leaving Bilgewater.
Starring: Gangplank , Illaoi
Mentioned: Graves , Miss Fortune , Nagakabouros , Twisted Fate
Starring: Graves
Mentioned: Gangplank , Twisted Fate
A Twist of Fate
The battle seems decided... until there is a Twist of Fate.
Starring: Annie , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Katarina , Nocturne , Ryze , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
An ancient mystery in Runeterra
By Explorer Ezreal
Starring: Aatrox , Ezreal
Mentioned: Jayce , Lux , Twisted Fate
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Playtime with Gnar: Series 1
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Amumu , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Draven , Karthus , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Malzahar , Nocturne , Nunu , Rengar , Twisted Fate , Willump
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A Zaunite plague rat by birth, but a connoisseur of filth by passion, Twitch is not afraid to get his paws dirty. Aiming a chem-powered crossbow at the gilded heart of Piltover , he has vowed to show those in the city above just how filthy they really are. Always a sneaky sneak, when he's not rooting around in the Sump, he's digging deep into other people's garbage for discarded treasures… and perhaps a moldy sandwich.
Twitch is a disheveled anthropomorphic rat with faded, moss-green fur, a hunched posture, and a prehensile tail. His jagged claws and buck teeth are a dirty, washed-out yellow. He has pink eyes as well as pink skin visible on his nose and the inside of his ears.
His attire is ragged and torn, most notably a green overcoat with the sleeves ripped off. It has a faded gold trim, twin tails, and a wide, flared collar. He has numerous straps and pouches carrying flasks of green poison and other miscellanea. He also wears a cracked pair of goggles. There are rusted metal plates armoring his right arm where he carries his crossbow. The makeshift mechanical crossbow is fastened with a chamber that loads his bolts with green chemicals.
The Plague Rat
By Unknown Author
Starring: Twitch
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
Do Not Engage
By Conor Sheehy
H.I.V.E. Incident Report
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The Day Before Snowdown
Gather ‘round and hear the story of how Winter Wonder Neeko, Snow Man Yi, Winter Wonder Soraka, and Ice King Mundo saved Snowdown from Ice King Twitch in the Snowdown 2018 event in League of Legends.
Starring: Akali , Dr. Mundo , Master Yi , Neeko , Soraka , Twitch
Short Story
By Riot Paradox
Starring: Evelynn , Trundle , Twitch , Volibear
Mentioned: Irelia
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The most powerful spirit walker alive, Udyr communes with all the spirits of the Freljord, whether by empathically understanding their needs, or by channeling and transforming their ethereal energy into his own primal fighting style. He seeks balance within, so that his mind does not get lost amidst others, but he also seeks balance without—for the Freljord's mystical landscape can only thrive with the growth that comes from conflict and struggle, and Udyr knows that sacrifices must be made to keep peaceful stagnance at bay.
Udyr was born under a blood-red moon in the Freljord . At a young age, he had a deep connection to spiritual magic, greater than any spirit walker in history. However, his powers proved to be a curse to the young boy. Unlike other spirit walkers, Udyr was connected to every spirit, hearing their every need and want. Bombarded by their chaotic thoughts, Udyr's parents sought to find a spirit walker to help him master his powers, but each one told them: spirit walker training was focused on opening oneself up, not closing oneself off. One evening, his tribe would be attacked by the Frostguard, minions of the Ice Witch . As they slaughtered his tribemen, Udyr became overwhelmed by grief and anger. For the first time, he tapped into his powers with purpose and unleashed an avalanche that buried the marauders. In the aftermath, Udyr would spend the next several years wandering alone, doing what needed to be done to survive.
On one fateful day, Udyr aided a Winter's Claw hunting party in battling a troublesome wildclaw. Impressed by his power, they brought him back to their warmother, Hejian, who sought to train him alongside her daughter, Kalkia. The two would grow close, with Udyr showing her how to survive in the wild and Kalkia showing him how to live amongst men. When a pack of diseased rimefang wolves attacked the Winter's Claw, Udyr was affected by their madness, becoming lost to their hunger. He blindly attacked the tribe, nearly killing a child, before being restrained by Kalkia and her mother's True Ice. After the wolves had been slain, Hejian banished him from their tribe. Udyr retreated to the mountains, far from anyone he could hurt, and lived in solitude. Kalkia would occasionally visit the spirit walker, until she had to assume the role of warmother. Despite lifting his banishment, Udyr remained in self-imposed exile, but swore to protect Kalkia and those she loved. However, this would be the last time they would see each other.
A monk from Ionia arrived in the Freljord and sought out Udyr to help him master the dragon spirit within him. Udyr refused to aid the monk, but he challenged him for the right to train with him. The two battled until they reached their limits, but neither ended as the victor. The monk finally introduced himself as Lee Sin and noted the battle proved they both had much to learn. Lee Sin invited the spirit walker to return with him to train in Ionia, where they have spent generations training to keep the spirits at peace. With nothing him tying him to the Freljord, Udyr agreed.
Seeing a kindred spirit in the monk, the two would forge a friendship as they traveled to the Hirana Monastery. By the time they reached the Monastery, they found it besieged by Noxian invaders. Udyr and Lee Sin battled the soldiers of Noxus and repelled their assault. After their victory, the two asked the abbott to train them, he agreed, but self-mastery has no guarantee end. The two would spend the next several years at the Hirana Monastery, training with the Shojin Order. During this time, Udyr helped Lee find balance with the dragon spirit and embraced the harmony of the Ionian way of life.
Despite enjoying the tranquility of Ionia, Udyr's powers began to plateau. Deciding to return to the Freljord to continue his growth, he would say goodbye to his friend, but not before he was gifted with one of Lee's blindfolds, a reminder to their commitment to self-mastery. When Udyr returned, he was greeted by a new conflict between the Avarosans and the Winter's Claw. The Avarosans wanted to unite the Freljord under one banner, but Udyr saw that as detrimental to the land's spiritual health, believing that struggle and conflict were needed to keep the Freljord healthy. Instead, he offered his counsel to his old tribe, the Winter's Claw, and was met by Sejuani , the daughter of Kalkia. Despite accepting his aid, Sejuani was weary of Udyr, having heard the stories of his bloodlust and uncontrollable power. He would earn her trust and mentored the young warmother, watching her become a fierce leader, the two becoming as close as father and daughter.
Udyr was eventually called to a meeting by the other spirit walkers. During his journey, he encountered the Seal Sister, disguised as an old woman, who asked for his help in several impossible tasks. Entertained by his futile attempts, she gave him her blessing in the form of salty bread and icy water. When he consumed them, spiritual magic surged through Udyr, causing him to pass out. When he awoke, he felt new power coursing through him and continued his journey south. When Udyr reached the meeting of the spirit walkers, they discussed a strange spiritual shift they had all felt. Fearing the Freljord was dying, Udyr believed the cause to be the Avaroans. Their actions in unifying the Freljord had deprived it of the challenge necessary to sustain its spiritual health. While some were skeptical of his theory, others agreed, and pledged their aid to him and the Winter's Claw.
Growing food shortages in the already barren tundra would force the Winter's Claw to more aggressively expand their territory. Weakened by the famine and not wanting to see more of her tribesmen fall, Sejuani proposed allying themselves with the Ursine of the Volibear . Udyr was called upon to aid in negotiations, but the spirit walker did not trust the Storm Bear or his ilk. Despite his objections, Sejuani remained determined in forging the alliance, and not wanting to see her harmed, Udyr agreed to aid her.
The Winter's Claw summoned the Ursine, led by the Hounded Lord, a former pupil of Udyr. When Sejuani attempted to negotiate with the Hounded Lord, he deferred her to their god, the Volibear, and summoned him to their meeting. Speaking through both Udyr and the Hounded Lord, Volibear questioned what battle would be worthy of his support. Sejuani vowed to raze the southern farms, destroy their settlements, and conquer the Freljord, pleased with these terms the Storm Bear agreed to lend her his strength, if she asked. Udyr tried to object before Sejuani could accept his offer, but was paralyzed by fear. When the Volibear demanded a sacrifice, Udyr instead offered the war and its dead, enraging him. The spirit walker goaded the god into accepting their offer and the Ursine would join the Winter's Claw in their next raid. In the aftermath of the battle, Udyr surveyed the damage inflicted by the Winter's Claw and the Ursine, noting that they were gaining more power. He confronted the avatar of the Volibear and vowed to protect Sejuani and prevent him from taking her.
Some time later, Udyr would take a leave of absence from the Winter's Claw, needing time away from the spirits to strengthen his will.
Udyr has a stocky body shape and is adorned by tattoos of the various Freljordian gods on his body. His fists are wrapped in bandages, with his left hand having a headwrap given to him by Lee Sin . He wears heavy pants with a belt made with prayer beads and open toed shoes.
Udyr is an introspective person, driven by his spiritual powers that grants him a unique understanding of the world. Having grappled with these overwhelming powers since a young age, he embodies a sense of stoic determination and resilience. His demeanor is often calm and reserved, reflecting the solitude he embraced during years of self-imposed exile. Udyr is guided by a sense of duty, particularly towards those he considers family, such as Kalkia and later, Sejuani .
Udyr serves as the shaman for the Winter's Claw and is Sejuani's oathfather. He was once close to Kalkia , Sejuani's mother.
Udyr and Lee Sin formed a friendship after the latter traveled to the Freljord to learn more about spirits. He traveled with Lee Sin back to Ionia in order to learn more about spirits and aided in defending the Hirana monastery from Noxian invaders. Lee Sin gave Udyr the blindfold he adorn on his arm, a reminder of his commitment to self-mastery.
Udyr can harness the power of Freljordian demigods, such as Ornn , Anivia , Volibear , the Seal Sister , and the Iron Boar . Despite harnessing the power of the Great Spirit of the Bear, Udyr does not trust Volibear . He respects his brother Ornn , the Great Spirit of the Ram, far more.
The Spirit Walker
By Dana Luery Shaw
Starring: Udyr
Mentioned: Kalkia , Lee Sin , Sejuani
Short Story
A Walk with the Voices
By Michael Luo
Far above, Udyr heard the cries of an eagle riding the gale.
Silence for the Damned
By Odin Austin Shafer
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Blind Monk
Starring: Lee Sin
Mentioned: Udyr
The Witch Between Worlds
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Aurora
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Spirit Guard (Comic)
By Numerous creators
For though the world may stand against me. I am never truly alone!
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a powerful Noxian headsman, Urgot was betrayed by the empire for which he had killed so many. Bound in iron chains, he was forced to learn the true meaning of strength in the Dredge—a prison mine deep beneath Zaun . Emerging in a disaster that spread chaos throughout the city, he now casts an imposing shadow over its criminal underworld. Raising his victims on the very chains that once enslaved him, he will purge his new home of the unworthy, making it a crucible of pain.
Urgot was born and raised in Noxus . He became a Noxian soldier and high executioner, or headsman, executing enemies of the state and carrying out missions for the Noxian emperor.
During Swain 's uprising, Swain needed a way to keep Urgot out of the Noxian capitol, as he was seen as a threat to Swain's plan. Urgot was subsequently sent to Zaun under the pretense of being sent there in order to eliminate a conspiracy against the emperor of Noxus. Urgot was then captured by Chem-Barons and taken to The Dredge, a chemtech prison mine, to be tortured. However, Urgot proved to be resistant to pain, which scared the mine's warden and enboldened Urgot. Urgot had an epiphany, believing Zaun to be great because of its pain, and proceeded to take control of the prison and plunge it into anarchy.
During his reign over the prison, Urgot convinced his fellow prisoners into following him while killing those who didn't. He removed some of his body parts that he deemed "weak" and replaced them with machinery. Eventually, a Noxian agent arrived in the Dredge. He recognized Urgot and begged him to help him escape, to which Urgot killed him. In doing so, he had another epiphany, believing that it was not strength that ruled Noxus , but men. Believing men to be weak, he decided that he would plunge the world into chaos in order to cull those that he did not find worthy.
Urgot started a riot which ignited a chemtech vein in the prison, destroying it and shaking Zaun. Many prisoners were killed in the explosion, but many more fleed to the Sump. It was in the Sump where he started gaining more and more followers, preparing to strike again.
Shortly after causing the Dredge to explode, Urgot destroyed the Black Lanes, a market at the heart of Zaun. There, he killed people that worked for a man called Chem-Baron Crimson, along with Crimson himself. While killing Crimson, four adolescents that were part of the Sump Riders gang arrived in the Lanes and saw what was happening. Three of the adolescents died from inhaling toxic fog while Urgot explained to the fourth how all of the men who died, including Chem-Baron Crimson, controlled the city with fear and deserved to die. He let the fourth kid escape, telling him to spread the message about what had happened there.
A messenger chosen by Urgot, known as The Voice, had been giving speeches and sermons promoting discontent and anger in the Sumps, The Voice preached about a figure he called 'The Dreadnought' and claimed that he would enact justice unto the Piltovans who put the people in the Sumps. Because of the effects these sermons were having on the people, Vi was sent down to the Sumps to investigate. Vi attended one of The Voice's sermons with one of her childhood friends, Roe, and disrupted it, saying that The Voice was just using the people of Zaun to further his own selfish goals. She wasn't able to convince anybody of this, and got ready to leave the Sumps and go back to Piltover, assuming that The Voice and his followers were not much of a danger.
Shortly after this, The Voice, along with his followers, attacked a recently built tower made for Hextech manufacturing. During the attack, Urgot revealed himself to the followers of The Voice. He was revealed to be The Dreadnought that The Voice had spoken about. After deciding that he was not worthy, Urgot killed The Voice. He then released a canister of poisonous gas into the crowd of people that were attacking the tower, calling it a test of strength. Many people died because of this gas, including one of Vi 's childhood friends, Roe. Those who survived continued the attack on the tower, only to be stopped by Vi and Caitlyn along with other Piltovan enforcers. After a battle in which many people on both sides were hurt and killed, Urgot's forces were eventually defeated and Urgot was captured and put in prison.
Urgot didn’t look like a prisoner to me.
He looked like a spider, waiting patiently in his web.
Urgot is a large figure, standing taller than almost any human. He has six gold and black mechanical legs with green tubes attached to them. These legs give way to a mechanical waist, from which a green tube attaches to a makeshift mask covering Urgot's mouth and nose. He has the upper torso of a muscular man, paler than most because of a large amount of time without seeing Sun in the Dredge, Sumps, and later on, prison. Instead of a right arm, he has a machine gun attached to a piece of machinery where his shoulder would be. The rest of his torso, save for his head, is covered in tattoos.
Urgot is a determined individual, wanting nothing more than to free Zaun from its captors, the chem-barons, and take revenge on Piltover, which has deliberately ignored Zaun, and in his eyes, let it rot while they enjoyed their luxurious lives. While he works tirelessly to free Zaun, he does not consider himself the savior of Zaun, only a personification of its discontent and anger. He believes that Zaun must be ruled by anarchy to reach its true potential, along with the entire world, and that what he considers "the worthy" will be the only ones left standing. Urgot has made this his ultimate goal, and will not stop until he has accomplished it.
Swain saw Urgot as a threat to his plan to take over Noxus, and as such betrayed Urgot by sending him to Zaun to be captured by Chem-Barons.
Caitlyn and Vi were the ones to capture Urgot and imprison him. After a brief escape attempt , the two defeated Urgot again and reimprisoned him.
The Dreadnought
By David Slagle
Starring: Urgot
Short Story
Child of Zaun
By Ian St. Martin
What's the difference between law and order?
Starring: Caitlyn , Urgot , Vi
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
We were running through the streets of Zaun. The pipes and stained glass were blurred, smeared colors against the Gray, and the fog that hung in every chem-soaked alley. Zori was to my left, all matted hair and rusty knives—her smile was the only sign that she was beautiful beneath the grime. Blenk was behind her, with a spray-philter full of glowing paint and a head dripping with ideas. Scuzz brought up the rear, every bit the kind of lug you'd expect to be called Scuzz. But he was our Scuzz, every scuzzy bit of him.
Only the worthy survive.
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
The Man with the Grinning Shadow
By Jared Rosen
“You the marshal?”
Starring: Alistar , Karthus , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Urgot
Mentioned: Cassiopeia
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
One of the ancient darkin , Varus was a deadly killer who loved to torment his foes, driving them almost to insanity before delivering the killing arrow. He was imprisoned at the end of the Great Darkin War , but escaped centuries later in the remade flesh of two Ionian hunters—they had unwittingly released him, cursed to bear the bow containing his bound essence. Varus now seeks out those who trapped him, in order to enact his brutal vengeance, but the mortal souls within still resist him every step of the way.
Varus was born in the ancient Shuriman empire , where he was a paragon of loyalty and honor. Because of his dedication and skills in archery, Varus was appointed to be a temple warden and sent out to guard the temples of the eastern states. During the early stages of the Icathian Uprising , many of the outlying villages were attacked, including Varus's own homeland. Though the other wardens abandoned their posts to join the defense, Varus upheld his oaths and remained at his post, singlehandedly defending the temple. Knowing that his family had been killed during the attack, Varus was anguished and grieved the loss of his family as he fought off the invaders.
In the aftermath, Varus was found by emissaries of the Ascended Host kneeling in deep meditation and surrounded by corpses of his foes. Though successful in defending the temple, the event left Varus horribly traumatized by the event. Despite his unnerving and cold gaze, Varus was offered to join the Ascended as a reward for his noble sacrifice and dedication.
Even as an Ascended God-Warrior, Varus remained bitter and consumed with a vicious desire for vengeance against the Icathians because of what they did to his homeland and family. He continued to participate in the war and pushed back the rebelling Icathians and the horrors of the Void that they unleashed. During this, he reveled in tormenting his enemies to the point of insanity, torturing them with arrows before painfully killing them. Even after Shurima's eventual victory over Icathia, Varus didn't fully comprehend it as his mind had become so twisted that all of the memories of his atrocities blurred together, leaving him as a withdrawn and heartless killer.
Varus standing alongside his fellow Darkin, Aatrox and Rhaast .
After the sudden death of emperor Azir , the Shuriman empire fell and the many Ascended, now calling themselves Sunborn , clashed with one another in bitter rivalries due to the lack of leadership. Their war would be so devastating that mortals began to call these beings the Darkin , an ancient Shuriman world most closely translated to The Fallen, and the Great Darkin War began. [ 2 ]
Varus, who's mind was still twisted beyond repair, couldn't fully comprehend the war happening and instead fully embraced his life as a killer as he was often sent off by his Darkin siblings to assassinate enemy commanders and obliterate entire armies. During the war, Varus fought alongside many of his fellow Darkin, who he considered his brothers and sisters in arms. It's implied that he was a member of a group of five Darkin who were exceptionally powerful and destined to bring ruin to the whole world. These Darkin included Aatrox , Rhaast , Naafiri and an unknown fifth Darkin. At one point, Varus fought alongside his Darkin sister Valeeva, who shared the same desire for violent revenge against those that wronged them. [ 3 ]
The Celestial beings of Targon eventually intervened in the war and the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). began gathering entire armies of mortals to fight back against the Darkin while Myisha, the Aspect of Twilight , taught mortals how to magically imprison them within their own weapons. [ 4 ] After being cornered by a group of vastayan moon-stalkers and human mages serving a golden-armored warrior queen from Valoran , Varus was defeated and bound within his bow. The queen, knowing the risks of handling a Darkin weapon, still chose to wield it during the final days of the war, slowly succumbing to Varus's corruption and turning monstrous. Months later, the warrior queen travelled to the First Lands with Varus in hand and gave a final command to her followers to seal her within a well beneath the mountain temple at Pallas , sacrificing herself and imprisoning Varus within the magical well.
For centuries Varus remained hidden within the well, untouched and mostly forgotten. The people of Pallas remained as custodians to the temple, though largely forgetting the ancient history surrounding it but still being wary of the Darkin being imprisoned within.
Ionian hunters Valmar and Kai fighting off invading Noxians.
At one point an Ionian hunter named Valmar was born in Pallas and grew up to be a skilled hunter alongside his lover Kai . The two eventually travelled to Pallas to visit Valmar's family and, while at the sacred temple, faced the first wave of Noxian invaders. Valmar and Kai fought back the invaders together to defend their homeland, leading to Kai getting mortally wounded. Now grief-stricken, Valmar began to hear whispers coming out of the forbidden well within the temple. Valmar succumbed to Varus's persuasion and carried Kai into the well with him, believing that the forbidden magic can restore his lover. [ 5 ]
As the two swam within the well of Pallas, Varus managed to break down and remake the mortal bodies of Valmar and Kai into a brand new body, repurposing their flesh and souls. Varus emerged out of the well as a unique creature with pale, inhuman beauty; a hybrid of human and Darkin. [ 6 ]
Soon after Varus climbed out of the well, he realized he could hear the voices of Valmar and Kai within his own mind as separate personalities. The two of them cried out in pain over their new existence, as Varus's imperfect hybrid form allowed the two hunters to remain conscious within his body, becoming a body for not one but three souls. Despite this, Varus reveled in his newfound freedom and immediately began slaughtering the invading Noxians within Pallas. During this, Valmar's hatred for Noxians was emphasized by Varus's cruelty as he supported Varus's slaughter. On the other hand, Kai began to lament his lover succumbing to Varus's influence. When Varus attempted to kill Ionians, Valmar began to struggle for control over Varus's body. Eventually, Kai and Valmar realized that their love for one another was strong enough to overcome Varus's hatred, allowing them to take full control for a time. While Valmar took control of the body, he confronted his mother and bid her farewell, believing that he was too dangerous to keep around the village and decided to travel out of Ionia.
The three constantly struggled for control, with Valmar and Kai constantly trying to quell Varus's cruelty. Varus on the other hand went on a vicious pursuit for vengeance against the world, seeking to reunite the rest of his Darkin siblings together and eventually silence the mortal voices within him. [ 7 ]
Varus's quest to reunite the remaining Darkin eventually brought him back to Shurima, where he was guided by a crook-backed birdlike creature with a withered arm, most likely one of the Baccai . Here he sought out his Darkin sister Naafiri , investigating noises coming from sunken ruins in the distance. Here he sensed the same magic used by the golden-armored queen who imprisoned him and found a group of graverobbers digging out the ruins with beasts of burden.
Varus quickly killed most of the excavators while the rest of them quickly fled as Valmar and Kai managed to convince Varus to spare them. Once within the ruins, Varus glanced past statues of other Ascended and magically inscribed flagstones in order to find his sister, only to find that the tomb was empty and realizing that Naafiri had already escaped. [ 8 ]
While Varus continued his quest to reunite the Darkin, the three personalities within him learned to coexist as Valmar and Kai came to realize the humanity that remained within Varus. The two slowly prompted Varus to remember the honorable man he once was in the past, urging him to return to that and slowly redeeming his mind from his mad desire for vengeance. Now fully embracing the sum of his parts, Varus began to act as a singular being as his three personalities fought in unison. Though he continues to be bitter against the world that imprisoned him, he now fights with hope that he can return to the honorable man he once was. [ 9 ]
After Xolaani managed to possess a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). in Ionia, Aatrox rallied for the rest of the Darkin to join him in Icathia and destroy her. [ 10 ] Varus however didn't answer the call immediately and instead sought to gather a party of skilled warriors to aid him in hunting down Xolaani.
Varus facing off against Xolaani alongside his hunting party in Icathia .
By travelling across the world, Varus met many individuals who he convinced to join him on his hunt, empowering their weapons with a fraction of his own Darkin magic. This party consisted of an Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). from Zaun who wanted to study the Darkin magic, a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). of the Buhru culture wishing to use it to hunt down leviathans, a disgruntled Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). of the Avarosans seeking to destroy the Winter's Claw and finally a Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). of the Lunari cult who sought to end the war between the Lunari and the Solari . The party travelled together to Icathia and finally faced off against Xolaani, though the outcome remains unknown. [ 9 ]
While imprisoned, Varus is trapped as a large, purple, organic bow with sharp spikes that almost resemble tree bark. The bow can produce a deep red and purple glow when firing arrows and can split apart horizontally.
His current physical form is a fusion of his Darkin essence mixed with a human body made from the repurposed bodies of Valmar and Kai . Varus stands taller than the average mortal and has pale skin accompanied by dark purple growths across his forearms and the lower half of his body. Varus has pure white hair and eyes with a general face that is inhumanely beautiful to the point where it can be unsettling for mortals to look at him. He wears a red scarf that flows freely across his neck, a crown adorned with a red gem at its center and a leather strap covering the glowing purple wound in his heart, representative of the wound that nearly killed Kai.
It is unknown what Varus looked like in his Ascended form but it's possible that his current form somewhat resembles it.
As a mortal, Varus was a noble and honorable man willing to remain dedicated to his duties no matter what. Varus's loyalty to his sacred duty ran so deep that he refused to leave his post when the Icathians attacked his homeland and slaughtered his family, leaving him anguished and traumatized by the experience.
As an Ascended, Varus grew bitter and even more violently vengeful against others, especially the Icathians that killed his family. Varus enjoyed torturing his enemies to the point of insanity before killing them as a way to sate his desire for vengeance. He had committed so many atrocities that his mind began to break even further as the many atrocities he committed slowly began to blur together, leaving Varus to see himself as nothing but a cold-hearted killer.
After emerging out of the well of Pallas , Varus aimed his vengeance against the mortals that imprisoned him, wishing to destroy the entire world and reunite his Darkin siblings to do so. He completely disregarded mortal life, specifically humans, feeling disgusted by their frailty and bitter against the world that betrayed him.
Valmar and Kai remain within Varus's mind, acting as separate personalities that constantly fight for control. Kai is the more gentler of his personalities, often trying to convince Varus to be merciful and spare mortal lives. Valmar on the other hand is similar to Varus because of his deep hatred against Noxians and desire for vengeance, but still clashes with him over Varus's indiscriminate slaughter. The two use their hope and love for one another as a means of overpowering Varus, gaining control of his body for short periods of time. While Varus initially wished to corrupt or silence their voices, Valmar and Kai have managed to appeal to Varus's humanity, reminding him of the noble man he once was and convincing him to seek redemption. Embracing the sum of his parts, Varus's personalities now act in unison as he now seeks a way to regain his humanity, questioning if he's truly worthy of redemption. Though he's still a merciless killer at times, he has shown to have a renewed sense of honor and has even opened himself up to alliances with other mortals.
Varus regards most of his fellow Darkin as his brothers and sisters at arms, having fought alongside and against them during the Great Darkin War . During this war, Varus was often sent out by his Darkin siblings to assassinate enemy generals and obliterate entire armies. At some point during the war, it's implied that Varus fought alongside four other Darkin that were notably powerful and destined to one day reunite and bring ruin to the world. These notable Darkin are Aatrox , Rhaast , Naafiri and a currently unknown fifth Darkin.
After emerging from the well of Pallas , Varus focused on enacting brutal vengeance against the world by reuniting the rest of his Darkin siblings, especially the four others destined to unite with him. After his separate personalities appealed to the humanity lost within him, Varus instead focused on fighting for himself and to possibly regain his lost humanity rather than for the Darkin.
Valeeva was one of the Darkin present during the earliest days of the war. She and Varus regard each other as brother and sister, having fought side by side during the war and sharing a brutal desire for vengeance against others. After the Aspect of Twilight killed several Darkin and learned to imprison the rest, Valeeva was one of the survivors but hasn't been seen by Varus since.
When Varus emerged out of Pallas, one of his first missions lead him back to the deserts of Shurima in search of Naafiri, who he deeply regards as his sister. While searching for her in a Shuriman tomb, he comes to realize that it has already been emptied, meaning Naafiri managed to escape before Varus's arrival.
Naafiri is one of the five Darkin destined to reunite with Varus in bringing the world to ruin. Though it's unclear whether or not the two have reunited since his search for her, Varus deeply respects Naafiri's sense of unity, seeing it as strength and wishing to apply the concept to the rest of his Darkin siblings to work together.
Aatrox is one of the most respected of the Darkin and the first to be imprisoned during the Great Darkin War. It's implied that Varus fought alongside Aatrox at some point during the war, as he is one of the five Darkin destined to reunite and bring ruin to the world. Though the two share a desire the bring oblivion to the world, Varus wishes to do so out of pure revenge, an emotion Aatrox thinks is weak and unbecoming of him as he criticizes the hybrid form he has taken.
It's implied there was some 'memo' given to Varus by Aatrox which explained that Varus had to use two A's in his name, officially naming him "Vaarus." However, Varus thought the memo was absurd and refused to comply, angering and offending Aatrox.
As a mortal, Varus fought against an army of Icathian invaders during the war against Icathia, killing as many as he could to guard his post. The trauma from the incident remained with Varus even after his Ascension, developing a vengeance against the Icathians which caused him to kill their armies without remorse, shaping him into the cold-hearted killer that he would become.
After becoming his vessel, Varus took advantage of Valmar's grief, urging him to embrace vengeance against the Noxians that killed Kai. Thanks to Kai's influence, Valmar was able to resist Varus' temptations and together they tried to dissuade Varus from his path of vengeance, eventually succeeding in breaking through to him.
When he became a vessel for Varus, Kai was initially horrified towards his new existence and wished to have remained dead, but resisted Varus' attempts to corrupt Valmar into falling to vengeance by reminding him of their love. Kai is the more merciful of the two voices and pleads for Varus to spare the lives of his enemies as well as knowing that Varus has the capability for redemption, and together with Valmar he succeeds in helping him realize his humanity.
The Arrow of Retribution
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Varus
Mentioned: Kai , Valmar
Music Video
By Unknown Author
Witness the incarnation of vengeance.
Starring: Kai , Valmar , Varus
Short Story
Varus followed a river running through the desert. Its water was gritty, but drinkable. The new body he had wrought to bear his bow was beautiful, fast and strong, but it came with the weaknesses of flesh. It hungered. It thirsted.
Mentioned: Kai , Naafiri , Nasus , Renekton , Valmar
Ionia. A land of magic. A land of balance. A land of light. But not always a land of peace. Just as there are creatures within Ionia who seek to upset its order, so too are there those who fight to preserve it; Arrows of Protection, hunters of monsters. Valmar and Kai are two such hunters. But not all monsters can be defeated with bow and steel. And not all darkness can be so easily banished by the light.
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Retribution
Slayer Valmar, desperate to save the life of his beloved Kai, surrendered to an ancient spirit, one of the Darkin. The creature, true to its word, saved Kai's life... by taking it as its own. Valmar, Kai, and the Darkin fused into a single entity. A creature of rage, vengeance, and death. Varus lives.
The Mageseeker
By Digital Sun
In the kingdom of Demacia, the Mageseekers hold the power to oppress magic-using citizens in the name of public order–by inducting and indoctrinating them, locking them away, or driving them into hiding. Play as Sylas, a spell-stealing mage who has just broken free of his unjust captivity at the Mageseekers’ hands. Wielding the chains that once bound you, you must liberate your homeland from tyranny, one Mageseeker at a time.
Starring: Aidan , Eldred , Garen , Gideon , Hesbeth , Jarvan IV , Kara , Killan , Leilani , Lux , Morgana , Nocturne , Rayn , Rukko , Shyvana , Sylas , Wisteria , Yops
Mentioned: Aatrox , Anden Mayne , Dalin , Dominick , Evelynn , Falden , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Jaredan , Jarvan III , Katarina , Kayle , LeBlanc , Mihira , Naafiri , Rhaast , Ryze , Sion , Tianna , Varus
Short Story • 25 Minute Read
Twilight of the Gods
They came to a dead city in the mountain's shadow under cover of night.
Starring: Naganeka , Zoe
Mentioned: Aatrox , Azir , Nasus , Rhaast , Varus
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Journey to Thy Golden Mustache!
By POPSTAR URF
Starring: Braum , Gragas , Ryze , Varus
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Stranger on the Road
By River Jaffe
The road from Tenacity to Progress was a flat, barren thing, unspooling across miles and miles of cactus country from one edge of the sky to the other.
Starring: Talon
Mentioned: Ashe , Katarina , Leona , Mordekaiser , Senna , Tahm Kench , Twitch , Varus
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Shauna Vayne is a deadly, remorseless Demacian monster hunter, who has dedicated her life to finding and destroying the demon that murdered her family. Armed with a wrist-mounted crossbow and a heart full of vengeance, she is only truly happy when slaying practitioners or creations of the dark arts, striking from the shadows with a flurry of silver bolts.
Shauna Vayne was born to House Vayne, a wealthy, noble family in Demacia . She experienced a privileged childhood, being able to enjoy solitary pursuits such as reading, learning music, and collecting insects. Shortly after her sixteenth birthday, Vayne would return to home to find her parents dead, killed by a horned demon . The people of Demacia found it inconceivable that a demon would be able to slip past their defenses and murder her parents, but Vayne knew better. Driven by her parent's death, Vayne would seek out a mentor, someone who could teach her how to combat the forces of darkness.
She would travel to the Freljord to search for her teacher, learning of the Iceborn warriors who battled the Ice Witch from the stories her parents used to tell her. While traversing the frozen tundra, Vayne would be trapped by a ravenous ice troll. As the troll prepared to consume the young aristocrat, he would fall dead to spear of a grizzled, middle-aged woman. She introduced herself as Frey and bandaged Vayne's wounds. Frey explained that she dedicated her life to fighting the Ice Witch's forces, after they killed her children, and Vayne implored her to take her on as a student. Determining that an aristocrat wouldn't have the resolve to fight against the forces of darkness, she refused, but Vayne would not take no for answer. Vayne challenged the Freljordian to a duel, if she won, Frey would have to train her, but if she lost, she would offer herself as bait for the Ice Queen's minions. Seeing Vayne's determination, Frey would agree to train her and the two would return to Demacia.
Vayne would spend the next several years training and hunting with Frey, growing closer with her mentor and eventually seeing her as a maternal figure. However, she was suspicious as to how her teacher had such an in depth understanding of dark magics. They would frequently travel outside of Demacia to hunt their prey and tales of their valor would spread across Valoran. One day they would catch rumor of the horned demon that had slayed Vayne's parents, she had established a cult designed to do her bidding and lure more victims. As they tracked the demon to her lair, Vayne felt fear that she would lose her mother figure again. Before she could express her concerns, they would be ambushed by one of the cultists, injuring Vayne. In order to protect her, Frey transformed into a Freljordian wolf and tore the priest's throat with a single bite. Frey quickly returned to her human form and tried to explain that she became a shaman to combat the Ice Witch, but Vayne fired a bolt through her heart and any affection she felt died with her. Vayne now resumes her hunt for the demon that killed her parents as well as any other monsters that prey upon Runeterra.
Vayne would take a job from a woman in Demacia, her husband had become a monster that attacked the countryside. After tracking him down, she would put him out of his misery and take his body back to his wife. Vayne confronted the woman, revealing that she knows that she is a therian and transformed her husband in an attempt to devour him. Vayne swiftly dispatched the shapechanger and avenged the man.
Vayne was present at the Great City of Demacia when Viego unleashed Harrowings across Runeterra. She helped repel the army of wraiths alongside Poppy and discovered a mysterious crest belonging to the Sentinels of Light . A few weeks later, Demacia would be sieged by another Harrowing. Vayne took shelter in the Singing Swan Tavern and encountered Gwen , Lucian , Senna , and a Sentinel Rookie seeking more information about the origin of the Harrowing. The Sentinels discovered that the Harrowing was focused around the Mageseeker Compound and Vayne accompanied them to the epicenter of the attack. At the entrance, they would be met by Shyvana , afflicted by the Black Mist, and the half-dragon would attempt to bury them beneath rubble. The group frees themselves and venture further into the compound, Viego secures the artifact guarded by the mageseekers and they give chase to the Ruined King. As they corner him, Shyvana returns and attacks, transforming into a Ruined Dragon at Vayne's provocation. They eventually manage to best Shyvana, but Viego escapes with the artifact. As Vayne prepares to execute Shyvana, Senna convinces her not to, and they agree to lock her up in the mageseeker dungeon. Seeing how ineffective her silver weapons were against the Black Mist, Vayne offers to join the Sentinels, in exchange for Relic weapons. They return to headquarters and Vayne is sworn into their ranks and outfitted with a new uniform and a relic crossbow.
Vayne accompanies the Sentinels as they race across Runeterra, trying to stop Viego from securing more fetters. Along the way, the Sentinels would recruit Malcom Graves , Vayne's no-nonsense attitude would garner Graves' respect and, to Vayne's dismay, friendship. Eventually the Sentinels of Light would prepare their final stand against Viego on the Shadow Isles . Vayne and the other Sentinels battled Karma , Miss Fortune , Pantheon , Shyvana and their army of wraiths, while Akshan , Gwen , Senna and the Rookie would defeat Viego in Camavor. With the Ruined King defeated, most of the Sentinels opted to return to their old lives, but Vayne agreed to take up their post in Demacia, while Lucian and Senna hunt Thresh , recently unbound from the Shadow Isles.
In her normal attire, Vayne wears a dark blue catsuit with red accents and red tinted glasses. She wields a wrist-mounted crossbows and carries a larger crossbow on her back. She also keeps her hair in a long ponytail.
As a Sentinel of Light, Vayne wears a black and white Sentinel uniform with red accents, but maintains her red glasses. She wields a wrist-mounted relic crossbow and larger relic crossbow on her back.
Vayne is incredibly determined in her mission to purge Runeterra of the forces of darkness, even willing to kill her mother figure when she found out she was a magic user. She holds extreme prejudice against magic users, but has become more lenient since becoming a Sentinel of Light. She is also quite confident in her own ability, challenging a monster to try and attack her before she could kill them.
Vayne is searching for Evelynn , as she is the demon who killed her parents. She obsessively craves revenge, which motivates Vayne in her life as a hunter.
During a Black Mist attack by Viego on a Demacian city, Vayne and Poppy fought side by side against the undead army.
Vayne fought against Shyvana while she was possessed , and tried to kill her for being a monster. Shyvana was saved by Lucian and Senna , who stopped her and told her that Viego was their real enemy.
Vayne begrudgingly accepted Graves as a friend, when the two of them were Sentinels of Light.
The Night Hunter
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Vayne
Mentioned: Evelynn , Lissandra
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Before Dawn
In the darkest night, a new Sentinel rises.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Shyvana , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Monsters (Short Story)
For Vayne, revenge is a dish best served brutal, bloody, and with skull-piercing bolts.
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 3
By Ian St. Martin
As Ruination spreads across Runeterra, the Sentinels begin a quest for allies.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
Short Story
The Boys and Bombolini
By Jared Rosen
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
Fortune Favors the Lucky
Join Firecracker Sejuani, Firecracker Vayne, Lunar Wraith Sylas, and Coin Emperor Tahm Kench in celebrating the Year of the Pig!
Starring: Sejuani , Sylas , Tahm Kench , Vayne
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Of Rats and Cats and Neon Mice
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Jhin , Vayne , Vi
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
An enthusiastic Yordle sorcerer, Veigar has embraced powers that few others dare even approach. As a free-spirited inhabitant of Bandle City , he once longed to learn more of the celestial magic practiced by mortals, but his natural curiosity was twisted by imprisonment in the Immortal Bastion. Now a stubborn creature with the dark fury of the stars at his command, Veigar is often underestimated by others—and though he believes himself truly evil, there are some who still question his deeper motivations...
Not much is known about Veigar's early life in Bandle City . At some point Veigar, dissatisfied with yordle magic, came to the human world wanting to learn about celestial magic. There he learned with human masters how to wield the power of the stars, which he excelled at. This proved to be a mistake, as this caught the attention of the undead warlord Mordekaiser , who was sweeping through Valoran at that time. The tyrant caught Veigar and took him to his domain.
Veigar was enslaved by Mordekaiser and forced to work for the tyrant. He couldn't escape to Bandle City, as he was bound to the physical plane by Mordekaiser. For years, the yordle was subjected to brutal tortures and abuse until his mind broke. Mordekaiser forced him to twist his magic to hurt others and used him to bring destruction to all who opposed the tyrant. The trauma of those atrocities changed Veigar's personality and appearance.
Yet no one's reign lasts forever, and Mordekaiser was betrayed and overthrown by his servants and the Noxii tribes, led by their god .
After defeating a warlock , Vixis the Cruel, and taking his arcane tower, Veigar tries to scare the local villagers.
Finally, Veigar escaped from his ensorcelled cage. He was not interested in the struggle for power over the empire; his deepest desire was only peace. But by this point, he could no longer give up evil and embraced it by becoming the evil sorcerer.
Yet unlike his former captor, he wasn't so brutal. Indeed, sometimes he burned pastures or destroyed the mansions of barons. Veigar also drove out brigands and warlords, murdered terrible creatures of darkness, defeated warlocks, and took their magic artifacts. So it was difficult for the good people of Valoran to tell whether these acts were malicious or actually reasonably helpful.
Veigar embraces his leadership over the minions and his Yordle-followers.
At some point in time, Veigar conquered a castle somewhere. Veigar became a dark lord with his own numerous Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and yordle-followers. Among them are: Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , who accumulate Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). respectively. A Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , who restores runes of long-forgotten folios with the help of shadow magic. Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , engaged in fashion at court, especially in the matter of increasing height. Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). and his brother Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , proclaiming the greatness of their master. And a mysterious Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , possibly connected with the distant past.
Veigar and his troops embark on a campaign towards darkness, traveling through Yordle Pathways.
In this castle, dangerous artifacts are gradually accumulating, and ancient dark knowledge is being restored. New inventions manifest themselves in the form of war machines combined with artifacts from the dark past. The representation of such a gloomy genius can be the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). - a combat mecha equipped with the Rabadon's Deathcap and the Morellonomicon . Step by step, the military power of Veigar and his forces is growing... He also wrote a book ''How to be a Supervillain''.
Veigar is a small, even for yordle standards, individual. His appearance is obscured under his blue and purple cloak and large hat, which are adorned with many spikes. His most notable accessories are his abnormally large right glove, as well as his axe-like staff (with a gem on its tip).
Under his clothing Veigar has black fur and stark yellow eyes, he resembles a black cat. [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
When he first came to Runeterra, Veigar was an enthusiastic and curious Yordle that wished to learn more about magic. This curiosity led him to leave Bandle City , and go to Runeterra in search for knowledge. There he was delighted with the knowledge that he acquired and put all his effort in becoming a powerful mage.
When the warlord Mordekaiser caught him, he was tortured for year under the warlord's brutal watch. This torture broke the Yordle's mind. With his personality broken, he re-imagined himself as a terrible tyrant with a thirst for power.
Under this new persona, Veigar is obsessed with the aesthetics of villainy. He's arrogant, melodramatic, and antagonistic, constantly causing chaos in the hopes of getting the attention from others. This often leads to frustration as most of his attempts of villainy either led to mild annoyances, or instead lead to great good. He is also territorial in his search for power, aggressively going after anyone that he considers a rival in his quest for power, which often times, accidentally leads to him coming in direct blows with (and defeating) other dark sorcerers and other evils, accidentally helping many on his path.
It's possible that Veigar's acts of good might not be as accidental as it might first appear, but instead his subconscious guiding his actions towards good while his conscious mind, too broken by Mordekaiser's cruelty, rationalizes it to fit in his persona of villain.
Mordekaiser tortured Veigar to gain knowledge about other realms. Eventually, Veigar's personality would shape to be more like his captors. However, due to his yordle nature, he could never perfect his masters cruelty, only a caricature of it.
Veigar knew LeBlanc, who was also forced to work for Mordekaiser. [ 6 ]
In the old lore, Veigar is a friend of Lulu. Their connection in the new lore is left unambiguous.
The Tiny Master of Evil
By Michael Luo
Starring: Veigar
Mentioned: Mordekaiser
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The True and Ghastly Tale of the Beast of Boleham Tower
By Amanda Jeffrey
Thunderclouds rolled off the Argent Mountains, promising pyrotechnics, but delivering none.
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
In the black heart of the Shadow Isles, a lone yordle trudges through the spectral fog, content in its murky misery. With an endless supply of teen angst and a powerful shadow in tow, Vex lives in her own self-made slice of gloom, far from the revolting cheer of the “normie” world. Though she lacks ambition, she is quick to strike down color and happiness, stopping all would-be interlopers with her magical malaise.
Vex was born and raised in Bandle City , and despite her parents' best efforts, Vex never felt like she belonged. She disliked the city's bright colors and she could never really find her "yordle spirit" or any like-minded friends. She spent most of her time sulking in her room, spending time with her shadow, which she liked because it was dark and never said anything.
Eventually, the Black Mist came to Bandle City. While the other residents of the city fought back against the Mist, Vex was intrgued by it and followed it to its source, the Shadow Isles . Vex loved it, as it was dark, gloomy, and full of dead spirits, which she liked. As she stayed there longer, she noticed that a combination of the Black Mist and her passive yordle magic allowed her shadow to gain sentience and also changed her magic, allowing her to cast gloomy and dark spells.
After a time, Vex met Viego , making an alliance with him to plunge the world into darkness and gloom. However, soon Vex found out of Viego's real goal: bringing his dead wife back to life. Disgusted by this show of love, Vex left Viego's side to go back to the Bandle City to tell her parents of all she had done and bask in their disapproval. But when her parents told her that they loved her unconditionally, Vex just sighed, told her parents that they were the worst, and left for the Isles once more.
Vex is a yordle with pale skin, purple eyes, light turqoise hair, and a black nose and mouth. She wears a big purple and black sweater and has a gold emblem of the Shadow Isles on her chest.
Vex is a sad and gloomy yordle that finds contentment in misery. She is eternally unhappy, and is content with this unhappiness. She is easily irritated, especially by bright and happy things, and can easily bring down the mood of any creature with her sadness.
Vex's parents tried to help her find her "yordle spirit" when she was younger, though their positivity only made her resent them. After cutting ties with Viego , she went back to her parents to boast about her crimes so they would hate her, but to her disappointment they forgave her and claimed that they loved her no matter what. Despite her hatred towards them, Vex created Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). to keep herself company while reenacting her childhood and talking to them while pretending that they're her parents, showing she values their presence to a degree.
Milty is Vex's adoptive uncle. He always tries to understand his niece and influence her positively, but she refuses to deal with him due to his positive attitude. When he came to find Vex on the Shadow Isles, he tried to forcibly take her back to Bandle City, but she decided to crush his positive worldview with her nihilism so he would leave her alone, causing him to leave while crying in despair.
Vex had an alliance with Viego to plunge the world into darkness and gloom until Vex found out that his real motive was to revive his wife from the dead.
Allay has a one-sided friendship towards Vex, referring to her as Vee and organizing birthday parties for her, to Vex's annoyance.
Grimm is in love with Vex and feels infatuated towards her gloomy nature, often making dramatic shows to profess his love towards her. In return, she is shown to genuinely tolerate him despite being disinterested by his displays of love.
The Gloomist
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Vex
Mentioned: Isolde , Viego
Rise of the Sentinels
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
The Meaning in Misery
It was midday on the island, and Vex was just emerging from her previous night’s sleep.
Starring: Milty , Vex
Mentioned: Yorick
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a criminal from the mean streets of Zaun , Vi is a hotheaded, impulsive, and fearsome woman with only a very loose respect for authority figures. Growing up all but alone, Vi developed finely honed survival instincts as well as a wickedly abrasive sense of humor. Now working with the Wardens to keep the peace in Piltover , she wields mighty hextech gauntlets that can punch through walls—and suspects—with equal ease.
As a child growing up in the lawless outskirts of Piltover, Vi learned to rob and cheat to get by. Stealing and stripping hextech hardware gave her the skills of a master mechanic, while life on the streets taught her self-reliance. When she was six, a ragtag group of criminals took a shine to the young delinquent and brought her into their fold. By the time Vi was eleven, she had become a seasoned accomplice, and she relished the thrill of every heist.
Vi's attitude changed when a raid on a mining facility went bad. She was forced to decide between fleeing with her crew or trying to save the innocent mine workers from a collapsed tunnel. Vi chose to play the hero. While searching for a way to free the mine workers from the rubble, she discovered a damaged robotic mining rig. Improvising, she wrenched off its huge fists and modified them into makeshift hextech gauntlets. Fitting the heavy weapons to her tiny hands, the young girl flexed her arm and threw a powered punch at the rubble. The force of the blow blasted away the rock. With the workers free to escape, Vi fled the scene.
Vi is a muscular, athletic, light-skinned woman. She wears common punk street fashion typical for Zaunite and Piltover youth atypical for her Warden profession. Her most noticeable features are her mechanical augments inspired tattoos across her entire back and arms (including a VI tattoo on her left cheek), as well as her natural pink hair. She has gray eyes and a height of 5'8 (172cm) including boots.
When at work, she is rarely seen without her Atlas gauntlets which become extensions of her hands.
Vi is an impulsive, brash, energetic, hotheaded, audacious, and daring brawler who lives up to her motto which is "Punch first, then ask questions while punching." She is both fearsome and fearless, she is always looking for a fight. She's a fierce, tomboyish rebel with a loose respect for authority figures, and a witty, abrasive sense of humor. Despite her tendency to fight first, and think later, she is very street smart. But through her rebellious attitude, she is a kind hearted one who means well and gets things done no questions asked.
Jinx is Vi's sister, they both took different paths when they were young, although Vi's main job is to capture her, she also looks for a way to help her.
Vi and Ekko were friends since they grew up together in Zaun, their relationship was stagnant on Ekko's part after Vi was accepted into Piltover.
Jayce Talis
The Piltover Enforcer
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Vi
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Jinx
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Short Story
Child of Zaun
By Ian St. Martin
What's the difference between law and order?
Starring: Caitlyn , Urgot , Vi
Music Video
By Justin Tranter , Imagine Dragons , JID , Fortiche Productions
Oh, the misery, everybody wants to be my ENEMY.
Starring: Aero , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Jericho , Jinx , Mylo , Vi
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Interrogation 101
Vi stifled a yawn as she moved through the gilded chamber at the heart of Piltover's Hall of Law. Dawn was less than an hour old, and the place was quiet. A few drunks were sleeping it off in the shaming cells, and she'd heard there were a couple of chem-augmented thugs in the deeper, more secure lock-ups. She'd ask around later, see if she could provide any insight as to what they were doing up in Piltover.
Mentioned: Caitlyn
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
By Numerous creators
Starring: Caitlyn , Ezreal , Galio , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lux , Sylas , Urgot , Vi
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Short Story • 27 Minute Read
Progress Day
Tamara forces herself to rise early - an easy habit to get into when the earth is your bed and fallen leaves the only blanket. Less so when the mattress is stuffed with goose down and the sheets woven from soft cotton. The curtains are pulled back, and warm light pools on the floor of her third floor boarding room. She'd closed the curtains on her first night in Piltover and had slept two hours past dawn, which worried her so much, she has never closed them since.
Starring: Caitlyn , Tamara
Mentioned: Camille , Vi
The Loose Cannon
Starring: Jinx
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Vi
The Sheriff of Piltover
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Caitlyn
Mentioned: Vi
The Thrill of the Chase
Even three bells after the Sun Gate had closed, Piltover was still full of life - life that was currently getting in her way. Caitlyn sprinted down Mainspring Crescent, weaving a path between midnight revelers strolling down the fashionable promenade of cafes and bistros. The supper clubs were emptying, as were the nearby theaters inside the Drawsmith Arcade, so this street was going to get a whole lot busier. If they didn't catch up to Devaki soon, they were going to lose him.
A Fireside Frightener
By Luchador Teemo , ZeOcelot
Starring: Darius , Draven , Jinx , Lucian , Tristana , Vi
Mentioned: Fiddlesticks , Hecarim , Karthus
Cupcakes 4 Heartaches
Play League of Legends to collect ingredients for Caitlyn's top secret cupcake recipe!
Starring: Amumu , Caitlyn , Vi
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Mayhem Everywhere You Look
By Unknown Author
An inane crime wave sweeps Piltover to the tune of manic laughter. As authorities attempt to curtail the chaos, one enforcer vows to pull the plug on the panic-inducing party.
Starring: Jinx , Vi
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Of Rats and Cats and Neon Mice
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Jhin , Vayne , Vi
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Solo Darius
It's easy crushing top lane when you're SoloRenektonOnly. It’s On.
Starring: Darius , Kayn , Thresh , Vi
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Worlds Collide
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once ruler of a long-lost kingdom , Viego perished over a thousand years ago when his attempt to bring his wife back from the dead triggered the magical catastrophe known as the Ruination . Transformed into a powerful, unliving wraith tortured by an obsessive longing for his centuries-dead queen, Viego now stands as the Ruined King, controlling the deadly Harrowings as he scours Runeterra for anything that might one day restore her, and destroying all in his path as the Black Mist pours endlessly from his cruel, broken heart.
Viego was born centuries ago to the royal family of Camavor, significantly later than his brothers. Due to being the fourth born child of the king, he was largely neglected in favor of his brother and spent his childhood in his shadow. Viego was tutored by the greatest minds in the land and learned swordsmanship from his father's generals. Viego's best friend was his own niece, Kalista , and she would end up becoming his most trusted general.
When his father had passed, Viego was to be crowned the king, despite being unprepared. Kalista was tasked by Viego's father to monitor his rule and steer him in the right direction. Shortly into his reign, Viego had fallen in love with a peasant seamstress named Isolde. The two had a whirlwind romance and were quickly married. Viego had begun to neglect his kingdom in favor of his queen, and his enemies began to conspire against him. They had sent an assassin to kill the wayward king, but they were intercepted by General Kalista. However, Isolde was poisoned in his place. The king ordered the nation's greatest healers and scholars to find a cure for the queen, but when they failed, he sent Kalista to search for one instead. While the king was preoccupied with keeping the queen alive, the kingdom continued to be neglected, and uprisings plagued the country. He ordered Commander Hecarim and his knights to quash these insurrections, and hundreds were put to death. Eventually, the queen would pass, and the king sank into a deep depression. Hecarim proposed invading foreign lands as retribution for the queen, and Viego approved. As the armies of Camavor prepared to set sail, Kalista had returned with word of a cure.
Kalista had sailed to the Blessed Isles and learned of the Waters of Life, which could cure any disease. But by the time she had returned, the queen was dead. Kalista did not believe the cure was of any use after the queen had passed, but Viego refused to believe her and had her imprisoned for treason. Kalista was eventually convinced to show the king the location of the cure, prompting the king and his armies to sail to the Blessed Isles. The residents of the island refused to grant him access to the waters, so Viego ordered Kalista to slay them, but she refused. Hecarim and his knights were more than happy to follow the king's orders and clashed with Kalista's forces, while Viego searched for the waters himself. The king fought his way to the waters, guided by the conniving warden who would become Thresh . When he made it to the vault, Viego lowered Isolde into the waters' healing properties and watched with hope. The queen revived as a former shadow of herself and attacked the king with his own sword. The magic of Viego's blade and the blessed waters mixed, transforming it into the Black Mist and unleashing ruination. The Blessed Isles would transform into the Shadow Isles, and Viego slumbered within his blade for centuries.
Viego would eventually be awakened by Gangplank and Thresh , who planned on using him to conquer Bilgewater. Still weak from his slumber, Viego gathered his strength, fueled by his desire to be reunited with his queen. Eventually, Gangplank would try to subjugate Viego with a powerful amulet, but would fall to the king's power. He would possess the pirate and use him to hold off Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , and Yasuo , while he flew to Bilgewater to search for his queen. The champions of Bilgewater would eventually defeat Viego, weakening him with his own memories and imprisoning him within the amulet. The amulet would be guarded by Illaoi.
Illaoi departs for the Shadow Isles in search of the Brethren of the Dusk, the original creators of the amulet, to find out if she can destroy it, with Viego trapped inside. She is escorted there by Ruven, a captain indebted to Miss Fortune. On Isles, Illaoi meets Yorick; the last member of the brotherhood, who reveals they can destroy the amulet, but requires a heat source hot enough to do so. They decide on a nearby volcano, but as they set sail, Ruven betrays Illaoi, revealing he is the puppet of Bartek, an agent of Thresh. Bartek manages to wrestle the amulet from them and returns it to Thresh.
At some point, Viego would escape the amulet and resume his search for Isolde. He would be made aware of a fragment of her soul within Senna , and intercepted her and her husband Lucian . Viego would unleash Harrowings in Demacia, Ionia, and Noxus while he tried to separate the fragment from Senna. He would manage to pry a portion of the fragment within her before they escaped. Viego soon encountered a gloomy Yordle on the Shadow Isles named Vex . Vex was enamored by Viego's darkness and agreed to help spread the Black Mist across the world. With the help of his new companion, Viego would unleash a global Harrowing to scour the world for the soul fragments.
He would obtain the fragments and bend several champions to his will, including Draven , Karma , Miss Fortune , Pantheon , and Shyvana . Along the way, he and his forces would be confronted by the Sentinels of Light. After obtaining most of the fragments, the Sentinels launched a final assault on Viego on the Shadow Isles. There, he would obtain the last three fragments within Senna, Gwen and the Maiden of the Mist. His forces held off the Sentinels while he took the fragments to Camavor to revive his queen. Viego resurrected Isolde, but she was horrified at what he had become. Isolde prompted Akshan to kill her, reviving Senna, Gwen, and the Maiden. The Sentinels then defeated the king, leaving him imprisoned in Hallowed Mist forever.
As a wraith, Viego has a pale complexion, spectral green eyes, and white hair. He is adorned by a green, spectral crown and a triangle shaped wound in his chest, where Black Mist pours out. Viego wears a black leather jacket and pants with light armorments and no shirt, showing off his bare, sculpted chest. He wields Sanctity, the Blade of the King, a spectral Zweihänder with the crest of Camavor on its hilt. Viego can also manifest additional armor made from Black Mist, including a helmet and a chest plate.
In life, Viego's complexion was close to fair, and his skin was slightly tanned. His hair has a brown color. He wore a blue leather jacket and undershirt with black pauldrons and gauntlets with gold accents. He also wore brown pants with black boots. He wielded an uncorrupted version of Sanctity, adorned by gold and jewels.
Viego was an incredibly passionate, yet arrogant man. Due to being raised in nobility, Viego was given everything in life and believed all was his. He was deeply enamored with his wife, Isolde, and would dote on her. His devotion to his wife led him to be highly disinterested in ruling their kingdom and neglect his responsibilities. He has shown himself to be a perfectionist, having high expectations of his queen and would berate her when she couldn't live up to them. When Isolde was poisoned, Viego became obsessed with saving her, using all of the kingdom's resources to try and keep her alive. When the queen had passed, he was willing to slaughter thousands and defy death itself to bring her back. Centuries later, his obsession remains, willing to plunge the world into darkness in order to revive his queen.
Kalista is Viego's niece and was his most trusted general in life. Despite being her uncle, Kalista was like an older sister to Viego, the two were friends for a long time since he was largely ignored in favor of Kalista's father. When her grandfather died and Viego became king, his negative traits were worsened and they began to drift apart, however she was still loyal to him.
Kalista managed to protect Viego from an assassin, but resulted in Isolde getting poisoned instead. She would set sail in order to find a cure, but found it too late and was imprisoned as a traitor for her failure. She was eventually convinced by Hecarim to lead Viego and their army to the Blessed Isles for the Waters of Life. When the masters of the island refused to let them use the water, Viego ordered her to kill anyone who opposed them. Kalista refused and was stabbed by Hecarim before her forces clashed with the Iron Order.
Hecarim was the leader of the Iron Order, a brotherhood of knights which vowed to protect the king's lands. Under Viego, Hecarim and the Iron Order acted as the king's enforcers and quelled growing dissent after Viego began neglecting his duties. Hecarim and his knights accompanied Viego to the Blessed Isles. They held off Kalista's forces and pillaged the city while Viego attempted to heal Isolde.
In The Despoiler of Havenfall , it is revealed that Hecarim does not think highly of Viego and only continues to follow him because he can spread the Black Mist across Runeterra and allows him to pillage the land.
Although Viego calls Vladimir his uncle in game, they are only distantly related due to both descending from the royalty of Camavor. [ 2 ] At some point after being taken by his Darkin master, Vladimir started sending customary, yearly letters to his original kingdom. After Isolde was poisoned, a grief stricken Viego refused to respond, not knowing Vladimir had the power that could have saved her. [ 3 ]
Viego's wife is a seamstress named Isolde. Viego was selfish, self-centered, young, immature, and had a lot of power. So when he saw someone as beautiful as Isolde, he had to have her. She accepted because she was a commoner from a conquered country. [ 4 ] Viego was a perfectionist in his relationship with Isolde, so when she couldn't live up to his expectations, he would berate her. However, the thought of not being the perfect husband for her disturbed him and he would abandon the memories of the times they fought. [ 5 ] It is uncertain if Viego truly loved Isolde or loved that she was his because he was raised to take anything he desired. Regardless, he doted and focused on her and ignored his duties as king. Viego’s love for Isolde is characterized by utter obsession to the exclusion of everything else, and driven by a lack of understanding of any motivations other than his own. [ 6 ]
Isolde stabbed Viego with his own blade after he resurrected her. The magic of the waters and the ancient sword caused Ruination which turned the Blessed Isles into the Shadow Isles . When Viego resurrected Isolde a second time, she was disgusted at what he had become and the atrocities he had committed to bring her back. She would allow Akshan to kill her again with his Absolver to revive Gwen and Senna and weaken Viego.
Gwen was created by Isolde and she associates him with the pain of Isolde being taken away from her. She opposes Viego and sided with the Sentinels of Light to stop the pain he has caused in his search for Isolde's soul fragments. Gwen contained a fragment of Isolde's soul.
Thresh led Viego to the Waters of Life where he resurrected Isolde. Thresh and Gangplank woke Viego up from his slumber in order to use him to conquer Bilgewater. Thresh plotted against Viego during Rise of the Sentinels and secretly siphoned the excess Black Mist he was producing in order the unbind himself from the Shadow Isles.
Senna was cursed to have a fragment of Isolde's soul within her, leading to her being relentlessly hunted by the mist. Later, she learned the truth about the mist during her time inside Thresh's latern. After being freed from it, Senna and her husband Lucian were determined to defeat Viego. Upon finding out about Senna's relation to Isolde, Viego confronted her and Lucian and partially separated Isolde from her body. She, Akshan , Gwen and a Sentinel Rookie would eventually defeat him in Camavor and leave him restrained in Hallowed Mist.
Viego unleashed a global ruination with the aid of Vex during Rise of the Sentinels . Vex was enamored by Viego's desire to plunge the world into darkness and aided him in causing a global ruination, but would later abandon him when she discovered that he was doing it for love
Maokai and Yorick were hunting for Viego in hope of restoring the Blessed Isles. The Maiden of the Mist was one of the fetters of Isolde's soul.
During the events of Ruined King , Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke and Yasuo set sail to the Shadow Isles to confront Viego in order to protect Bilgewater . Viego tried to tempt Miss Fortune into joining with him, promising her the power to rule Bilgewater and even bring back her mother, but her will proved stronger and she would imprison him in a Buhru artifact. Miss Fortune would eventually join Viego during Rise of the Sentinels, after months of fighting over Bilgewater with Gangplank.
Viego would eventually escape the Buhru artifact and unleash harrowings across multiple regions to begin his search for the fragments of Isolde's soul. These harrowings were repelled by multiple champions including: Darius , Karma , Poppy , Samira , and Vayne .
He corrupted multiple champions, such as Draven , Karma , Pantheon , Miss Fortune and Shyvana , to aid in his search. [ 7 ] Multiple champions were recruited by the Sentinels of Light to stop him such as Diana , Graves , Irelia , Olaf , Pyke , Rengar , Riven and Vayne .
The Ruined King
By Jared Rosen
Starring: Viego
Mentioned: Isolde
Absolution (Cinematic)
Two souls entwined by fate. One life for the other’s freedom.
Starring: Akshan , Graves , Gwen , Isolde , Lucian , Pantheon , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Music Video
Kingdom (Video)
By Numerous creators
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey (Wild Rift)
Kalista drives fear and spears into the hearts of all who oppose her, but she wasn't always as a wraith of the Shadow Isles. Come learn her tragic story in League of Legends: Wild Rift special RUINATION: Kalista's Odyssey event.
Starring: Hecarim , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Jenda'kaya , Necrit , Soraka , Tyrus , Vennix
Rise of the Sentinels
By John O'Bryan
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
Roots of Ruin
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Ruination (Video)
A king returns. All he touches turns to ruin.
Starring: Darius , Karma , Lucian , Poppy , Samira , Senna , Vayne , Viego
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
She (Short Story)
Each time Viego thought of her face, it looked a little different.
Steadfast Heart: Issue 1
By Ian St. Martin
Separated by a millennium, personal tragedy draws Viego and Lucian to islands shrouded in mist and mystery.
Starring: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Viego
Steadfast Heart: Issue 2
Viego and Lucian grapple with losing the loves of their lives. Will either find peace, or only ruin?
Steadfast Heart: Issue 5
Senna trains the new Sentinels of Light, as Lucian searches for the wielder of a legendary weapon in Shurima. Meanwhile, the Ruined King gains allies of his own.
Starring: Akshan , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
Mentioned: Isolde , Senna
Steadfast Heart: Issue 6
The final showdown between Light and Darkness - the fate of Runeterra lies in the balance!
Starring: Akshan , Irelia , Isolde , Lucian , Riven , Thresh , Vayne , Viego
An Intimate Evening at Oyster Bill's
You will know joy...
Starring: Graves , Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Rengar , Senna , Tahm Kench , Viego
Before Dawn
In the darkest night, a new Sentinel rises.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Shyvana , Vayne
Mentioned: Viego
Beyond the Mist
Moments before reaching the Blessed Isles, Kalista’s fate is written in the mist.
Starring: Kalista
Mentioned: Ledros , Soraka , Viego
In Battle, Broken
By Laurie Goulding
Weary from the day’s labors, Iula wiped her stiff hands upon her apron, and raised a cup to the mantel.
Starring: Iula , Pantheon
Mentioned: Diana , Leona , Viego
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
"Help… me," begged the shipwrecked man.
Starring: Yorick
Mentioned: Isolde , Viego
Made with Love
Once upon a time, a seamstress made a darling little doll. This doll loved her maker very much, but sadly, tragedy ripped them apart, sending the doll to sink beneath sea and sorrow. Centuries passed, but the doll was not deterred, for she knew love would find her again.
Starring: Gwen
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
No One Lives
By Graham McNeill
Icy waves crashed on the bleak shore, red with the blood of the men Hecarim had already butchered. The mortals he had yet to kill were retreating over the beach in terror. Black rain doused them and stormclouds boiled in from the mourning heart of the island. He heard them shouting to one another. The words were a guttural battle-cant he did not recognize, but the meaning was clear; they actually thought they might live to reach their ship. True, they had some skill. They moved as one, wooden shields interlocked. But they were mortal and Hecarim savored the meat-stink of their fear.
Starring: Hecarim
Mentioned: Thresh , Viego
By Phillip Vargas
Senna woke with a gasp, her breath pluming in the frigid night.
Starring: Lucian , Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Thresh , Viego
Shepherd of Souls
Steadfast Heart: Issue 3
As Ruination spreads across Runeterra, the Sentinels begin a quest for allies.
Starring: Lucian , Senna , Thresh , Vayne
Steadfast Heart: Issue 4
Tension brews as the Sentinels recruit more allies and prepare to take on the Ruined King. Can this motley crew win this fight?
Starring: Irelia , Lucian , Riven , Senna , Vayne
The Boys and Bombolini
There existed, among the multitude of disgusting Bilgewater shipping warehouses filled with rusted knives and arms-length carnivorous rats, one Bilgewater shipping warehouse devoid of such things.
Starring: Graves , Twisted Fate
Mentioned: Akshan , Gwen , Nilah , Tahm Kench , Vayne , Viego
The Chain Warden
Starring: Thresh
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Senna , Viego
The Despoiler of Havenfall
By Michael Haugen Wieske
The fog had come in swiftly, eclipsing the afternoon sun over the crossroads.
Mentioned: Jarvan IV , Kayle , Viego
The Echoes Left Behind
Blood pooled beneath him, bright crimson against pristine white stone. His sword lay nearby, its blade broken. His killers stood around him, shadows on the periphery, but he saw nothing except her.
Starring: Kalista , Ledros , Thresh
Mentioned: Hecarim , Ryze , Viego
The Fiery Fledgling
By Kristina Atanasoski
Starring: Smolder
The Gloomist
Starring: Vex
The Hallowed Seamstress
By Michael Luo
The Joy Unbound
Starring: Nilah
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Viego
The Princeling's Lament
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
The Redeemer
By David Slagle
Starring: Senna
Mentioned: Isolde , Lucian , Thresh , Viego
The Shadow of War
Mentioned: Isolde , Kalista , Thresh , Viego
The Spear of Vengeance
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Viego
The Twisted Treant
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Maokai
The Voices of the Dead
There's a saying on my island. “ Only through stealing our breath can the wind speak .” You want me to describe the Black Mist that greeted me when I first arrived in the Ionian village, hood raised, relic cannon on my back?
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
By Pentakill
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
The Dissonant Verses
I: Herald of the Forbidden God
Mentioned: Karthus
Tournament of Souls
By Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
Play League of Legends to build Samira's reputation and style on your competition at the Tournament of Souls! Face off against the strongest soul fighters in a series of fierce 1v1 matches to help Samira chase down her biggest bounty yet and fulfill her SOUL'S DESIRE!
Starring: Evelynn , Gwen , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Pyke , Samira , Sett , Shaco , Viego
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The herald of a new age of technology, Viktor has devoted his life to the advancement of humankind. An idealist who seeks to lift the people of Zaun to a new level of understanding, he believes that only by embracing a glorious evolution of technology can humanity's full potential be realized. With a body augmented by steel and science, Viktor is zealous in his pursuit of this bright future.
Viktor was born in Zaun, on the borders of the Entresol level. Encouraged by his artisan parents, he discovered a passion for invention and building from a young age. He devoted his whole being to his studies, hating to interrupt his work even to eat or sleep. Abandoning his work, under any circumstances, was nearly impossible for him.
Viktor had conducted research on Zaun’s many accidents and came to the discovery that most of them were the result of human error, as opposed to being a result of mechanical failure. He offered his services to local businesses, developing inventions in the hopes of creating safer work environments. Most refused to work with him, but the Fredersen Chem-forge gave the young man a chance.
His inventions reduced the number of accidents in the forge to null within a month, and so other establishments began to seek out his work. His designs became common in Zaun, improving production with every innovation.
Soon enough, at the age of nineteen he was offered a place in Zaun’s prestigious Academy of Techmaturgy. Viktor’s work had attracted the eye of Professor Stanwick of Piltover , who convinced him to go to Piltover’s academy instead. There, he could work in the most advanced laboratories and have access to all the resources the City of Progress could offer him. Viktor accepted his offer, taking residence in Piltover, where he refined his craft and strived to perfect his theorems in ways that would benefit everyone.
In Piltover, Viktor worked frequently with the best and brightest the city had to offer, which included the insufferable Jayce . They worked together frequently, though in Viktor's words, he and the flamboyant and arrogant genius were intellectual equals, but clashed in personality. They would often argue over their perceptions of intuition vs. logic in the process of invention, never becoming friends but each able to mutually respect and recognise the flawed brilliance of the other.
In the middle of his studies, a major chem-spill devastated entire districts of Zaun, and Viktor returned home to help. These efforts included building an unintentionally sentient golem, whom Viktor named Blitzcrank , and together they saved many from the disaster. The two parted ways after failing to prevent more deaths resulting from the radioactive aftermath, and Viktor returned to Piltover. Though distraught at the loss of life, this experience enlightened Viktor to what could be done when fusing technology and human anatomy for the enhancement of the latter.
However, during Viktor's absence, Professor Stanwick had claimed Blitzcrank as his own invention. Viktor's pleas did nothing for him with the indifferent higher-ups. Pursuing the matter, he asked Jayce to help verify his case, but his schoolmate refused. With the odds stacked against him, Viktor was unable to bring the truth to light. Bitter but resigned, Viktor returned to his work, knowing that bettering lives and creating change was more important than credit and ego.
This matter, however, only served to push him to obsess over eradicating human error from innovation. His growing interest in improving human performance with technology and eliminating the "grossly inefficient abberation" of human involvement created tension between him and his fellow students and professors who saw the very things Viktor sought to remove as the source of human ingenuity and creativity.
This came to fruition during a collaboration with Jayce to improve diving suits used to keep Piltover’s docks clear of underwater debris and lingering chemical waste.
As a solution to the fear-resultant hallucinations experienced by the divers underwater, which were leading many to fatal watery ends, Viktor devised a helmet that would allow an operator on the surface to bypass the wearer's fear-response and effectively control the diver. A heated discussion between Viktor and Jayce on free will and mental enslavement turned bitter and the two vowed never to work together again. Jayce later reported the incident to the college masters, who then expelled Viktor for work that violated basic human dignity—work that, in Viktor's eyes, would have saved lives.
Disgusted by the narrow-minded attitudes he encountered in Piltover, Viktor retreated to his old laboratory in Zaun. The combination of his failure to save lives in Zaun, failure to prove his creation of Blitzcrank, and expulsion from Piltover caused him to sink into a deep depression. Despite his professed revulsion for the human aspect negative impacting innovation, he had let his own emotions get the better of his efforts to help others and save lives. His naive belief that good intentions could overcome ingrained prejudice had blinded him to human failings.
To solve this, he operated on himself to remove those parts of his flesh and psyche that relied upon or were inhibited by emotion.
When the surgery was done, almost no trace of the young man who had traveled to Piltover remained. In supplanting the majority of his anatomy with mechanical improvements, his personality had also been modified. His idealistic hope to better society was refined into an obsession with what he called the Glorious Evolution. Viktor now saw himself as the pioneer of Valoran's future - an idealized dream where man would renounce flesh in favor of superior hextech augmentations. This would free humanity from fatal errors and suffering, though Viktor knew it was a task that would not be completed easily or quickly.
Another one of Zaun's common chemical disasters in the Sump turned hundreds in the Factorywood into rabid psychotics. Viktor brought the victims back to his lab, where he tried to undo the damage and slow the degenerative processes. However, what he had in his lab would not be enough to save these people. What he needed was more power - which he detected a surge of in Piltover, in Jayce's lab. The source was a Shuriman crystal, and it would solve everything.
He demanded that Jayce hand the crystal over, but the Piltovan refused, and so Viktor had to take it by force. Returning to his lab, he set to work, readying a new automaton body for the victims in case the damage on their bodies proved to be too much. However, in the middle of his attempt, Jayce burst in with an energized hammer and began destroying what he had worked for. Knowing Jayce would never listen to reason, he ordered the automatons to kill him. At the end of the fight, Jayce brought his hammer down on the crystal, causing the entire warehouse to collapse, taking the lives Viktor had been trying to save.
Viktor escaped the explosion, and returned to his mission of bettering humanity by ridding it of its destructive emotional impulses. In Viktor’s mind, Jayce’s impetuous attack only proved the truth of his cause and strengthened his desire to unburden humanity of the failings of flesh. He sent chem-augmented thugs to Jayce's lab afterwards, not for revenge, but to search for more of the crystal. The raid was unsuccessful , however, and Viktor thought no more of Jayce. Currently, he is still dedicatedly working on bringing the Glorious Evolution to the people, and saving them from themselves.
Viktor's left arm is a 4-fingered mechanical prosthesis; his other limbs may be prosthetic as well or simply armored. He has a shoulder pauldron on his left, and a deep blue cloak that is red on the inside covering the other shoulder. His right hand wears a gauntlet, and around his waist is a turquoise covering. On his left leg he wears a brace for support. A third arm extends from his back, fitted with a high-precision high-power laser.
Viktor had an obsessive, idealistic personality, and was a workaholic. He was a self-described methodical, logical and thorough person, and is implied to previously have been emotional. He was interested in how techmaturgy could help society.
Following his efforts to improve himself, his obsessive tendencies heightened, and reportedly is now less capable of emotion than before. His previous interest developed into a mission he has devoted his life to.
Viktor has shown little regard for free will and autonomy when dealing in matters of life and death. He believes he is doing what is right and is generally benevolent, but uses ethically dubious methods to achieve desired results.
Note: The following description will prioritise the facts as listed in Viktor's biography as opposed to Blitzcrank's , given that this is Viktor's wikipage. The only notable conflicts would be in Blitzcrank's origins and the reasons for their separation. Where Blitzcrank's biography states he was an abandoned golem given sentience through the means of a hextech crystal, Viktor's biography describes events differently. Blitzcrank also credits the parting of their ways to a chem-baron. In terms of matters omitted, Blitzcrank does not seem to be involved in the events in Piltover between Professor Stanwick and Viktor.
Blitzcrank was a custom-built golem, constructed by Viktor in order to help in the clean-up efforts following a devastating chem-spill in Zaun. He grafted a sophisticated series of cognitive loops onto existing automata-technology, which formed the basis of Blitzcrank's intelligence and later unintended sentience. The two worked together to better the lives of those affected by the spill. Unfortunately, their efforts failed to prevent more deaths, and so the two parted ways.
Later in Piltover, Professor Stanwick claimed Blitzcrank as his own invention. Viktor challenged him, but backed by no one, he lost the case.
The two currently have no reason to be unfriendly with each other.
Jayce and Viktor are ex-colleagues and current enemies. They disagree over many topics relating to ethics in science, most pertaining to free will.
The Machine Herald
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Viktor
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Jayce
A Perfect Life: Closed Circuit
By John O'Bryan
Ekko is a teen inventor who lives in Zaun, a city where being handy with technology is the best path to a better future. His greatest invention is the Z-Drive: a device which allows him to rewind his own timeline—and redo the last few seconds of his past. Ekko uses the Z-Drive to fix everything in his life: small mistakes, life-changing ones, and everything in between. But messing with time can have some major consequences for Ekko, his friends, his family, and his world... In this prequel to Conv/rgence, Ekko imagines a timeline without do-overs, where he must give up the extra chances time travel has offered him. But it's harder than he thinks to let time flow on without getting involved...
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Jayce , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
A Perfect Life: Jump Start
Starring: Chancee , Ekko , Inna , Lem , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Aximander , Chadd , Elie , Jayce , Rungs
A Perfect Life: Side Effects
Starring: Ekko , Jayce , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna
A Perfect Life: The Depths
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Van Klegg , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Inna , Jayce , Jinx
A Perfect Life: Wrong Turn
Starring: Aximander , Chancee , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Lem , Red , Skids , Vale Poingdestre , Viktor , Wyeth
Mentioned: Elie , Rungs , Van Klegg
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
House on Emberflit Alley
By Rayla Heide
Viktor's third arm emitted a thin ray of light that welded metal into his left arm with steady precision. The smell of burning flesh no longer bothered him, nor did the sight of his left wrist splayed open, veins and sinewy muscle fused with mechanical augments. He did not wince. Instead, he felt a sense of achievement gazing at the seamless blend of synthetic and organic materials.
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
A Quick Fix
By Anthony Burch
Any fool could have predicted that Viktor would strike back at some point. If one weren't a fool, one might predict the exact date and time of an attempted counterattack.
Starring: Jayce
Mentioned: Viktor
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Short Story
The Council Archives
By Ty Sheedlo
The Council Archives. You'd heard stories at the Academy, of course, but words could not describe the breathtaking magnitude of its contents. The entire history of your city: its glorious achievements, its sinister secrets, painstakingly documented, waiting to be read.
Starring: Caitlyn , Jayce , Jinx , Vi
Mentioned: Benzo , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Grayson , Heimerdinger , Marcus , Mylo , Renni , Silco , Smeech , Tobias , Vander , Viktor , Ximena
The Defender of Tomorrow
The Great Steam Golem
Starring: Blitzcrank
Cosmic Creation
Transform your destiny.
Starring: Riven , Viktor , zoe
Just One More
Every League of Legends player knows what it's like to chase the next win. Inspired by the true story of the five North American League of Legends players with the longest losing streak in one sitting. It's On.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Darius , Fizz , Jinx , Karthus , Kayn , Lux , Vi , Viktor
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Music Video
Worlds Collide
By Numerous creators
Two teams have risen above their peers. Ten warriors have laid claim to the Summoner’s Cup. Five champions will etch their names in history.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Draven , Fizz , Hecarim , Irelia , Kalista , LeBlanc , Nidalee , Shen , Sivir , Thresh , Vi , Viktor
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A fiend with a thirst for mortal blood, Vladimir has influenced the affairs of Noxus since the empire's earliest days. In addition to unnaturally extending his life, his mastery of hemomancy allows him to control the minds and bodies of others as easily as his own. In the flamboyant salons of the Noxian aristocracy, this has enabled him to build a fanatical cult of personality around himself—while in the lowest back alleys, it allows him to bleed his enemies dry.
Vladimir was once a prince of Camavor , but was given away as a royal hostage to an unknown Darkin as a bargain to save the kingdom from the monster's tyranny. Should the king break faith with the Darkin, the prince would be slain.
Vladimir was taken to Shurima in which his Darkin master dwelled. He was given permission to write and sent customary letters to his kingdom, but his letters were all ignored. He eventually learned that his father had broken his oath within the year. Because his father had sons and heirs aplenty, the death of Vladimir would mean nothing to the king.
Surprisingly, instead of getting killed as he expected, his Darkin master had something altogether more amusing in mind. The Darkin offered Vladimir the chance to lead his armies against his father's kingdom, an offer he gladly accepted. He destroyed his father's kingdom and presented his father's head to his master as a way to prove his loyalty. Believing himself above other mortal vassals, his devotion earned him a place of favor in his patron's warhost, and he learned hemomancy. Darkin teaching their secrets to mortals was forbidden under pain of death, but his master delighted in flaunting the mores of his kind. Over time, the god-warrior watched with amusement as Vladimir came to govern his subjects with as little mercy as the Darkin themselves. His Darkin master would later teach other mortals blood magic, but none were as capable and talented as Vladimir.
Eventually, near the end of the Great Darkin War , the enemies of the Darkin united. The Darkin master instructed Vladimir to lead his armies in defense against his unified enemies. Unknown to all but Vladimir himself, he had already found a method to kill a god-warrior. Vladimir killed his master instead and absorbed his power. Scarred, blinded, driven mad by the radiance of a Darkin’s undoing, he absorbed enough power to renew flesh that was never meant to last beyond a mortal lifespan. A few surviving mortals fled, taking what knowledge they had of blood magic with them.
Some time after the war ended, Vladimir moved to the Blessed Isles , expanding his knowledge of magic and collecting various magical artifacts.
At the height of the Reign Of The Iron Revenant , it was said that a mythic and bloodthirsty fiend haunted the coastal cliffs of eastern Valoran, demanding young lives and savage worship from the local barbaric Noxii tribes. Few were welcome in his lair, until the day a pale sorceress approached the barbarian god with an offer. The two feasted together as equals, weaving magic so dark that the wine at their table soured, and the roses withered, vibrant red turning to black. This encounter would result in the formation of the Black Rose , and so began the pact between Vladimir and LeBlanc. Vladimir then rallied all the Noxii tribes and lead the siege in which The Iron Revenant was ultimately defeated. This alliance neutralized the source of his power, The Immortal Bastion . They managed to sever the anchors of his soul from his armor, as well as seal the empty iron shell away in a secret place. Thus Mordekaiser's reign was ended, and he was cast out of the material realm.
From a visit by General Kalista to the Blessed Isles, Vladimir received the news of the current king of Camavor and the loss of his wife . He attempted to contact the king and wrote a letter to him, but the grief-stricken Viego refused to respond, not knowing Vladimir had the power and knowledge that could have saved her. When Viego sailed for the Blessed Isles with his armies, Vladimir foresaw disaster approaching and left the region soon after, narrowly avoiding The Ruination of Helia .
After Helia fell to the Ruination, the remnants of an ancient order from the Blessed Isles, whose mission had been to gather and protect the most dangerous artifacts in Runeterra , struggled to keep knowledge of the World Runes hidden. Political tension followed as nations were unwilling to trust one another for fear of being unwittingly destroyed by these runes. The leaders of two rival Noxii tribes pleaded with Tyrus of Helia, in parley at the village of Khom . The encounter ended in the complete destruction of Khom and its surrounding territories by the power of two World Runes. During The Rune Wars , magical fallout resulting from the almost apocalyptic battle forced Vladimir and the last of the Noxii to retreat into The Immortal Bastion for shelter. When they finally emerged, the land beyond had been ravaged, but they survived. From that day onward, they were united as a single people, no longer as Noxii but Noxus . The capital, Noxus Prime , was built center at the still unbreachable Immortal Bastion. This event marks The Resurgence of Civilizations and the beginning of the Noxian Calendar, and they have marked their calendar from this date ever since.
Over the centuries, others joined them—powerful nobles, exalted masters of magic, and beings darker still. Rife with disputes, and games of politics and war, Black Rose grew into the hidden power that would guide the throne of Noxus for more than a thousand years, orchestrating many of the empire’s most ambitious campaigns. Noxus began to forcefully annex numerous territories alongside its eastern borders. After a series of forced annexations and the fall of The Drakkengate , the strength of Noxus grew to match its ambitions.
During the Battle of the Greenfangs , a skilled order of Noxian warmages known as the Arcane Fist, led by Vladimir, bombarded the Demacian troops for thirteen days. Afterwards the colossus with wings mirroring the image of the Winged Sisters known as Galio awakened for the first time. Galio would later protect the Demacian soldiers during their hold against the invading warmages and single-handedly defeated the entire mage army. After all the invading mages were defeated and withdrew, Galio returned to his pedestal and ceased to move. This bizarre tale was told in hushed tones by the few who had survived the battle, and was usually received with silent incredulity. As the years would go by, the story of Galio and Battle of the Greenfangs would eventually be seen as nothing more than a mere legend. At some point afterward, Vladimir resorted to seclusion, and he was absent in The First Demacian-Noxian War . Over the next half a century, Demacia would end up freeing the countries of Central Valoran from Noxian dominance, pushing the Noxians back towards their capital.
The ruling Grand General of the empire, Boram Darkwill , was willing to pay almost any price to restore Noxus' lost glory, and he made an alliance with The Black Rose. With help from Vladimir, LeBlanc spearheaded the resurrection ritual to reanimate the long-dead hero Sion , and presented him to the Grand General. Sion, driven mad by unnatural bloodlust and utterly inured to pain, hurled himself like a living battering ram against allies and foes alike, destroying all he faced. The victories Sion brought were costly. After several battles, Sion's bloodlust was deemed uncontrollable and Boram Darkwill ordered his imprisonment.
With the unexpected death of Boram Darkwill and the rise of Jericho Swain as the new Grand General, the political landscape of the empire changed dramatically, and Vladimir has been forced to rouse himself once more. Wearing the guise of a benevolent socialite, he has returned to the public eye as a vocal opponent to the ruling Trifarix council, much to the concern of more cautious members of the Black Rose. His reappearance may have come too soon, as time has not yet washed away all the stains of his previous lifetime, and it seems likely that Swain himself has begun to grasp Vladimir’s true nature.
Vladimir has been passive for too long, but now he is ready to take what is his, that which was for so long denied him—a kingdom of his own. Under Vladimir’s tutelage, the art of hemomancy has found a place in the military of Noxus, and among scions of the old aristocracy. Among these diverse practitioners is the Crimson Circle , a youthful cult dedicated to Vladimir as much as to blood magic itself.
Vladimir is a tall man with an eternally youthful face. He has medium-length white hair and blue eyes that will glow red when he utilizes his magic. He generally wears lavish, aristocratic clothing, always red with a silver or gold trim. His signature outfit consists of knee-high boots, vertically striped pants, and a slim overcoat with a massive, regal collar and metal spikes dangling from the sleeves. Notably, he wears long metal claws on each finger.
Vladimir is an ambitious being that desires to fulfill his immortal life with the pleasures of the world. His flamboyant behavior hides his cruelty and sadism, which he indulges when using his powers on others.
Vladimir made himself a home in Mortoraa, a big castle in a small district within the Immortal Bastion, known for being one of the wealthiest neighborhoods in Noxus Prime. Unlike many other districts which are typically cramped, the streets in Mortoraa are luxurious and comfortably spacious. However, at night it has a reputation as the most ominous district, for the streets are never illuminated with torchlight or lanterns.
Uniquely among members of the Black Rose, Vladimir has rarely limited himself to scheming from the shadows. He is very sociable. He prefers to hanging around between the public eye and the secret societies that he built. In the past, he deigned to join the Noxian noble courts during the most interesting of times, only to fade into seclusion decades later. History has lost track of Vladimir on many occasions, though its pages are littered with figures suspected to have been him.
He is aware that his memory would not be able to keep up with his extremely old age. Most of his unnaturally extended life endures not in his memory, but in his chronicles. There were a select few memories that Vladimir refused to forget, and so he labored to do what his mind could not. He wrote books about himself. To remember them, he draws and paints portraits that tell the story that is mostly the turning point of events in the world. Portraits of himself were hung about the circular walls of his castle. His portraits show him at a very different times in his life, and all portraits have different framing or style. Those brief moments their lives touched, what felt like an eternity ago. More melancholy, but fitting perhaps. To Vladimir, there was nothing in the world as beautiful as sadness.
LeBlanc was forced to serve Mordekaiser , whose downfall she would later plan. To do so, she approached Vladimir and the two formed a pact and founded the Black Rose . Vladimir rallied all the Noxii barbarian tribes to siege Mordekaiser's domain while LeBlanc severed the ties of Mordekaiser's magic to The Immortal Bastion , allowing them to be able to defeat The Iron Revenant and end his reign.
LeBlanc considered Vladimir her only equal because she has never met any mage that can she considered to be as powerful as her. LeBlanc is also quite aware of the Darkin power that Vladimir absorbed, and she had hoped she could outlive Vladimir and take his power for her own. She has been waiting centuries for him to grow old and die, and may not yet realize that Vladimir is capable of revitalizing himself to stay young and powerful.
Vladimir is one of the founders of the organization alongside LeBlanc. He aided the Black Rose for centuries, such as conducting Sion's resurrection, creating Briar , and leading a war against Demacia in the past. Vladimir, however, is not interested in the political machinations of the Black Rose, only assisting them when needed. Unlike all other members of the Black Rose, he often stood out among others and preferred to show up in public from time to time.
Over time, their growing differences in ideology led Vladimir to create his own cult - the Crimson Circle , and under his tutelage it found a place publicly in the military of Noxus. The quick growth of the Crimson Circle eventually brought LeBlanc into frequent conflict with Vladimir and his inner circle. Vladimir had already alerted his Crimson Circle members through his letters in which the first line says "Beware the rose ", which also corresponds to Vladimir's ambition to cut ties of his connection to the Black Rose.
Vladimir has recently brought himself back into the public eye, becoming a vocal opponent against the Trifarix Council, and this has caught Swain's attention. However, Vladimir's previous public identity has not been completely forgotten, and it is hinted that Swain may know of Vladimir's true nature.
One day , a troop of Trifarix soldiers attempted to intercept the old aging Vladimir on his way home, and they all ended up killed and absorbed by Vladimir as a part of his plan to revitalize himself. The incident was witnessed by one of Swain's ravens, in noticing which Vladimir became aware that Swain was watching him.
Vladimir fought Galio in the Battle of the Greenfangs against Demacia . So far, Galio is also the only opponent that Vladimir has lost to in battle due to Galio being made from Petricite , a material that can absorb magic.
The nightblooms grown in Vladimir's mansion were taken from a grove once tended by Maokai . Vladimir also dwelled in the Blessed Isles after The Great Darkin War until fleeing shortly before The Ruination of Helia .
Although Viego calls Vladimir his uncle in game, the age gap between them is more than 1500 years and thus they are only distantly related, both descending from the royalty of Camavor . [ 2 ] After Isolde was poisoned, the grief-stricken Viego refused to respond to Vladimir's letter, not knowing Vladimir had the power that could have saved her. [ 3 ]
In The Daring Darling , Vladimir was soul-marked by Kalista , but he was able to banish her with the help of a magical artifact. Kalista is related to Vladimir as well since she is Viego's niece.
Briar was created with hemomancy, a magical art strongly tied to Vladimir, a founding member of the Black Rose. Though his exact relationship with Briar is unclear, it's heavily implied that he was mainly responsible for her creation. As her creator, Briar somewhat considers Vladimir her 'dad'. though she questions whether or not to actually call him that.
The annotated sketch used for Briar's splash art states that she is at Vladimir's castle, acting as a guard dog. [ 4 ] Whether this is true for is unclear, however it does imply a possible relationship between the two after Briar's escape.
The Crimson Reaper
By 'Blood Magicks'
Starring: Vladimir
Mentioned: LeBlanc , Mordekaiser , Swain
Short Story
By Ian St. Martin
Lyvia had nearly found sleep when the light appeared.
Art is Life
By Graham McNeill
Nights in Noxus were never silent.
Mentioned: Galio , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Mordekaiser
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
The Crimson Threat
There’s no escaping him.
The Daring Darling
By Laura Michet
Fayette always warned her guests that the journey from the Shadow Isles back to the Daring Darling's dock would take a whole watch.
Starring: Kalista , Vladimir
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Fiora , Vladimir
The Rivers Shall Run Red
By NeeksNaman
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Starring: LeBlanc , Sion , Swain
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Elise , Jarvan IV , Vladimir
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
To those who still revere him, the Volibear is the storm made manifest. Destructive, wild, and stubbornly resolute, he existed before mortals walked the Freljord's tundra, and is fiercely protective of the lands that he and his demi-god kin created. Cultivating a deep hatred of civilization and the weakness it brought with it, he now fights to return to the old ways—when the land was untamed, and blood spilled freely—and eagerly battles all who oppose him, with tooth, claw, and thundering domination.
Volibear is a massive bear-like creature who can stand on two legs or four. He has glowing blue eyes and his body is covered in shaggy white fur, gradually turning dark gray at his hands and feet. All of his digits feature claws seemingly made of dark blue ice. The same ice is used in runic inscriptions embedded in his upper arms and over his left eye, as well as lightning bolt patterns on his outer lower torso. It also coats his outer thighs like armored plates. The fur on his head and neck is fashioned into a loose ponytail in the back and two long braids which are draped in front of his shoulders and decorated with metal ornaments, also featuring glowing blue runes. He also wears a long, dangling piercing on his right ear.
Even at rest, parts of Volibear seem to glow softly with blue magic. When unleashing his full power, however, his appearance can change drastically. Jagged, icy spikes protrude from his back, the blue ice on his body glows white, and he becomes surrounded by dark storm clouds and crackling lightning.
Volibear is a proud and brutal god that sees the rise of civilization as a weakness. Having been born in ancient primeval times, Volibear believes that strength and brutality are what defines one worth as an individual.
Volibear and the Ursine are allied with Sejuani , Udyr and the Winter's Claw to battle Lissandra's Frostguard and Ashe's Avarosan . However, Volibear has his own ulterior motives for the Freljord. Volibear has very little respect for Udyr , who is a shaman and spirit walker of the Winter's Claw that resisted his calling to the spirit walkers of the Ursine clan.
Lissandra lost her sight from confronting Volibear back in the early days of the Freljord . She has since been actively containing his influence by, for example, killing his shamans and those that may join him as well as sabotaging the worship of all old demigods.
Volibear was close to Ornn but they later became estranged due to their differences in ideologies causing their cataclysmic battle that destroyed the home of Ornn's followers, killing them.
Volibear is on better terms with Anivia because they are both tied to the spirit of the land and want whats best for the Freljord. [ 1 ]
Before becoming the Green Father, Ivern used to worship Volibear.
The Relentless Storm
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné , Rayla Heide
Starring: Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Ornn , Rhond
Short Story
Silence for the Damned
By Odin Austin Shafer
Across the frozen river, the distant, glowing lights promised warmth and food. Udyr imagined a hearth fire crackling inside one of the city's homes. Around the fire, bedding furs rested, prickling with warmth.
Starring: Sejuani , Udyr , Volibear
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Kalkia , Ornn
Song of Nunu
By Tequila Works
Starring: Braum , Layka , Lissandra , Nunu , Ornn , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Gnar , Trundle
Stormbringer
Music Video
You and Me Makes Us
By Numerous creators
Starring: Lissandra , Nunu , Volibear , Willump
Mentioned: Ornn
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Vrynna gritted her teeth to stop them from chattering and forced herself on, trudging through the thick snow.
Starring: Vrynna
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Volibear
Dead of Winter
By Graham McNeill
Even from a distance, Sejuani could see the mammoth was dying.
Starring: Olaf , Sejuani , Urkath
Mentioned: Ashe , Kindred , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
For the fallen. For the deserted. For the downtrodden. And for those who will rise again.
Starring: Kai'Sa , Leona , Olaf , Ornn , Pantheon , Rek'Sai , Sejuani , Taliyah
Mentioned: Volibear
The Dream Thief
By Matthew Dunn
The Ice Witch does not sleep in her citadel.
Starring: Lissandra
The Fire Below the Mountain
Starring: Ornn
Mentioned: Braum , Volibear
The Ice Witch
By Ariel Lawrence
Mentioned: Ashe , Sejuani , Volibear , Zoe
Short Story • 15 Minute Read
The Lost Tales of Ornn
I have never seen the forgotten god. My grandmother told me these tales, but she never saw the forgotten god either—nor did her grandmother before her, or hers before her, a thousand times over. His legends endure only around crackling fires and meals of roasted fish. The further back we trace our ancestors, the truer the tales become.
Mentioned: Anivia , Lissandra , Volibear
The Spirit of Hearth-Home
By Elyse Lemoine , Ty Sheedlo
I remember...
Starring: Aurora , Ornn
Mentioned: Hestrelk , Lissandra , Volibear
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The Voice from the Hearth
No one knew who lit the fire, but we saw the plume of smoke from far away.
Mentioned: Kindred , Volibear
The Witch Between Worlds
By Elyse Lemoine
Starring: Aurora
Mentioned: Anivia , Ornn , Udyr , Volibear
Warmother: Issue 3
By Odin Austin Shafer , Nina Vakueva
Weak and starving, Ashe finds herself utterly alone, until an unexpected ally bursts into action.
Starring: Ashe , Kalkia , Sejuani
Mentioned: Grena , Maalcrom , Volibear
By Riot Paradox
Starring: Evelynn , Trundle , Twitch , Volibear
Mentioned: Irelia
There Will Be Mayhem
Starring: Alistar , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Nasus , Nunu , Teemo , Trundle , Volibear , Willump
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 2
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Sejuani , Varus
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Ezreal , Galio , Irelia , Jayce , Lissandra , Lux , Olaf , Ornn , Skarner , Trundle , Tryndamere , Udyr , Volibear
Harmonies: Issue 2
By Michael Yichao
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
Nunu & Willump: Issue 5
By Ian St. Martin
This comic is an alternate/inspired story of how Nunu and Willump met.
Starring: Layka , Nunu , Willump , Ymaruq
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Warwick is a monster who hunts the gray alleys of Zaun . Transformed by agonizing experiments, his body is fused with an intricate system of chambers and pumps, machinery filling his veins with alchemical rage. Bursting out of the shadows, he preys upon those criminals who terrorize the city's depths. Warwick is drawn to blood, and driven mad by its scent . None who spill it can escape him.
During his past life as a human, Warwick was a Zaunite gangster named Vander who decided to retire from crime (but not revolutionary ideals) and live a better life as a good and honest bartender. Vander adopted both Vi and Jinx as his daughters. A prodigious boxer and a good-hearted man, he was widely respected by the denizens of the undercity and was willing to die for his own ideals, especially if it meant saving those that he cared about. He was eventually captured, experimented and later resurrected on by the mad scientist Singed , who pumped him full of chemicals containing spliced monster DNA in an attempt to transform him into the "beast" he was deep down inside. Although Singed's experiments initially killed Warwick, they later resurrected him as a a biomechanical, werewolf-like beast with an insatiable thirst for blood.
Warwick is a large werewolf-like creature, having a mix of human and canine anatomy. He is covered in bluish-gray fur, though his lower face and the front of his torso are paler. He has a canine muzzle full of massive fangs. His eyes are yellow-green by default but can turn a ferocious red in heated moments. His long, pointed ears have pink skin on the inside. He has a hulking, muscular upper body with slimmer legs and a fluffy tail. As a werewolf, he can move on two legs or get down on all fours. He also has numerous scars all over his body due to lacerations.
Warwick's body is augmented by asymmetrical chemtech machinery composed of brass-colored metal connected by tubes that house glowing green liquid. When Warwick is stressed, this liquid may turn yellow. Most notably, he has a clawed gauntlet on his right forearm and a large cylindrical chamber protruding from his back. This chamber features a single spike, almost giving it the appearance of a syringe. He also wears a pair of brown patchwork pants that are torn and faded.
While not much is known about Warwick's past life, it can be assumed that despite his role as a gangster, Warwick still cared about the well-being of others and sought different ways to better himself, with Singed even describing him as a "good man". However, after Singed's experiments on him, little remained of the old Warwick or his memories, as he was replaced with a bloodthirsty, monstrous creature of pure wrath.
Warwick is a creature in constant pain and wants desperately to remember his past life, but his chemical mutations prevent him from seeking this out. He is proud of his Zaunite origins and holds a special hatred for the chem-barons and the Zaunites who have abandoned the undercity for Piltover . Warwick also sees Yordles as "alpha predators", growing distracted by them like a dog would be by a squirrel.
Even though Warwick has lost most of his memories, he sometimes gets flashes of his former life as a human. These last remaining memories prevent him from harming innocent people and cause him to only attack criminals, specifically those who have blood on their hands.
The Uncaged Wrath of Zaun
By David Slagle
Starring: Warwick
Mentioned: Singed
Arcane (TV Series)
Every legend has a beginning.
Starring: Aero , Amara , Ambessa , Babette , Benzo , Billingsworth , Bolbok , Caitlyn , Cassandra , Chross , Claggor , Deckard , Ekko , Elora , Finn , Gorgeous Man , Grayson , Harold , Heimerdinger , Hoskel , Huck , Jayce , Jericho , Jinx , Jules , LeBlanc , Lock , Marcus , Margot , Mel , Mylo , Pim , Ren , Renni , Salo , Sevika , Shoola , Silco , Singed , Sky , Smeech , Thieram , Tobias , Vander , Verne , Vi , Viktor , Warwick , Ximena
Mentioned: Janna , Teemo
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Eye of the Beast
SUBJECT 1088. BEGIN REPORT.
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
If They Run
I find her near the Black Lanes, where merchants and thieves do business. Anything is for sale. Everything is stolen. I could kill them all.
The Wrath of Zaun
In Zaun's Gray-filled streets, the criminal underworld is hunted by an engineered beast.
Engineering the Nightmare
By Phillip Vargas
Procured a cutthroat hiding among the populace and feigning civility. Only a disciplined eye could recognize the beast within, yearning for release. How could I refuse? For what is my work if not an attempt to reveal life's hidden truths through science? It required two doses to subdue him. Impressively resilient. A necessary quality to survive the grand catalyst of pain and provoke the transmutation. The metamorphosis will reshape the man into a chimeric predator, and all of Zaun will be its hunting grounds.
Starring: Singed
Mentioned: Warwick
The Mad Chemist
By Ian St. Martin
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Kindred , Neeko , Ornn , Pantheon , Warwick
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Rise of the Elements
Starring: Azir , Kindred , Ornn , Warwick
Unite Against The Dark
Hear the story of Lunar Empress Lux, Lunar Guardian Nasus, and Lunar Guardian Warwick as we celebrate the Year of the Dog in League of Legends.
Starring: Caitlyn , Lux , Morgana , Nasus , Warwick
Welcome to League of Legends
Starring: Alistar , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Katarina , Kayle , Master Yi , Morgana , Nasus , Ryze , Warwick
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 1
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Aatrox , Bristle , Draven , Garen , Illaoi , Malphite , Nagakabouros , Quinn , Ryze , Sejuani , Trundle , Tryndamere , Valor , Warwick
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
A band of cybernetic castoffs plans to infiltrate The City to destroy the entity that created—and then abandoned—them: the PROJECT Corporation.
Starring: Akali , Irelia , Jinx , Pyke
Mentioned: Ashe , Lucian , Warwick
Playtime with Gnar: Series 2
By Rachel J. Corey
Starring: Gnar
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Fiddlesticks , Lux , Soraka , Vi , Viktor , Warwick
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Wukong is a vastayan trickster who uses his strength, agility, and intelligence to confuse his opponents and gain the upper hand. After finding a lifelong friend in the warrior known as Master Yi , Wukong became the last student of the ancient martial art known as Wuju. Armed with an enchanted staff, Wukong seeks to prevent Ionia from falling to ruin.
Kong is a member of the Shimon , a monkey-like species of Vastaya who sought wisdom throughout their lives and turn into stone-like forms upon death to begin the cycle anew. Kong used to play pranks on the other Shimon to their annoyance, and once told them that an elemental dragon was going to burn down their home. While they all fled in fear, Kong was laughing. This caused the other Shimon to run out of patience with him and kick him out of the tribe, so Kong decided to find people who would appreciate his sense of humor. He proclaimed himself "The Monkey King" and challenged humans to duels or games of cunning. One time, he encountered a group of Noxians whom chased him into the forest, and he didn't reveal himself until he was sure that they had left.
Kong wished to meet the combat masters of Wuju , but to his shock the Wuju village had already been destroyed by the Noxian forces, and there was only a single man who meditated in the ruins. Kong decided to challenge him to a fight, but the warrior beat him instantly. For weeks, Wukong kept challenging him, only to be outsmarted and beaten no matter which angle he came from or which strategies he used, even trying to distract him with hilarious jokes or tampering with his tea.
Kong knelt to the warrior and asked to learn his ways. He accepted and introduced himself as Master Yi , the last master of Wuju, and promised to help turn the Shimon's recklessness into a skilled fighting style. As the two trained together, Yi refused to talk about his past nor why he refused to leave the village. Kong decided to challenge Yi to a duel, making a deal where if Kong won then Yi would tell him his secrets, but if Yi won then Kong would not speak for a year. Yi eagerly accepted the challenge. When the day came, Kong lured Yi into a field of smokepoppies. As Yi was about to make his move on Kong, he instead hit a straw decoy while the real Kong struck him by surprise and grappled him to the ground.
Afterwards, Yi told Kong the truth: he and his disciples had left to defend Ionia from the Noxian troops, but the village was destroyed and most of the villagers had been killed by the attack, leaving Yi as a sole survivor and one of the only Wuju practitioners currently left in existence. Kong realized that he had wanted to protect the Shimon the same way, despite them casting him out. Proud of his student and finding a new sense of purpose thanks to him, Master Yi gave Wukong a special staff reserved for the best students of Wuju. From then, Kong was given the name Wukong.
Even after the war had long passed, the Noxians were still encroaching Ionia and oppressing the natives. Wukong and Master Yi made it their mission to combat injustice and hatred wherever they found it.
Wukong’s weapon is the Ruyi Jingu Bang , a seemingly simple iron staff that lengthens and shrinks at his command. Its surface is a dark metallic gray with faint engravings, and when in use it radiates a subtle glow, suggesting an inner power.
In his physical form, Wukong is a lithe but muscular Vastayan with distinctly simian features. His fur is a golden-brown tone, lighter across his face, chest, and tail, with darker markings along his arms and legs. His eyes are sharp and expressive, and his long tail moves with constant energy, often reflecting his mood.
He wears light armor designed for speed and movement, including golden bracers, red sashes, and plated pauldrons . The patterns across his gear are ornate but practical, giving him both a martial and regal presence. His stance is typically loose and confident, staff in hand, balanced between readiness and playfulness.
Even back when he was known as Kong, Wukong was always proud of his own fighting skills and wished to be the best. He enjoys boasting about himself and dared anyone to question his abilities. He used to have a habit of playing pranks on the other Shimon , and had no qualms about crossing any lines since he had scared the other Shimon into hysteria and didn't regret it when they kicked him out of the tribe.
He always wanted to challenge Master Yi because he admired Yi's skills and wanted to be respected back. Training with Yi has humbled Wukong significantly, to the point where he realized the true worth of defending his people, and he values Master Yi's teachings a lot. Even though Wukong still remains arrogant, sometimes his more reckless manners of approach can turn out better than the slow and safe ways like Yi's methods.
Vastayan Physiology: As a member of the Shimon tribe, Wukong possesses heightened agility, reflexes, and physical strength compared to humans. His simian traits grant him exceptional climbing ability, endurance, and a long prehensile tail that he uses both for balance and combat.
Enhanced Longevity: Like other vastaya , Wukong ages much slower than humans. This longevity has allowed him decades of training and mastery without showing significant signs of aging.
Illusory Duplication: Wukong is able to conjure illusions of himself to confuse enemies, evade attacks, and strike from unexpected angles. These copies appear indistinguishable from Wukong for a short time, allowing him to disorient foes in combat.
Cloudwalking: Channeling his vastayan essence and martial training, Wukong can dash swiftly across the battlefield, moving with the speed and lightness of wind and cloud. This makes him nearly untouchable in close quarters and able to engage or disengage with ease.
Staff Mastery: Wukong wields the enchanted staff Ruyi Jingu Bang , a weapon capable of shifting its size, weight, and length at his command. In battle, he uses it with unmatched martial skill, striking with sweeping arcs, sudden extensions, and devastating force.
Martial Discipline: Trained in the Wuju style, Wukong has honed his body and mind to excel in combat. His techniques emphasize speed, deception, and precision, blending playful trickery with disciplined mastery.
Wukong was trained in the Art of Wuju by Master Yi . Wukong's original name was 'Kong'. When Kong agreed to become his student, Master Yi dubbed him 'Wukong', effectively naming him after the Wuju style. Due to this, they share two similar quotes .
Wukong and Ahri are listed as related champions for unknown reason, possibly because of both being Vastaya .
Ting was once a pupil of Wukong, but he was so overconfident in his own Wuju skills that Wukong sent him to Master Yi to teach him humility. [ 1 ]
The Monkey King
By Anthony Burch
Starring: Wukong
Mentioned: Master Yi
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
Fast and Dumb
When a life hangs in the balance, there are two options: slow and smart, or fast and dumb.
Short Story
By Michael Luo
Returning once more to his home, Master Yi faces his past and prepares for what the future will bring.
Starring: Master Yi
Mentioned: Doran , Wukong
The Wuju Bladesman
Dawn by Raid
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Leona , Wukong , Yone
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Lunar Guardian
By Numerous creators
There was an age when darkness smothered all hope. A traveler arrived, late into that twilight hour, bearing with him the first light of dawn.
Starring: Caitlyn , Morgana , Wukong
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Deadly and precise, Xayah is a vastayan revolutionary waging a personal war to save her people. She uses her speed, guile, and razor-sharp feather blades to cut down anyone who stands in her way. Xayah fights alongside her partner and lover, Rakan , to protect their dwindling tribe and restore their race to her vision of its former glory.
It is said that Xayah met Rakan when he realised that she was the only woman that wouldn't fall for his charms. This intrigued him, perusing her later on.
Xayah is a slender Vastaya Lhotlan with white skin, yellow eyes, pointed ears like birds, and long, red hair. She wears simple drifter clothes with a distinct palette of dark red, purple, burgundy and some brown accents. The most distinctive ornament in her attire is her feathered cape, which is dark with shades between burgundy red and purple. She also has several blades made of feathers floating around her.
Xayah is a Lhotlan Vastayan who travels Ionia on a crusade to ensure her people's survival and independence. After meeting and getting in a relationship with Rakan , both travel Ionia to preserve Ionia's natural magic from being controlled by humans. They are still not married, since she wants to hear him proposing to her everyday.
Xayah and Rakan fought Zed and his Order of the Shadow to prevent them from harvesting a magical grove.
By Matthew Dunn
Starring: Xayah
Mentioned: Rakan
Short Story
A Piece of Shadow Cake
By Odin Austin Shafer
Xayah jumped upward into the trees' foliage, dodging the gunfire that exploded from the temple's walls.
Starring: Rakan , Xayah , Zed
Short Story • 7 Minute Read
Puboe Prison Break
Rakan is the worst.
Restoring the wild magic of Ionia won't be easy when a deadly enemy lurks in the shadows.
Short Story • 8 Minute Read
Nothing Rhymes with Tubebow
Two paths lead to the monastery fortress from the villages below it,' Xayah begins.
Starring: Rakan
Mentioned: Xayah
The Charmer
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Another Sky: Wild Rift Edition
By Ty Sheedlo
Join the Star Guardians as they fight for the future by saving a ghost from their past!
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Music Video
Everything Goes On
By Porter Robinson
Together with some familiar faces, a new generation of Star Guardians ascend to battle a looming threat. But even when confronted with eternal darkness, their hope burns brighter than fear.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Kai'Sa , Nilah , Orianna , Rakan , Rell , Senna , Seraphine , Sona , Taliyah , Xayah
Mentioned: Ahri , Lux , Miss Fortune
Light and Shadow
By Numerous creators
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
The school year comes and goes, but we’ll share these memories forever.
Starring: Orianna , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Star-Crossed: Clockwork
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah grapples with what it means to be a leader, but her latest Star Guardian recruit may be the rational, logical antidote to her angst and axiety.
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Rakan
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Mentioned: Zoe
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
Star-Crossed: Shine So Bright
Xayah's search for Star Guardian allies brings her to, of all places, a concert in the park. Is this bubbly popstar with a penchant for glitter the teammates she's been looking for?
Starring: Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
By Ariel Lawrence
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
We're Taking Over.
Mentioned: Caitlyn , Galio , Jarvan IV , Kassadin , Lee Sin , Thresh , Xayah
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Xerath is an Ascended Magus of ancient Shurima , a being of arcane energy writhing in the broken shards of a magical sarcophagus . For millennia, he was trapped beneath the desert sands, but the rise of Shurima freed him from his ancient prison. Driven insane with power, he now seeks to take what he believes is rightfully his and replace the upstart civilizations of the world with one fashioned in his image.
Three thousand years ago in the ancient Shuriman city of Nerimazeth lived a boy who would be raised as a nameless slave. Despite this harsh environment, the boy was lucky to have loving parents who were able to teach him to read and write, as well as mathematics and history in hopes that these skills could one day lead him to a better life.
By a stroke of fate, these skills would prove useful to the young slave when he met the young prince Azir , who befriended the boy and named him Xerath ("one who shares") for sharing his knowledge in the library. The least favorite son of the Emperor, Azir was an outcast of the royal family and thus had no problem befriending a lowly slave. Xerath became Azir's attendant, and when he saved the young prince's life from an band of assassins, their bond only strengthened. While the Emperor was furious that his other sons had been killed in the attack (leaving Azir as the sole heir to the throne), Azir himself was grateful and promised Xerath to one day end all slavery in Shurima .
Years passed, and the Emperor sought to produce a new heir to the throne. Having studied the history of past Shuriman emperors, Xerath knew that Azir's life was in danger and suggested he learn to fight in case an assassin attacked. In return for his advice, Azir promoted Xerath, and with his new position as the prince's right hand Xerath gained access to the forbidden vaults of Shurima's ancient libraries. To protect his friend from the Emperor's wrath, Xerath studied the arts of dark sorcery to place a curse on the queen so she would be unable to carry a child to term.
For a time, the curse worked, and Xerath was able to successfully murder each of the Emperor's children before they could be born. But the spell's effect didn't work forever, and eventually the queen gave birth to a son. With no other option, Xerath called upon deadly arcane magic to summon a storm around the queen's chambers, killing her, the Emperor, their guards, and the newborn prince. Xerath blamed mages in the conquered regions of the empire for the assassination, and who would have to face Azir's retribution.
When Azir was crowned Emperor of Shurima, Xerath was ecstatic to be seated at his right hand. But one thing still bothered him: Azir's promise to one day free the slaves so he and Azir could be as brothers. But Azir refused, scolding Xerath for stepping out of line and stating that the release of all the slaves too quickly would lead to the collapse of the Shuriman empire. Furious at this betrayal, Xerath began to secretly plot against his friend, manipulating the young Emperor from the shadows over the next few decades. As Azir's most trusted advisor, Xerath made sure to slowly increase his own power in the empire bit by bit in hopes of one day seizing Shurima for himself.
Azir's reign as emperor was long and prosperous, and Xerath was at his side, biding his time. Over decades of studying old legends, Xerath formulated a plan that would grant him the power of the gods. The power of Ascension , used by Shuriman heroes of old, could grant Xerath immortality, invulnerability, and the perfect opportunity to usurp the throne. Feeding into the Emperor's hubris, Xerath suggested that Azir, Shurima's greatest emperor, should undergo the ritual that would allow him to join the ranks of Shurima's greatest heroes. Blinded by vanity, Azir agreed with Xerath against the Sun Priests' wishes, and on the day of the ritual Azir made his way to the Dais of Ascension at The Sun Disc .
However, just before Xerath sprung his plan into motion, the magus was shocked when Azir turned around and embraced him, naming him his eternal brother and ending slavery across Shurima. The Emperor's words touched Xerath, but did not sway him from his plans. His ambition was too strong, and as far as Xerath was concerned the gesture had come decades too late. In a swift blast of arcane magic, Xerath vaporized his former friend and took his place at the pedestal, hijacking the ritual to steal the power of the sun itself. The motion caused the collapse of the Sun Disc, the city, and the empire itself, killing everyone in sight as Xerath ascended to the power of the gods.
Horrified by the magus' treachery, the God-Warrior brothers Renekton and Nasus arrived with a magical sarcophagus to imprison Xerath before he could transform. But it was too late, as Xerath shattered the prison and revealed himself as a being of pure, limitless arcane energy. A great battle followed, which ended in the sacrifice of Renekton as he dragged Xerath into the Tomb of Emperors to be locked away by Nasus, where the two Ascended would continue their battle for thousands of years. Over time, Xerath would twist the weakened Renekton's mind into that of a savage beast, a hollow shell of his former self waiting to be released from eternal darkness.
Thousands of years after Shurima's fall, the ancient Tomb of Emperors was discovered by Noxian noblewoman Cassiopeia and Sivir , the last in Azir's bloodline. After Cassiopeia betrayed Sivir and unsealed the tomb, she was cursed, and from the sand and rubble emerged Xerath and the now insane Renekton.
Declaring himself the new Emperor of Shurima, Xerath made his way into the desert seeking new knowledge about the world after millennia trapped beneath the sands. After a battle with Pantheon , the Targonian Aspect of War, Xerath was able to claim the city of Nerimazeth for himself, designating it his base of operations to gather information and restore his strength. Xerath felt Shurima's rise and the rebirth of the newly-Ascended Azir, and knows that this is just the beginning. In time, all mortals will come to serve him...
Xerath is made of pure arcane energy with rocks from his tomb embedded into his person and a chain holding them to his body. Prominent in his appearance is an octagonal piece of rock with a yellow swirl on the centre of it and his head is like the top half of a football and curved downwards and has two eye sockets so he can see.
As a young boy, Xerath was a generally kind and empathetic person despite his harsh upbringing as a slave. He was shown to be helpful when he met Azir in the library, and even risked his own life to save Azir from the assassin. As a researcher, Xerath was described to be curious and meticulous when carrying out tasks, and proved to be unusually intelligent, with Azir relying on him for advice for the vast majority of his lifetime.
However, when Xerath began to study dark sorcery, things began to change. Xerath revealed a patiently ambitious, manipulative, even Machiavellian side of himself, cursing and later killing the queen and the emperor with little remorse and simply blaming his actions on an already oppressed region within the empire to suffer Azir's wrath. While Xerath assured himself his heinous crimes were simply to protect Azir, this quickly changed as soon as Azir got in the way of Xerath's goals and aspirations, as he immediately started plotting his old friend's demise. However, Xerath does feel a hint of remorse for treachery after Azir makes good on his promise to free all slaves, but even this is not enough to stop Xerath from putting his plans into action.
As the Magus Ascendant, Xerath becomes a godlike megalomaniac with little regard for mortal life, believing that his immortality and prowess in dark sorcery makes him a superior being with the sole right to rule over all mankind. He doesn't regret the cataclysm that resulted from his actions, and even enjoyed his psychological torment of Renekton , showcasing a new found sadism. The defining part of Xerath's personality is his refusal to be a slave to anyone, but as his story suggests, even with the godlike power he has found, he still remains a slave to his own ambition and insanity.
Nasus and Renekton imprisoned Xerath after the fall of Shurima , but the older brother had to trap his own sibling with him. Xerath is allied with Renekton as they spent millennia together trapped in a tomb. He drove Renekton mad over the ages and turned him into a relentless creature of pure anger. Xerath does not see Renekton as a noble hero, he represents power being granted to the few by a corrupt society. In Xerath's eyes, Renekton helped to guard a city of subjugation. [ 1 ] Xerath later fought Nasus when The Curator of the Sands was trying to protect Sivir , Taliyah and the citizens of Vekaura from Xerath.
Everything Xerath had done prior to Ascension- heinous as his acts of murder were - were all done out of a twisted sense of loyalty to Azir . When that went unsatisfied Xerath sought the power to free himself from being a slave and tear down the decadent society built on the backs of slaves. From his perspective, Xerath was punishing an injustice against the man who had promised him freedom, but had never given it to him. Azir has returned ascended himself, and is a threat to Xerath. Xerath is hunting down Sivir since her inheriting Azir's royal bloodline may prove a threat to him.
According to Ryze , Xerath is an 'abomination of magic' and that his hold over the magical powers he wields is 'feeble'.
Xerath has fought Pantheon and dozens of Rakkor soldiers.
Samira's home was destroyed by his followers.
The Magus Ascendant
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Sivir
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Descent into the Tomb
Scroll after scroll in Noxian libraries chronicle the power buried within Shurima. Now Cassiopeia thinks she's found the key. Learn how the saga began.
Starring: Azir , Cassiopeia , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
Mentioned: Nasus
Fall of the Empire
By Numerous creators
Starring: Azir , Nasus , Renekton , Xerath
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
This was the moment.
Mentioned: Azir
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
Azir walked the gold-paved Emperor's Way. The immense statues of Shurima's earliest rulers – his ancestors – watched his progress.
Starring: Azir
Mentioned: Sivir , Xerath
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Darkness Renews
Am I a god?
Starring: Renekton
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Xerath
Short Story
Everything We Should Have Said
By Michael Luo
K’Sante wipes his forehead, his bloodied fingers catching sweat and dirt...
Starring: K'Sante , Tope
Mentioned: Xerath
For Those Who Have Fallen
By David Slagle
When I land in the ruins of Nerimazeth, it does not feel as if I have leapt, celestial magic burning my path across the sky, but as if I have fallen. I am, after all, only a man.
Starring: Pantheon
By Ryan Verniere
Nasus walked at night, unwilling to face the sun. The boy followed in his wake.
Starring: Nasus
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Xerath
The Battle Mistress
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Sivir
Mentioned: Azir , Cassiopeia , Nasus , Renekton , Taliyah , Xerath
The Butcher of the Sands
Mentioned: Azir , Nasus , Sivir , Xerath
The Curator of the Sands
The Desert Rose
Starring: Samira
Mentioned: Indari , Xerath
The Emperor of the Sands
Mentioned: Nasus , Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
The Pride of Nazumah
Starring: K'Sante
Mentioned: Azir , Tope , Xerath
Water and Shade To You
For the first time Khari could remember, flowers grew on the street leading from the town square to the Cut.
Mentioned: Renekton , Sivir , Xerath
By Institute of War
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
The Seeker's Tale
By Christina Norman
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Sejuani , Xerath
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Xin Zhao is a resolute warrior loyal to the royal family of Demacia . Once condemned to the fighting pits of Noxus , he survived countless gladiatorial bouts. It was not until he faced the forces of King Jarvan III in battle that he decided to relinquish his past life, in favor of serving what he saw as a more honorable cause. Armed with his favored three-talon spear, Xin Zhao now fights for his adopted kingdom, audaciously challenging any foe, no matter the odds.
He eventually sacrifices himself to let the Darkin Zaahen to take over his body to vanquish the Demon Atakhan .
Xin Zhao was born in Ionia , raised on a fisherman's ship named Viscero. One day, they ended up crossing into the waters of Noxus , where a Noxian ship captured them and took them to Noxus. Unfamiliar with this new land, Xin Zhao rose above the ranks with his expert spearmanship, so Noxus offered him a chance to live a better life. He reluctantly accepted and entered the arenas of the Reckoners and took the name Viscero after his first home.
Viscero was a famous warrior amongst the arena, with the crowd cheering for the carnage he inflicted while the other Reckoners grew to fear him. But eventually, Boram Darkwill made a decree to privately free Noxian mercenaries, prisoners or Reckoners (Xin Zhao included) to send them to fight for Noxus in other nations. Xin Zhao was transported to Demacia , where he faced against many Demacian soldiers. Most of his fellow Reckoners ran away, but Xin Zhao refused to give up. When he was confronted by soldiers, he welcomed them to execute him, but he was instead spared and imprisoned. At his request, Xin Zhao was taken to meet their king, Jarvan III .
While his guard Tianna repeatedly threatened him, Jarvan III was more easygoing and listened to him. After their conversation, he offered Xin Zhao a bag of money to go back to his real home, but since Demacia had shown him the true meaning of the ideals he strove for, he wanted to join his guard (to Tianna's shock). He asked how Xin Zhao could prove he was capable, so he snatched a guard's spear and fought off the guards before pointing the spear at the king's throat. He apologized and prepared to get killed, but Jarvan III forgave him and accepted him into his ranks. Tianna was still distrustful of him, but Xin Zhao swore an oath to her that if something happened to Jarvan III, she would kill him by her own hand. Xin Zhao grew to become very close friends with Jarvan III (even being adopted into the Lightshield family), and taught Prince Jarvan IV to raise him into an honorable king. He believed that Demacia was where he truly belonged, serving them not for duty, but his own choice.
One day, Jarvan III sent Xin Zhao on a mission of critical importance, so he left. By the time he got back, a mage rebellion led by Sylas of Dregbourne broke out and Jarvan III had been killed. Xin Zhao felt huge guilt for his mistake, believing it was his own fault Jarvan III died. Jarvan IV requested Xin Zhao for a training spar, where he vented all of his grief and anger towards Xin Zhao for leaving his father to die. When Jarvan IV broke down in tears for the loss of his father, Xin Zhao comforted him. Afterwards, Jarvan IV told Xin Zhao to burn the letter he was meant to deliver, as it was a request for Jarvan III to the leader of the Mageseekers to be more accepting of mages, but since Jarvan IV grew to hate mages due to believing Sylas and his mages to have killed his father. Xin Zhao reluctantly followed the prince's request and burned the letter, accepting what was to come.
With all of the civil unrest in Demacia, Xin Zhao was needed more than ever. With Jarvan IV forced to take the mantle as king, Xin Zhao swore his loyalty to him and promised to guide him for the days to come.
He and Yunara assault Atakhan as the demon attempts to corrupt Ionia's temple and it surrounding. He is forced to sacrifice himself to enable the Darkin Zaahen to over his body in order to vanquish Atakhan.
Xin Zhao was originally an Ionian born Noxian gladiator who pledged his service to Jarvan III, Jarvan IV's father, after he spared the lives of those who fought at Kalstead. He later became as close to the king and the young prince as a family member.
Xin Zhao took an oath to Tianna Crownguard that she may kill him should anything happen to king Jarvan III.
The Seneschal of Demacia
By Michael Luo
Starring: Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Jarvan III , Jarvan IV , Sylas
Short Story
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
The first rays of dawn brushed the rooftops of the Great City, turning pale stone to gold. The air was still, and the only sounds filtering up to the high garden terraces on the east side of the citadel were the gentle chorus of morning birds and the hushed murmur of the waking city below.
Starring: Jarvan IV , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Eldred , Jarvan III
What Once Sailed Free
My father once said Noxus wasted its talent in those arenas. Now I see the truth in his words.
Starring: Jarvan III , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Jarvan IV
Tellstones: King's Gambit (Video)
Can you play like a champion?
Starring: Cithria
Mentioned: Fiora , Garen , Jarvan IV , Lux , Quinn , Sona , Taric , Valor , Xin Zhao
The Exemplar of Demacia
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Jarvan IV
Mentioned: Garen , Jarvan III , Shyvana , Sion , Tianna , Xin Zhao
Almost Home
Five unlikely friends band together to discover that home isn’t just a place—it’s a feeling.
Starring: Diana , Sett , Teemo , Tristana , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Amumu , Sejuani , Sylas
Ambition's Embrace
By Michael Yichao
Bound by darkness.
Starring: Ashe , Kassadin , Lulu , Lux , Master Yi , Rakan , Thresh , Xayah , Xin Zhao
Mentioned: Jhin , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Xerath
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
A Hero Awakens
What secrets lie beneath the shards?
Starring: Ezreal , Lissandra , Lux
Mentioned: Amumu , Diana , Kindred , Teemo , Xin Zhao
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
An Ionian of deep resolve, Yasuo is an agile swordsman who wields the air itself against his enemies. As a proud young man, he was falsely accused of murdering his master—unable to prove his innocence, he was forced to slay his own brother in self-defense. In time, his master's true killer was revealed, and his brother mysteriously returned from death, yet Yasuo still could not forgive himself for all he had done. Now, he wanders the world with only the wind to guide his blade.
Yasuo was born in an Ionian village after his father came like an autumn wind into the life of his mother, who was already a widow. His father had left by the time winter settled over the land.
Yasuo grew up to be very close to his half-brother, Yone . However, in contrast to Yone’s respectful and patient personality, Yasuo was often arrogant and impulsive. But after being accepted into the village’s renowned sword school, his determination and talent caught the attention of Elder Souma, the last master of the legendary wind technique. He initially refused the tutelage of Elder Souma, but then Yone gave him a maple seed, symbolizing his plea for Yasuo to show humility. Subsequently, Yasuo accepted the master’s offer and became his apprentice and bodyguard.
Yasuo continued to train in the sword school, and his use of the wind technique made his sparring sessions with Yone a sight to behold.
When news of the Noxian invasion and the Great Stand at Navori reached the school, many of the disciples, including Yone, chose to help defend against the approaching Noxians. Yasuo, however, was ordered to stay back and defend his elders.
Soon, Yasuo heard drums of a Noxian march and chose to go out and face the enemy, thinking he could turn the tide of the battle. But when he arrived at the battlefield, he found death everywhere. Something unnatural had caused hundreds of Noxians and Ionians to perish.
When Yasuo returned to the school, he found himself surrounded by the remaining students and learned that his master was dead. They accused him of murder, so he fought his way free in the hopes of punishing the true killer.
When Yasuo was tracked down by Yone, they clashed swords, and Yasuo cut down his half-brother, who died before he could grant any absolution.
Yasuo appears to be a fairly stocky adult man, fair skin with a scar on his nose, brown eyes with green highlights, back-length hair tied in a ponytail, and has a shadow of a beard.
his attire consists of a rather torn Ionic samurai-style armor, on his right he has a part of metal armor and the rest is a torn light blue armor that exposes part of his chest, baggy pants, a cloth that covers part of his chest and the face and always carries with him his sword.
Yasuo is an Ionian swordsman once accused of treason for allegedly murdering Elder Souma, his own master whom he was supposed to protect. He was hunted down across the island continent under the evidence that the killer employed a wind technique, one that only Yasuo has mastered in the present day. He was forced to kill his former allies, likely the entirety of his school.
He later crossed paths with Taliyah while on the run, teaching the Shuriman stone mage how to control her powers. When they parted ways, she gifted him a long thread from her handspun wool tunic which he uses to tie his hair up.
After parting way with Taliyah, Yasuo became determined to find the true killer of his Elder. He suspected Riven of being the Elder's killer and confronted her. This was previously evidenced in interaction quotes with her.
"Wait, that technique ... huh" "Huh, three swift strikes... " "Another wind blade?" "Who taught you that ?" Eventually, Riven confessed to unintentionally killing Elder Souma, whose wind technique shattered her blade and killed him with a stray shard. However, Yasuo admitted to dereliction of duty, for he could have protected Elder Souma had he not left to engage the Noxians . Despite being cleared of his accusations, Yasuo is still infamously known across Ionia as the killer of his master.
Yasuo's presence or absence making a difference was highlighted during Riven's trial, when he focused the Wind Technique on Riven's sword as Souma would have, and the shard that killed his master nearly did the same to Asa Konte, Riven's adopted father. This time, Yasuo was able to stop the shard before it could cause any harm.
In the second Noxian invasion of Ionia , Irelia's call for help to defend a seaside village from the Noxian army including Sion was met by Akali , Karma , Kennen and Yasuo whose arrival turned the tide of the battle.
Yasuo is the younger half-brother to Yone , who he was very close to. Yone taught Yasuo many important lessons when he was young. When Yasuo was running away when accused of killing Elder Souma, Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was heartbroken and filled with negative thoughts and feelings that fed an unknown azakana. When Yone finally caught up, Yasuo was forced to kill his own brother whose death would haunt him for a long time.
Later, when Yasuo went to the Spirit Blossom festival in Weh'le , he was confronted by a resurrected Yone who was trying to kill an azakana that pretended to be a monk from the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). order. [ 1 ] After Yasuo let go of his own past, his brother defeated it. Although Yasuo offered to let Yone have vengeance for his death, he replied that Yasuo might deserve death, but it wouldn't be from Yone. With that, Yasuo stated Ionia had nothing left for him and they parted ways in peace, with Yone saying that even the wind has a path and hoping that the Spirit of Ionia guides his brother.
He came across Ahri who was trying to find a guard. They then went to Bilgewater together. During the events of Ruined King , Yasuo, Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune and Pyke set sail to the Shadow Isles to stop Viego from endangering Bilgewater. After the events of Ruined King , Yasuo left Bilgewater to head to Noxus to search for Riven because he believes that she may need help there. But not before making sure Braum returns to the Freljord safely.
The Unforgiven
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Yasuo
Mentioned: Azir , Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Music Video
By Numerous creators
A deadly masterpiece unfolds. A lone resistance made whole. A chance to come alive.
Starring: Akali , Camille , Draven , Irelia , Jhin , Karma , Kennen , Riven , Sion , Yasuo
Short Story
Brotherhood
The source of the crying is a boy. Six, maybe seven summers.
Mentioned: Yone
Short Story • 9 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 3
As the trial concludes, Riven must finally face the horrors of her past.
Starring: Riven , Yasuo
Kin of the Stained Blade
Not forgiven. Not forgotten.
Starring: Ahri , Yasuo , Yone
Kingdom (Video)
RISE AGAINST RUIN.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke , Viego , Yasuo
Orchid's Bloom
By Michael Yichao
Jing breathed deep.
Mentioned: Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Past, present, and possible futures—we remember them all.
Starring: Aatrox , Ashe , Kayle , Kindred , Morgana , Tryndamere , Yasuo
Short Story • 19 Minute Read
The Bird and the Branch
A young stone mage from Shurima encounters an unlikely mentor in the mountains of Ionia.
Starring: Taliyah , Yasuo
Mentioned: Azir
Take the first step and begin your climb.
Starring: Blitzcrank , Ekko , Illaoi , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Senna , Taliyah , Thresh , Xerath , Yasuo
Mentioned: Nagakabouros
Short Story • 1 Minute Read
The Road to Ruin
By Robert Lo , Joe Lansford
When I was a child, my brother asked me: "Does the wind flee, or does it follow?"
A Sword without a Sheath
What is a sword without the man behind it? Teaching a swordsman to kill is simple. The true challenge lies in teaching him not to kill.
Starring: Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Short Story • 36 Minute Read
By Graham McNeill
Taliyah had almost forgotten how much she'd missed the furnace heat of Shurima – the sweat and crush of hundreds of people pushing, cursing, haggling and speaking with such passion and speed that outsiders often thought they were fighting.
Starring: Nasus , Sivir , Taliyah , Xerath
Mentioned: Azir , Renekton , Yasuo
Short Story • 11 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 1
In the wake of war between Noxus and Ionia, Riven is accused of a heinous crime.
Starring: Riven
Mentioned: Yasuo , Yone
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
The Stoneweaver
Starring: Taliyah
Mentioned: Azir , Yasuo
The Unforgotten
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Virtual hip-hop group True Damage was born when K/DA's lead rapper Akali sought to bring together the distinct talents of Ekko, Senna, Qiyana, and Yasuo in an ambitious, genre-defying collaboration.
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Fight for Final City
When Anima Squad stands together, the Primordians don’t stand a chance.
Starring: Aatrox , Briar , Illaoi , Seraphine , Yasuo
By True Damage
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Harmonies: Issue 1
In a difficult moment during a recording secession, Akali reassures a nervous Seraphine that K/DA's bonds run deep.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ekko , Ezreal , Graves , Qiyana , Senna
Harmonies: Issue 4
Kai'Sa dances through life, finding her way to present moment as a part of K/DA.
Mentioned: Kassadin
Harmonies: Issue 5
Ahri reflects on the long road that led to her forming K/DA: breaking old bonds while establishing new ties, navigating the flood of attention (and expectation) following their initial success, and looking forward to their bright future.
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Sharp: Issue 1
Learn more about K/DA and their upcoming ALL OUT EP in this very special edition of SHARP magazine. Read through over 16 dedicated pages about Ahri, Evelynn, Kai’Sa and Akali, and how the pop group sensation renewed their ambitions since the launch of their electric 2018 debut single, POP/STARS. Discover how K/DA staged their comeback with THE BADDEST, the first song of their new and long-awaited EP, and meet Seraphine, their talented new collaborator. This special edition of SHARP also includes a special quiz to prove to yourself and your friend that you are a real BLADE!
Mentioned: Ivern , Lux
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Kai'Sa , Lucian , Qiyana , Yasuo
Unstoppable
“Nothing's going to stop me.” Inspired by the true story of Doublelift, Team Liquid ADC and five-time North American LCS champion. It's On.
Starring: Jhin , Jinx , Lucian , Thresh , Viktor , Yasuo
Unto Darkness, Unto Light
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Coming Alive
By Numerous Creators
In the fight of a lifetime, you may get knocked down. But never knocked out.
Starring: Samira , Shaco , Viego
Mentioned: Draven , Evelynn , Gwen , Irelia , Jhin , Lux , Naafiri , Nilah , Sett , Yasuo
Harmonies: Issue 2
Seraphine navigates a life-changing moment as she embraces her dream becoming reality.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Evelynn , Kai'Sa , Seraphine
Mentioned: Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra , Volibear , Yasuo
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The battle begins, and sixteen teams across the globe are fighting towards one goal – to win the League of Legends World Championship.
Mentioned: Ashe , Darius , Draven , Garen , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Leona , Lissandra , Nasus , Renekton , Riven , Ryze , Vi , Yasuo
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
In life, he was Yone — half-brother of Yasuo , and renowned student of his village's sword school. But upon his death at the hands of his brother, he found himself hunted by a malevolent entity of the spirit realm , and was forced to slay it with its own sword. Now, cursed to wear its demonic mask upon his face, Yone tirelessly hunts all such creatures in order to understand what he has become.
Yone was the older half-brother of Yasuo . While Yasuo was impulsive and arrogant, Yone was disciplined and patient.
As Yone trained in the village's renowned sword school, his skill with the dual blades drew admiration from his peers. When Yasuo initially denied the personal tutelage of Elder Souma, Yone gifted him a maple seed as a symbol of humility. Later, Yasuo would be taken as Elder Souma's pupil, with Yone's guidance.
One day, when news reached the village that Noxus had invaded, Yone and other members of the village went to help defend the land while Yasuo was held back to defend his master.
When Yone returned, Yasuo had disappeared, and Elder Souma was discovered dead.
Whether Yasuo had shirked his duty or betrayed his master, Yone felt he had failed in his duty to show Yasuo the right path.
Yone and Yasuo clashed in a fated duel and Yasuo's legendary wind technique had the upper hand. Yone died before he was able to learn the truth.
When Yone died, he woke up in the spirit realm, intially being guided by a spirit fox into the afterlife. He eventually went off the path, and ended up being confronted by the azakana that had been hunting him prior to his death. He confronted the azakana, coming out victorious, but not before the azakana would bite his face, hinting to be the cause of his state between life and death. Upon returning to the material realm, he was adorned with a mask reminiscent of the azakana he had faced, unable to remove it, but now able to see azakana in the world around him.
Now, Yone hunts azakana, using the blade he took from his own demon as the tool to kill them and take their masks. He uses their names as words of power, turning the weakened azakana he hunts into masks, later to be added to his belt.
Yone in life was a tall young man with white skin, tied dark brown hair, brown eyes and a beard. He wore an Ionian dress with dark aquamarine blue colors with gold trim with a long red belt, seen in his LoR card artwork .
When he came back to life, his appearance changed, now adorning a scarlet red mask on his face that cannot be removed. His hair now worn loose and long with two strands at the front, and his eyes shine in a ghostly blue.
His attire consists of torn and bloodstained Ionian clothing, wearing no shirt and instead is covered in primarily bandages that extend up to his shoulders and just below his chest. His robes and belt being decorated with the various azakana he has hunted.
When Yone separates his soul from his body, his appearance is the same but semi-transparent and wrapped in a bright scarlet red.
Yone is a stoic, loyal and honourable man who always put his responsibilities before his feelings. He had a complicated relationship with his brother Yasuo , having to take care of him at a very young age. Yone wished for Yasuo to learn responsibility and have a better life, and was elated when Yasuo was chosen by master Souma as his disciple.
When he discovered Yasuo 's "betrayal", Yone was devastated, but continued with his duty which was to, sadly, kill his brother.
When Yone finally found and confronted Yasuo , they ended up dueling to the death, with Yasuo as the victor.
When he returned from the dead, Yone dedicated himself to understanding what he had become through hunting azakana, as he feels that the conflict he now faces with the mask he wears outweighs the unresolved conflict between him and his brother.
According to rumor, Yone and Lillia share a deep friendship, much like the bond between Yasuo and Taliyah .
Yone is the older half-brother to Yasuo , whom he was very close to. Yone taught Yasuo many important lessons when he was young. When Yasuo was running away when accused of killing Elder Souma, Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). was heartbroken and filled with negative thoughts and feelings that fed the azakana he would later confront. When Yone finally caught up, Yasuo was forced to kill his own brother whose death would haunt him for a long time.
Later, when Yasuo went to the Spirit Blossom festival in Weh'le , he was confronted by a resurrected Yone who was trying to kill an azakana that pretended to be a monk from the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). order. [ 1 ] After Yasuo let go of his own past, the brother defeated it and parted way in peace, although Yasuo was expecting Yone wanted vengeance. It isn't clear if Yone has forgiven his brother, or if Yasuo has forgiven himself.
Yone met Lillia at some point (likely when they were both traveling to the Spirit Blossom festival of Weh'le ) and has vowed to protect her from any azakana and Demon of Nightmare during their travels.
Upon Yone's release, it was heavily hinted that the relationship dynamic between Yone and Lillia is meant to mirror the master / student dynamic of Yasuo and Taliyah . The former is mentioned in the story 'The Unforgiven' - "In her, Yasuo saw an unlikely student, and in himself, an even more unlikely teacher," [ 2 ] and the latter is further supported by Michael Yichao, Yone's writer. [ 3 ] "Fun fact: Yone knows and has met Lillia! He is rather protective of the innocent dream fawn." [ 4 ]
The Unforgotten
By Michael Yichao
Starring: Yone
Mentioned: Yasuo
Short Story • 1 Minute Read
A Sword without a Sheath
By Robert Lo , Joe Lansford
What is a sword without the man behind it? Teaching a swordsman to kill is simple. The true challenge lies in teaching him not to kill.
Kin of the Stained Blade
Not forgiven. Not forgotten.
Starring: Ahri , Yasuo , Yone
Legends of Two Realms
Explore the pawnshop, Twist of Fortune, and collect mystic artifacts left behind by Fiend Queller Yone.
Starring: Camille , Pyke , Swain , Varus , Yone
Short Story
The boy ran at a dead sprint, driven by terror.
Brotherhood
By Ariel Lawrence
The source of the crying is a boy. Six, maybe seven summers.
Starring: Yasuo
Mentioned: Yone
Short Story • 11 Minute Read
Confessions of a Broken Blade: Part 1
In the wake of war between Noxus and Ionia, Riven is accused of a heinous crime.
Starring: Riven
Mentioned: Yasuo , Yone
Orchid's Bloom
Jing breathed deep.
Mentioned: Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Road to Ruin
When I was a child, my brother asked me: "Does the wind flee, or does it follow?"
The Unforgiven
Mentioned: Azir , Riven , Taliyah , Yone
Dawn by Raid
Starring: Caitlyn , Garen , Leona , Wukong , Yone
Music Video
By Heartsteel
breakout stars HEARTSTEEL is a band. kayn, ezreal, sett, yone, k’sante, and aphelios are in it. “PARANOIA” features BAEKHYUN, tobi lou, ØZI, and Cal Scruby
Starring: Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Rhaast , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Amumu
Riot's virtual artist HEARTSTEEL will surpass K/DA
By Park Ji-yoon , Ha Ye-jin
Witness the debut of 'HEARTSTEEL', which will capture your heart once you see it.
Starring: Alune , Aphelios , Ezreal , K'Sante , Kayn , Sett , Yone
Mentioned: Akali , Yasuo
Spirit Bonds
By Jared Rosen , Michael Yichao , Rayla Heide , Elan Stimmel , Cat Manning , David Slagle , John O'Bryan , Michael Luo , Phillip Vargas
They say the Spirit Blossom Festival represents a thinning of the veil between our world and the Spirit Realm.
Starring: Ahri , Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo , Yone
The Path, An Ionian Myth
Every myth carries a seed of truth. A slain swordsman must decide if he will make peace with his past—or be consumed by it.
Starring: Ahri , Yone
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Kindred , Lillia , Teemo , Thresh , Yasuo
Tournament of Souls: Wild Rift Edition
By Kristina Atanasoski
Be careful what you wish for—and what you fight for. Draven entered the Tournament of Souls to make a name for himself, but when the results don't live up to expectations, it's time for some quiet introspection. ...Aww, who are we kidding?! It's time to double down and carve through the competition! Join Draven on his winding path to glory in the League of Legends: Wild Rift's Soul Fighter Event!
Starring: Draven , Irelia , Nilah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo
Mentioned: Darius , Swain , Yone
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
The last survivor of a long-forgotten religious order, Yorick is both blessed and cursed with power over the dead. Trapped on the Shadow Isles , his only companions are the rotting corpses and shrieking spirits that he gathers to him. Yorick's monstrous actions belie his noble purpose: to free his home from the curse of the Ruination of Helia .
Yorick grew up in a small fishing village on the edge of the Blessed Isles. He could never find acceptance among his peers, and he eventually learned that he could see the spirits of the dead. While at first he was scared of these spirits, he eventually realized that they were just lost and did not want to hurt him. They wanted to find their way to what lay beyond death, and Yorick helped guide them there. While Yorick was happy to guide them, it was a bittersweet task, as he liked talking to these spirits and helping one reach the beyond meant losing a friend.
Tales of Yorick's visions spread and caught the attention of a small religious order of monks called the Brethren of the Dusk. They inducted Yorick into their ranks and gave him a vial of the Waters of Life to wear around his neck, which was common for members of the order. These Waters of Life were magical in nature and could heal someone of almost any injury or ailment. Despite being part of the order, Yorick found himself alone again, shunned by the other monks because he could easily see what they had spent their entire lives trying to understand.
One day, as he was tending to his daily duties in the cemetery, Yorick saw a dark cloud moving across the surface of the Isles and devouring everything in its path. This was the Black Mist, created when a young king tried to revive his dead wife in the Waters of Life. As the Mist spread, it caused the monks to pull the vials from their necks before consuming their souls and turning their bodies into corpses. Yorick used all of his willpower to not pull the vial from his neck before being consumed by the Mist.
When he awoke, Yorick had been physically changed, and the Isles had been cleansed of all life. The Black Mist reached for him, but recoiled when it tried to reach for the vial around his neck. He realized that the only thing keeping him alive was the last of the Waters of Life around his neck. Despite searching for days, Yorick found no survivors. In his grief, he talked to the spirits surrounding him. They gravitated to his word, and Yorick realized that he could control them. Determined to free the dead spirits on the Isles, Yorick decided to use these powers to end the curse upon the Isles.
While on their quest to defeat Viego , the Sentinels of Light visited Yorick to ask for help. Seeing that their goals aligned with his, Yorick gave them some of the drops from his vial along with the Maiden of the Mist , which was revealed to be a fetter, containing a piece of Isolde's 's soul.
Yorick is a muscular man with light blue skin and glowing eyes because of his time spent in the Shadow Isles. He wears a dark blue outfit common for those in his position in the Brethren of the Dusk, with no sleeves, fingerless gloves, black shoes, and elongated shoulder pads. Yorick carries with him a large shovel used for digging graves and as a weapon if need be. Around his neck is a glowing light blue vial, containing some of the last drops of the Waters of Life.
Yorick is a quiet and solemn individual. Resigned to his fate long ago, Yorick dutifully digs graves for those who die and have died on the Shadow Isles. While he often talks to the tormented souls around him because of his loneliness and grief and despite caring for the souls, he is aware that they are being controlled by the Mist. His ultimate goal is to find the Ruined King and find a way to let everything in the Shadow Isles die, and in his mind, finally be at peace, including himself.
Illaoi's faith would compel her to kill a man like Yorick, but her recent experiences had given her enough of an open mind to cooperate with the monk. In their philisophical debate, Yorick argues that helping the dead find peace is more important than banishing them back into the cycle of life. Furthermore, his power to compel the dead would align with the Buhru law of motion, either by commanding the Black Mist or rescuing tormented spirits.
Yorick dreamt of destroying the Ruined King that decimated Helia. This pursuit would drive him to sacrifice his lifelines, such as leaving his seat of power with Illaoi in the first attempt, or giving away the Maiden and his Water of Life to the Sentinels that would succeed in the second attempt. Although, he was disappointed to learn that Viego's banishment has no effect on the Black Mist, and therefore his own predicament.
When the Sentinels met Yorick, he became confident that their strength could stop Viego once and for all. He sacrificed his powers—the Maiden and the Water of Life—knowing that they will be critical for victory.
Shepherd of Souls
By John O'Bryan
Starring: Yorick
Mentioned: Isolde , Viego
Short Story • 4 Minute Read
"Help… me," begged the shipwrecked man.
Rise of the Sentinels
Black Mist pours across Runeterra, enthralling its champions and shrouding the continent in darkness. If the last Sentinels are going to save Runeterra, they're going to need all the help they can get. And that means you Rookie!
Starring: Akshan , Diana , Draven , Graves , Gwen , Irelia , Isolde , Karma , Lucian , Miss Fortune , Olaf , Pantheon , Pyke , Rengar , Riven , Senna , Shyvana , Thresh , Vayne , Vex , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Rafen
Short Story
Roots of Ruin
By Numerous creators
The end began with one man.
Starring: Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Thresh , Viego , Vladimir , Yorick
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
The Will of the Dead
By Laura Michet
Long before she became a Truth Bearer of her people, Illaoi had been an acolyte priestess at a Buhru temple on the coast.
Starring: Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Yorick
Mentioned: Gangplank , Maiden of the Mist , Nagakabouros , Pyke , Tahm Kench , Thresh , Viego
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
The Meaning in Misery
It was midday on the island, and Vex was just emerging from her previous night’s sleep.
Starring: Milty , Vex
Mentioned: Yorick
The Princeling's Lament
By Graham McNeill
Scrape the bench of sunless moss.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Karthus , Kindred , Maokai , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Cats Versus Dogs (Video)
This April Fools’, leave it all on the show floor.
Starring: Corki , Fizz , Rengar , Yorick
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
The truest opponent lies within.
Starring: Boram Darkwill , Brand , Caitlyn , Cassiopeia , Galio , Graves , Irelia , Jarvan IV , Karma , LeBlanc , Lee Sin , Leona , Lux , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nocturne , Orianna , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Skarner , Sona , Swain , Talon , Trundle , Urgot , Varus , Vayne , Vladimir , Wukong , Xerath , Xin Zhao , Yorick
Music Video
Pentakill II: Grasp of the Undying
By Pentakill
No one shreds like the undead.
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Mentioned: Poppy , Rumble , Teemo , Tristana
Pentakill III: Lost Chapter
Join Karthus, Mordekaiser, Sona, Yorick, Olaf, and Kayle to do battle with Viego and the Dissonant One, as the future of all Metal hangs in the balance...
Starring: Karthus , Kayle , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Viego , Yorick
Pentakill: Smite and Ignite
The era of metal has begun.
Starring: Karthus , Mordekaiser , Olaf , Sona , Yorick
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A magical cat from Bandle City , Yuumi was once the familiar of a yordle enchantress, Norra . When her master mysteriously disappeared, Yuumi became the Keeper of Norra's sentient Book of Thresholds , traveling through portals in its pages to search for her. Yearning for affection, Yuumi seeks friendly companions to partner with on her journey, protecting them with luminous shields and fierce resolve. While Book strives to keep her on task, Yuumi is often drawn to worldly comforts, such as naps and fish. In the end, however, she always returns to her quest to find her friend.
She was born in the realm of the Yordles , and blessed with magical powers of protection but she spent most of her days pouncing at sunbeams, and napping near mouse trees, but she joined Nora on her adventures in material and spirit realms should it spark her interest.
Norra spent her time collecting strange objects like broken cups, shards of colored glass, and fabric with funny stitching. She examined each artifact with deep reverence, though Yuumi never understood their purpose. Nevertheless, Yuumi would use her magic to protect Norra from harm, and would warm her feet when they returned home.
The doorways between realms are finicky and seldom open, even to creatures as dexterous as cats. Yuumi watched as other yordles waited for days for the eastern star to align with a particular stone archway, or waded impatiently between marsh-lilies, seeking a silver blossom blooming from the mud—only then would a pathway appear. But Yuumi’s yordle, Norra, possessed the powerful Book of Thresholds, which allowed her to instantly travel anywhere depicted in its pages. When Norra opened a portal, she and Yuumi would gleefully dive into its glowing paper and arrive at their destination, joined a moment later by the book.
Yuumi never paid the book much attention until one starless night, when she returned home from luring moon-moths with her shinylight to find Norra missing. She saw the book on her master’s desk and flipped through its pages in a panic, noticing that some were torn out entirely. Unable to read its title, Yuumi cried out to it in distress, calling it, simply, “Book”. In response, the book wiggled, and Yuumi was surprised to learn she could understand thoughts amidst the rustling paper. Despite not having a voice, Book made itself loud and clear. Yuumi learned that Norra had gone somewhere so perilous, she had destroyed the portal as she traveled.
Yuumi knew she had to rescue Norra, and turned to Book for help. Each of its thousand pages led to a different location along the lines of magic that crossed the material and spirit realms. The page Norra had used to travel was lost, but Book might be able to get them close. Yuumi and Book would have to explore every possible threshold. She became Book’s unlikely Keeper, vowing to protect it with the courage of a lion—if it fell into the wrong hands, the doorways to Bandle City could open to all kinds of unsavory and ravenous intruders.
Yuumi and Book began their arduous journey, visiting dangerous and unfamiliar lands.
Yuumi sought Norra’s scent on the wind, to little avail. While Yuumi would sometimes break from their search to follow the scent of a mouse or restore her strength with a quick catnap, Book was frustratingly cautious, grumpy over lost time and nervous about threats they might encounter. Nevertheless, Yuumi and Book were both determined to find their master and bring her home.
When Yuumi especially missed Norra, she often sought out other companions. One of her favorites was a door-carrying shepherd with thick whiskers and a deep laugh like a babbling brook. Yuumi rested on his shoulders for a time, protecting him from angry snow-spirits stirring up flurries in a hailstorm, while he brought her wriggling fish.
Eventually, Yuumi uncovered the scent of her master lingering in a vast Shuriman ruin. Digging deep into the sand, she unearthed a broken shard of blue pottery that looked like a piece from one of Norra’s teapots. Before she could burrow further, a ferocious beast surfaced from the sand, and Yuumi and Book barely escaped. She could only imagine the chaos if a creature like that ripped its claws into Book’s pages.
Yummi is a cat with blue fur, a gold pattern on her tail and golden eyebrows and whiskers.
Yummi is a playful, and curious feline with catlike instincts like chasing mice or red dots, and taking cat naps, plus she dislikes dogs like Warwick or Nasus . While she can be easily distracted, she can be focused on finding her master Norra along with Book. She does miss Norra, but that doesn't mean she can't find new companions like Braum for example.
Yuumi and Book of Thresholds have become fast friends, united by their love for Norra .
During their travels, Yuumi and Book have encountered Braum . Yuumi rested on his shoulders for a time, protecting him from angry snow-spirits stirring up flurries in a hailstorm, while he brought her wriggling fish.
Yuumi and Book are friends with Aphelios' sister, Alune , periodically visiting her in the Spirit Realm .
Yuumi and Book were attacked by Rek'Sai while they were investigating ruins in Shurima .
The Magical Cat
By Rayla Heide
Starring: Yuumi
Mentioned: Book of Thresholds , Braum , Norra , Rek'Sai
A Curious Journey (Video)
As our journey comes to an end, Ava races home to save the Bandlewood Festival—but will she make it in time?
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Gnar , Teemo , Yuumi
Book of Thresholds (Video)
Where to next, Book?
Starring: Book of Thresholds , Yuumi
Mentioned: Norra
Short Story
The Biggest Catch
I'm about to jump into Book's portal when I hear a scream that sounds like tinkling bells and the brightest rainbows. A scream that makes my fur stand on end. A yordle scream.
The Magical Cat (Video)
When her Master goes missing, the Magical Cat hops on the case, making new friends and bopping enemies along the way.
Ao Shin's Adventure
Every little dragon has a destiny.
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Azir , Jinx , Sett , Teemo , Veigar , Yuumi
Fight for Yours
Starring: Ezreal , Graves , Jayce , Katarina , Lux , Yuumi
Swarm (Story)
By Ty Sheedlo , River Jaffe , Elyse Lemoine
Blast-and-juke your way through countless enemies, hopefully gaining enough power along the way to slay the big baddie who awaits you at the end of each map. And if you don't succeed, just dust yourself off, rethink your strategy, power up, and try again.
Starring: Aatrox , Aurora , Bel'Veth , Briar , Illaoi , Jinx , Leona , Miss Fortune , Rek'Sai , Riven , Seraphine , Xayah , Yasuo , Yuumi
Mentioned: Sylas , Vayne
Music Video
By True Damage
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Qiyana , Senna , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ahri , Azir , Book of Thresholds , Camille , Corki , Jinx , Kayn , Kindred , LeBlanc , Lucian , Pyke , Rhaast , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Thresh , Twitch , Yuumi
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Zac is the product of a toxic spill that ran through a chemtech seam and pooled in an isolated cavern deep in Zaun's Sump. Despite such humble origins, Zac has grown from primordial ooze into a thinking being who dwells in the city's pipes, occasionally emerging to help those who cannot help themselves or to rebuild the broken infrastructure of Zaun.
Zac was created in Zaun as the Zaun Amorphous Combatant , a synthetic construct of ooze with the ability to react to nearby stimuli and emotions, as a project by Chem-Baron Saito Takeda to create an obedient super soldier who could resist injury and access spaces normal humans couldn't. The blob eventually escaped and stayed in a sump pool, where it reacted to Zaunite children throwing stones at it by throwing them back, causing rumors of a "Returning Pool" known among the dwellers of the sump. Several alchymists travelled to the pool to test its psychotropic properties, finding that treating it well made it respond with childlike joy, but causing it pain resulted in it retaliating and killing several personnel.
One married couple of alchymists dissented against Takeda's project and saw the blob as a sentient being and gave it the name Zac. The couple tried to vouch for Zac's rights to the organization, but were ignored. They taught Zac about morality and how to be good, but the other alchymists experimented with his empathic senses by performing cruel experiments around him which made Zac feel negative emotions. Refusing to tolerate any more unethical treatment towards Zac, the couple helped him escape during Zaun's Progress Day memorials by storing him in a septic tank and moving him to a faraway part of Zaun. When Takeda found out, he sent his soldiers to search for them. The couple initially wanted to set Zac free, but he wanted to stay with them due to the kindness they showed him, so they happily accepted him and adopted him as their son.
Zac and his alchymist parents went into hiding in a remote part of the sump. As they changed their appearances to avoid recognition, Zac learned how to talk by mimicking their voices. Living with them for many years, they taught Zac about the beauty of the world of Runeterra , but also how it could be cruel sometimes with some people having malice in their hearts, but he remained optimistic and continued to do good deeds. He leisurely roamed Zaun through the small spaces he could travel through, but tended to get overwhelmed by the nearby Zaunites' emotions. He often acted upon his emotions, helping fight against bullies and doing good deeds for Zaunite citizens, but his negative emotions would cause him to destroy entire buildings. The rumors of Zac's sightings were picked up by Takeda, whose alchymists were unable to recreate Zac's sentience, so he sent his henchmen to find his creation and the couple of alchymists whom fled from him.
Takeda's henchmen eventually found the couple's home and attacked them, ending up killing them despite Takeda ordering them to be taken alive. At the time Zac was casually exploring until he sensed his parents' distress, so he travelled through the pipes of the city as fast as he could, but he found that his parents had already been killed. In a fit of rage and grief, Zac unleashed the true destructive potential of his gelatinous body, killing many of the henchmen but also causing collateral damage to nearby buildings in the process. When he had calmed down, he was overcome with remorse so he rebuilt the damages he caused before moving to live in Zaun's pipe network from then on. Taking in both the positive and negative emotions of the people and occasionally acting upon his urges, Zac became an urban legend in Zaun.
Zac is an amorphous green blob of Zaunite ooze which congeals largely in his hands, forearms, feet, torso, and head. He has a large underbite with his green jaw, yellow eyes, and tail of slime that extends from his head. He can inflate himself into a ball shape.
Zac has an innate ability to feel the emotions of others due to his properties, often feeling overwhelmed by too much positive or negative emotions. Due to his upbringing from his adoptive parents, Zac has a kind, optimistic outlook of life and enjoys helping others, though when there are negative emotions around him he stops to intervene at best and lashes out in destructive tantrums at worst. He was overcome by rage towards his parents' deaths in the hands of Saito Takeda's men, yet felt remorse for the destruction he caused during his outburst, rebuilding everything he's damaged before choosing to live in the sewers alone. He feels a strong aversion to violence around him, yet usually remains in a calm demeanor when he fights.
Zac was born from a chem spill in Zaun's Sump level, gaining basic sentience to respond to outside stimuli. He was sequestered in a laboratory by a group of alchymists funded by Chem-Baron Saito Takeda, to be molded into a super soldier under his command. Two of the alchymists grew emotionally attached to Zac and, when they discovered who their benefactor was, spirited away with him deep within Zaun, lovingly raising him as their own son while being on the run from baron Takeda's thugs.
Zac responds to people's emotions and acts accordingly, his mood changing with the reigning sentiment at any given time, best exemplified when he went berserk after his parents were killed by Takeda's men. After burying them, he decided to set off and help the people of Zaun, fighting chem-thugs and fixing the city's infrastructure when the opportunity presents itself.
The Secret Weapon
By Graham McNeill
Starring: Zac
Short Story • 6 Minute Read
The golden hour between fifth and sixth bell. That's my favorite time of day. It's when most people in the Factorywood finish their work shifts. They're bone tired, but they're done for the day. Work is behind them. A hot meal and home are ahead. The people here are nice, and I always feel good squeezing my gelatinous body through the cliff-cracks seaming the rocks around the Factorywood. I feel love emanating from a man going home to his newborn son. I relish the anticipation of a married couple looking forward to a romantic dinner in the Boundary Markets.
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
Zaun Amorphous Combatant
By Unknown Author
Academy Adventures: Series 2
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Crystal Quest: Series 1
By ARTeapot
Starring: Bard , Jayce , Karthus , Sejuani
Mentioned: Anivia , Ashe , Braum , Bristle , Caitlyn , Camille , Elise , Ezreal , Garen , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Illaoi , Ivern , Katarina , Kled , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lucian , Nami , Olaf , Poppy , Ryze , Senna , Singed , Skaarl , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Veigar , Vi , Zac
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
Although what height Zac truly stands at is very difficult to know since his height is variable, based on his minimum and maximum heights he is appropriately 6'5ft tall. This height is perfect for him to be at specifically since he looms over most characters.
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Utterly ruthless and without mercy, Zed is the leader of the Order of Shadow , an organization he created with the intent of militarizing Ionia’s magical and martial traditions to drive out Noxian invaders. During the war, desperation led him to unlock the secret shadow form—a malevolent spirit magic as dangerous and corrupting as it is powerful. Zed has mastered all of these forbidden techniques to destroy anything he sees as a threat to his nation, or his new order.
A low class mother gave birth to Govos. When he was young, Govos saw his father walk out on their family. Born as a Northern peasant child, Govos was a servant at the Thaanjul monastery at around age 10. For two years, nobody from the Kinkou would claim him as their neophyte and apprentice. A servant boy whose duties included washing floors and cleaning dishes, he only had spare time to train in the evenings after all his work was done. As a child, it was his dream to become a Kinkou warrior. It was his hope that if he showed his determination, that Kusho wouldn't walk out on Govos the way his father had. The opportunity finally came to him when Master Kusho and his son Shen walked up to Govos. Kusho ordered his son to spar with the servant child. Govos did not do well at first, but he continued to spar over and over again. On the last chance he had, Shen purposefully let Govos hit him. Govos' new family would nurse him back to health from the hours of sparring that occurred that day and Master Kusho would take Zed on as his student.
At the age of around 15, Govos, Shen, and Master Kusho disguised themselves as merchants and journeyed to track down the Golden Demon. Pulling their supply cart, Govos and Shen discussed their childhood friend and Shen's now-future-fiancée, Yevnai. At the end of the cliffside, they see smoke and mutilated bodies for the first time. Kusho calls for them to aid Kotha Village's survivors. Govos is left to aid with healing and surgery, as he is less hesitant to make judgement calls. Govos heals and aids the wounded and through the traumatizing experience of letting some die, to save others, he learns a Kinkou lesson known as "The Lesson of the Scales". After the ordeal, Kusho sits beside his apprentice to give him the Amulet of the Eye of Twilight, as well as the name Usan. His new name is one of status and means "the strength of compassion" and is explained to him through tears that "it is the word for the pillar that bears the heaviest load".
As Usan and Shen investigated the Golden Demon's killings, the trauma of seeing the gruesome crime scenes shook the two to their core. Eventually, they managed to catch the Golden Demon, revealed to be a stagehand named Khada Jhin . Usan prepared to kill the criminal, but Kusho intervened, ordering Jhin to be imprisoned instead. Usan struggled in his studies as he was shaken by Jhin's crimes and the tensions between Noxus ' ongoing encroachment on Ionia , disillusioning his perspective of balance and filling him with a vengeful desire to punish evil.
Later, Usan found a box within the temple's hidden catacombs which contained the Tears of Shadow, a magical ichor gave him the ability to control shadow magic, at the expense of tainting his mind with darkness. He proposed for the Kinkou to strike the Noxians down with everything they had, but Kusho refused. Usan left the Kinkou and decided to take justice into his own hands. Taking on the name Zed, he formed the Shadow Order , a group of former Kinkou disciples with a goal to defend Ionia by any extreme means necessary. Realizing that the magic within the black box was a requirement for his goal, Zed and his acolytes raided the temple. When confronted by Kusho, Zed made a deal with him to fake the latter's death in exchange for uniting Ionia to fight in the war. After slaying the remaining Kinkou, the Shadow Order claimed the temple as their own and they imbued themselves with the Tears of Shadow, learning how to fight alongside their shadows.
Zed later witnessed a massacre in Bahrl , as a warning by Noxus that they would show no mercy. One of the child soldiers that Noxus sent, named Shieda Kayn , harbored tenacity and perseverance that Zed saw potential in, so he recruited him into the Shadow Order. Kayn quickly grew to master every weapon in the Order's possession, with great proficiency in stealth and assassination.
With the Order of Shadow's future ahead, Zed knew that his actions could not be undone, but he must do whatever it takes to secure Ionia's triumph.
Zed is a muscular but slimly built man with brown eyes, fair skin, and shaggy white hair. His signature armor is a menacing ninja regalia, draped with dark red and blue fabrics tucked into dark gray metal with golden accents. The most notable feature is a sinister metal mask with vertical slats over the mouth. Zed's eyes seem to glow red from within. His weapons of choice are a pair of retractable, dual-tipped blades that extend from his forearms. He also carries 2 large shuriken on his back,
Like many Ionians, Zed is deeply dedicated to his homeland. Where he differs, however, is how far he is willing to go in order to protect it. Ruthless and decisive, Zed is willing to master forbidden arts, utilize deception and secrecy, and even betray his allies in his efforts to keep Ionia safe.
Zed found Kayn when he was 10 year old, and has taken him as a apprentice.
The Master of Shadows
By Michael Luo , Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Zed
Mentioned: Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen
Short Story
A Piece of Shadow Cake
By Odin Austin Shafer
Xayah jumped upward into the trees' foliage, dodging the gunfire that exploded from the temple's walls.
Starring: Rakan , Xayah , Zed
Death Mark (Video)
This assassin doesn't just strike from the shadows - he is the shadow. And they don't stand a chance.
The Man with the Steel Cane
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Shen , Zed
Restoring the wild magic of Ionia won't be easy when a deadly enemy lurks in the shadows.
Zed: Issue 1
By Odin Austin Shafer , Edgar Salazar , Lorenzo Ruggiero , Chris O'Halloran
Zed is lured back to a village where he and Shen once encountered a great evil, a brutal killer from their past resurfaces: the magically gifted psychopath Khada Jhin!
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Kusho , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Rhaast
Zed: Issue 2
Zed is under attack from all sides! He and his band of assassins are ambushed by the twisted Khada Jhin! In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 3
In order to survive, Zed will be forced to confront his past sins and seek the aid of his most bitter enemy--the Eye of Twilight, Shen!
Zed: Issue 4
Khada Jhin's master plan comes together in a most explosive and deadly manner! But even if Zed and Shen survive, they might just kill one another! Only one will be left standing by the end of this issue!
Zed: Issue 5
Zed has been captured and is at the mercy of his most bitter enemy--and once most trusted friend--Shen! Meanwhile Akali sets out on her own in search of the deadly Jhin--a journey that may lead her to her own doom! But what is Jhin's endgame?
Starring: Akali , Jhin , Kayn , Shen , Zed
Mentioned: Camille , Kusho
Zed: Issue 6
It's all led to this: Zed and Shen, united in a final battle with the psychopathic murderer Khada Jhin! And the life of the captive Akali hangs in the balance! Then--Shen and Zed's greatest enemy will stand revealed…and you'll never guess who it is! Shocking secrets about the past AND the present will be unveiled…and whoever survives will be left to pick up the pieces!
Katarina: Issue 4
By Alison Hawkes
The kingdom of Demacia is in chaos! While the Great City has its focus on Sylas and his mage rebellion, a cunning, redheaded assassin, Katarina, lurks in the shadows. Focused on executing the most dangerous mission of her life, she hopes to finally live up to her father’s impossible expectations. However, when she is forced to choose between the mission and her own instincts, will she have to betray Noxus’ Master of Assassins?
Starring: Drann , Jaredan , Katarina , Talon
Mentioned: Cassiopeia , Jarvan III , Marcus Du Couteau , Rache , Soreana Du Couteau , Swain , Zed
League Animation Workshop
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Darius , Lux , Miss Fortune , Zed
Ruined King
By Airship Syndicate
Rise Against Ruin - Unite a party of League of Legends Champions, explore Bilgewater and set sail for the Shadow Isles to uncover the secrets of the deadly Black Mist in this immersive turn-based RPG.
Starring: Ahri , Braum , Gangplank , Illaoi , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Necrit , Pyke , Rafen , Thresh , Viego , Yasuo
Mentioned: Ashe , Elise , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Gwen , Hecarim , Isolde , Ivern , Janna , Jarvan IV , Kalista , Ledros , Lucian , Nagakabouros , Nautilus , Olaf , Ornn , Rhasa , Riven , Senna , Swain , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Twisted Fate , Udyr , Volibear , Yone , Yorick , Zed
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The Blade of Millenia
By Michael McCarthy
Kayn stood confidently in the shadow of the noxtoraa, surrounded by dead soldiers, and smiled at the irony. These triumphal arches of dark stone were raised to honor the strength of Noxus—to instill fear and to demand fealty from all who passed beneath them. Now this one was a tombstone, a monument to false strength and arrogance, and a symbol of the fallen warriors' own fear turned against them.
Starring: Kayn
Mentioned: Rhaast , Zed
The Bow, and the Kunai
The air of southern Shon-Xan was rife with raw magic.
Starring: Akali , Kennen , Shen
Mentioned: Kusho , Zed
The Eye of Twilight
By Michael Luo
Starring: Shen
Mentioned: Akali , Jhin , Kusho , Zed
The Heart of the Tempest
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Kennen
Mentioned: Akali , Kusho , Shen , Zed
The Rogue Assassin
Starring: Akali
Mentioned: Kennen , Kusho , Shen , Zed
The Shadow Reaper
Mentioned: Boram Darkwill , Rhaast , Zed
The Virtuoso
By Odin Austin Shafer , Ian St. Martin
Starring: Jhin
Mentioned: Kusho , Shen , Zed
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Music Video
By Numerous creators
It’s your time to be legendary.
Starring: Cithria , Darius , Zed
Immortal Journey Cinematic
Starring: Kayle , Soraka , Zed
Mentioned: Irelia , Jax , Master Yi , Nami , Riven
...SEARCHING MEMORY… ANALYZE: NEW PROJECT SKINS.PROJECT: YI // HOST PROJECT: FIORA // ASSIST PROJECT: LEONA // UNKNOWN PROJECT: LUCIAN // ASSIST PROJECT: YASUO // UNKNOWN PROJECT: ZED // HOSTILE
Starring: Fiora , Lucian , Master Yi , Zed
Mentioned: Leona , Yasuo
You Really Got Me
Ready for the Rift?
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Camille , Jinx , Lux , Malphite , Teemo , Yasuo , Zed
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
OPERATION: SONGBIRD
No war stays hidden for long.
Starring: Ezreal , Master Yi , Shen , Sona , Vi
Mentioned: Kayle , Pyke , Samira , Viktor , Zed
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
Road to the Cup
As the 2013 League of Legends World Championship final draws near, we showcase the biggest heroes in esports from around the world. Many teams fell by the wayside in epic battles, and now only two remain: Korea's SK Telecom T1 and China's Royal Club. Who will rise?
Mentioned: Blitzcrank , Brand , Caitlyn , Corki , Elise , Ezreal , Gragas , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Lux , Malphite , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Renekton , Ryze , Shen , Thresh , Twisted Fate , Vayne , Zac , Zed
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
A headstrong, spirited young woman from Zaun’s working-class, Zeri channels her electric magic to charge herself and her custom-crafted gun. Her volatile power mirrors her emotions, its sparks reflecting her lightning-fast approach to life. Deeply compassionate toward others, Zeri carries the love of her family and her home into every fight. Though her eagerness to help can sometimes backfire, Zeri believes one truth to be certain: stand up for your community, and it will stand up with you. She acts as a vigilante of sorts, standing up for the people of Zaun with energy in each step.
Zeri is a girl standing at an average height with light, tanned skin, olive green eyes and lime green hair tied with two large pigtails.
She wears the typical Zaunite punk-style clothing, which includes a large dark blue jacket, a bright orange shirt with a green lightning bolt in the center revealing her navel, metallic brown pants and gloves, and light brown boots.
She is a headstrong but friendly person to those she meets. She is an energetic spirit, with a rebellious attitude who finds it difficult to sit still in one place. She is friendly, hopeful, resourceful, and optimistic.
In any case, she is strong-willed, impulsive at times, and compassionate to others above all. Zeri wishes for Zaun to be as beautiful as its rival, and equally as rich, as is at some points competitive.
Both Zeri and Ekko are teenage residents of Zaun, and became friends after Zeri freed a group of hostages, including Ekko's parents, from a warehouse. In a note implied to be from Zeri, codenamed Z, she talks about saving Blitzcrank again and their mothers talking about a potluck, saying she'll bring the ube ice cream he enjoys.
Both Ekko and Zeri share a dislike for Piltovans . The only difference is while Ekko is implied to be a fan of Seraphine , Zeri doesn't really like her as much, saying that her songs aren't enough to inspire change.
Zeri and Blitzcrank have had several run-ins before, with Blitz helping her climb a clocktower and Zeri having to save him from Chem-Punks on several occasions.
It's implied Zeri has had encounters with Jinx before, mostly involving Zeri dodging Jinx's rockets.
The Spark of Zaun
By Michael Luo
Starring: Zeri
Short Story
The Unexpected Spark
"I can’t accept this,"
Starring: Ekko , Zeri
Mentioned: Inna , Renata Glasc , Wyeth
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
A Spark in the Dark
When all hope seems lost, sometimes all you need is a little spark to ignite that Dragonfire…
Starring: Aatrox , Zeri
Lunar Extravaganza (Wild Rift)
The Lunar New Year is here, and it's time to celebrate! Help prepare for the festivities and join in by lighting lanterns and sending (and receiving!) red envelopes in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Extravaganza!
Starring: Aatrox , Graves , Thresh , Zeri , Zyra
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
With a love of big bombs and short fuses, the yordle Ziggs is an explosive force of nature. As an inventor's assistant in Piltover , he was bored by his predictable life and befriended a mad, blue-haired bomber named Jinx . After a wild night on the town, Ziggs took her advice and moved to Zaun , where he now explores his fascinations more freely, terrorizing the chem-barons and regular citizens alike in his never ending quest to blow stuff up.
Ziggs was born with a talent for tinkering, but his chaotic, hyperactive nature was unusual among yordle scientists. Aspiring to be a revered inventor like Heimerdinger, he rattled through ambitious projects with manic zeal, emboldened by both his explosive failures and his unprecedented discoveries. Word of Ziggs' volatile experimentation reached the famed Yordle Academy in Piltover and its esteemed professors invited him to demonstrate his craft. His characteristic disregard for safety brought the presentation to an early conclusion, however, when the hextech engine Ziggs was demonstrating overheated and exploded, blowing a huge hole in the wall of the Academy. The professors dusted themselves off and sternly motioned for him to leave. Devastated, Ziggs prepared to return to Bandle City in shame. However, before he could leave, a group of Zaunite agents infiltrated the Academy and kidnapped the professors. The Piltover military tracked the captives to a Zaunite prison, but their weapons were incapable of destroying the fortified walls. Determined to outdo them, Ziggs began experimenting on a new kind of armament, and quickly realized that he could harness his accidental gift for demolition to save the captured yordles.
Before long, Ziggs had created a line of powerful bombs he lovingly dubbed ''hexplosives.'' With his new creations ready for their first trial, Ziggs traveled to Zaun and sneaked into the prison compound. He launched a gigantic bomb at the prison and watched with glee as the explosion tore through the reinforced wall. Once the smoke had cleared, Ziggs scuttled into the facility, sending guards running with a hail of bombs. He rushed to the cell, blew the door off its hinges, and led the captive yordles to freedom. Upon returning to the Academy, the humbled professors recognized Ziggs with an honorary title - Dean of Demolitions. Vindicated at last, Ziggs accepted the proposal, eager to bring his ever-expanding range of hexplosives to greater Valoran.
Like all yordles he is the size of a dwarf has cat like ears, and a beige like colored fur. He wears armor with goggles with green lenses, and has a giant bomb on his back.
If the grin didn't get through to anyone he is a wild, and chaotic force of nature who has a passion for 2 things, bombs and explosions and refers to it as art than science. Despite his chaotic nature, he won't let children get hurt, and will do so by putting himself in harms way, and he doesn't kill anyone on purpose.
Ziggs is quite terrified of Jinx (she constantly wants to hug him). Jinx believes he is a product of her imagination, more specifically her conscience. After a night of mischiefs with her all around Piltover , Ziggs now lives with her in Zaun .
Ziggs sees Heimerdinger as his idol and used to work for him before going to Zaun with Jinx.
The Hexplosives Expert
Starring: Ziggs
Beyond the Bandlewood (Video)
In this episode, Ava’s on a mission to prove herself… but she’ll need a little help.
Starring: Ava , Book of Thresholds , Caitlyn , Teemo , Veigar , Ziggs
Mentioned: Senna , Sion , Xerath
Short Story
Bombs: A Tribute
By Abigail Harvey
Okay, Zaun. I’m here, I’m fuzzy, and I’m ready to explode stuff.
Mentioned: Heimerdinger , Jinx
Paint the Town
By Anthony Burch , Fabio Moon , Dave Stewart
Oh, they say I'm crazy -- they say that Yordles would be easy to spot in a city such as ours, what with their fuzzy countenances and diminutive stature. But I've heard rumors that they have invented some sort of magical charms that make these abominations appear no different from you or I. But don't be fooled! No matter how adorable they may seem, these mischievous creatures will bring our city of Piltover to ruin! If I were so moved, I'd say they're an even bigger threat than those lunatic terrorists from Zaun! But I'm getting ahead of myself. Our story starts in a small pyrotechnics shop in Piltover, run by two unnervingly fuzzy gentlemen...
Starring: Heimerdinger , Jinx , Ziggs
CONV/RGENCE
By Double Stallion Games
Rewind the Past, Control the Future - Explore and traverse through the spectacular city of Zaun as Ekko, a young inventor with an ingenious device to manipulate time, in this story-driven action platformer. Play as a young Ekko and realize the full potential of one of League’s fan-favorite Champions.
Starring: Aximander , Camille , Chadd , Corin Reveck , Corina Veraza , Drake Poingdestre , Ekko , Elie , Inna , Jinx , Lem , Red , Rungs , Vale Poingdestre , Warwick , Wyeth , Zarkon Poingdestre
Mentioned: Ashlesh , Azir , Blitzcrank , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Eramis , Evil Kay , Farron , Fiddlesticks , Janna , Jayce , Kay , Nasus , Orianna , Renata Glasc , Seraphine , Shomi , Singed , Twitch , Urgot , Vi , Viktor , Zac , Zeri , Ziggs
A Snowdown Snowtale
The Poro King sends a young poro on an urgent mission: find the one with the magnificent mustache to save Snowdown!
Starring: Bard , Braum , Gnar , Graves , Karma , Malzahar , Singed , Syndra , Ziggs
Hextech Mayhem
By Choice Provisions
THIS’LL BE A BLAST!
Starring: Heimerdinger , Ziggs
Music Video
By Numerous creators
Since its inception, Worlds has grown and evolved. Each unbelievable play and phenomenal match created moments and memories that will never be forgotten. In these iconic moments, players and teams reached for something incredible within themselves and brought it to life on the Summoner’s Rift...
Starring: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Brand , Caitlyn , Darius , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Gnar , Janna , Jax , Jayce , Jinx , Kassadin , Katarina , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lulu , Orianna , Rek'Sai , Rengar , Rumble , Ryze , Shen , Sivir , Tahm Kench , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Yasuo , Ziggs
Return to the Stars
Starring: Aurelion Sol , Bard , Cassiopeia , Gnar , Illaoi , Kog'Maw , Nautilus , Nocturne , Teemo , Urgot , Vayne , Viktor , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
By Agnete Kjølsrud , Christian Linke
Jinx's dreams come alive in a hexplosive sequence packed with bombs and bullets and her unique take on fun.
Starring: Jinx
Mentioned: Ziggs
Mac Client Available
Starring: Dr. Mundo
Mentioned: Amumu , Ashe , Caitlyn , Ezreal , Fizz , Gragas , Graves , Katarina , Master Yi , Miss Fortune , Mordekaiser , Orianna , Riven , Ryze , Singed , Soraka , Viktor , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Reaching the peak takes more than skill. Only those with the ambition to RISE above all others will know its height.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Akali , Ashe , Braum , Darius , Ekko , Ezreal , Fiora , Garen , Gnar , Jarvan IV , Jax , Jinx , Kalista , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Leona , Lux , Master Yi , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Riven , Ryze , Sejuani , Swain , Taliyah , Thresh , Tryndamere , Vayne , Xayah , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
Welcome Aboard
Consider this your invite to join the greatest crew in the galaxy.
Starring: Jinx , Kayn , Malphite , Rhaast , Sona , Yasuo
Mentioned: Garen , Katarina , Lux , Ziggs
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Once a member of Icathia's governing council, Zilean is a prodigious elemental mage who seeks mastery over time itself. After using his powers in an attempt to save his people from the Void , he now drifts through the past, present, and future, bending and warping the flow of time around him. Zilean has traveled from Runeterra's mysterious creation, all the way to its seemingly inevitable ending, searching tirelessly for any strand of fate that might undo his homeland's destruction.
Zilean was born and raised in Icathia , becoming an elemental mage with an exquisite knowledge of physical reality. He studied under many great minds of the time, including the Yun of Ixtal . He spent much of his time trying to master the element of time, but could not find success.
When he was a young man, Zilean was appointed to Icathia's governing council of distinguished mages, philosophers, and lawmakers. Now in a political establishment, Zilean realized that discontentment was growing among the people of Icathia. Despite being part of the empire of Shurima , the Icathians were not treated as equals by their superiors. As such, many considered secession. However, Zilean knew that Icathia would lose any battle, as Shurima's power eclipsed that of Icathia, with Ascended soldiers being Shurima's strongest weapons.
After coming back from a diplomatic voyage in which he had failed to convince Icathia's allies to support their secession, Zilean found out that his fellow mages had found a way to harness the power of The Void . While he warned against it, the mages ignored his warnings and tried to use the harnessed power in battle. The magic of The Void overpowered the mages that used it and spread through Icathia. As Icathia was swallowed into The Void, Zilean gathered as many people into his tower as possible before removing the tower and all of its inhabitants from time. Everyone and everything that Zilean had removed, save for Zilean himself, was frozen in time. Zilean learned to control the anomaly that he made, learning to move through the past and present, attempting to succeed in his efforts. But as he attempted to do this, he found out that Runeterra was in danger of being completely destroyed.
Resolving to save the world from this fate, Zilean left his anomaly and began his quest to save Runeterra.
Zilean is an elderly pale man. His most notable features are his long white beard and hair (that hovers with magic). He wears robes with muted colors and a red sash. While using time magic, his brown eyes turn glowing pupiless and a clock like elemental mechanism hovers behind him.
Zilean is a determined and caring individual, doing everything he can to save those in Runeterra from the end of all things. He cares for his fellow Icathians and is resigned to helping them escape the time prison that he accidentally put them in.
While they have never directly interacted, Zilean and Jax are among the only surviving Icathians left.
The Chronokeeper
By Ian St. Martin
Starring: Zilean
Guardians of the Ancient (Video)
Runeterra is in turmoil! Noxian warships set sail for Ionia’s shores. But all is not lost. Heroes will rise. Fates will change.
Mentioned: Farron , Irelia , Malphite
Short Story
Ruination (Novel)
By Anthony Reynolds Lenné
Camavor is a brutal land with a bloody legacy. Where the empire’s knights go, slaughter follows. Kalista seeks to change that. When her young and narcissistic uncle, Viego, becomes king she vows to temper his destructive instincts as his loyal confidant, advisor, and military general. But her plans are thwarted when an assassin’s poisoned blade strikes Viego’s wife, Isolde, afflicting her with a malady for which there is no cure. As Isolde’s condition worsens, Viego descends into madness and grief, threatening to drag Camavor down with him. Kalisa makes a desperate gambit to save the kingdom: She searches for the long-lost Blessed Isles, rumored to hold the queen’s salvation if only Kalista can find them. But corruption grows in the Blessed Isle’s capital, where a vengeful warden seeks to ensnare Kalista in his cruel machinations. She will be forced to choose between her loyalty to Viego and doing what she knows is right–for even in the face of utter darkness, one noble act can shine a light that saves the world.
Starring: Hecarim , Isolde , Kalista , Ledros , Necrit , Ryze , Soraka , Thresh , Viego , Yorick
Mentioned: Gwen , Kindred , LeBlanc , Maokai , Zilean
Short Story • 22 Minute Read
Where Icathia Once Stood
By Graham McNeill
My name is Axamuk Var-Choi Kohari Icath'or.
Starring: Jax
Mentioned: Aatrox , Kayn , Nasus , Renekton , Rhaast , Varus , Zilean
Clash of Fates
Starring: Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Cho'Gath , Evelynn , Jax , Karthus , Kayle , Master Yi , Nunu , Rammus , Ryze , Singed , Sivir , Soraka , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Warwick , Willump , Zilean
Journal of Justice
By Institute of War
Formare veneficum est formare fatum.
Starring: Akali , Alistar , Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Corki , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Gangplank , Garen , Gragas , Heimerdinger , Irelia , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jax , Karma , Karthus , Kassadin , Katarina , Kayle , Kennen , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Leona , Lissandra , Lux , Malzahar , Maokai , Master Yi , Mordekaiser , Morgana , Nasus , Nidalee , Nocturne , Nunu , Olaf , Pantheon , Poppy , Rammus , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Shaco , Shen , Singed , Sion , Sivir , Skarner , Sona , Soraka , Swain , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Udyr , Urgot , Veigar , Vladimir , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Xin Zhao , Yorick , Zilean
Short Story • 2 Minute Read
Instrument of Destruction
By Leslee Sullivant Heintz
A tentacled horror of the Void, Vel'Koz explores Runeterra with singular purpose: to absorb all knowledge. With his unceasing gaze, Vel'Koz fires disintegrating beams that obliterate and analyze all in his path, feeding him vast quantities of information. None know why he requires such material, though some speculate he seeks to understand Runeterra in order to hasten its ruin.
Starring: Vel'Koz
Mentioned: Zilean
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
As the embodiment of mischief, imagination, and change, Zoe acts as the cosmic messenger of Targon , heralding major events that reshape worlds. Her mere presence warps the arcane mathematics governing realities, sometimes causing cataclysms without conscious effort or malice. This perhaps explains the breezy nonchalance with which Zoe approaches her duties, giving her plenty of time to focus on playing games, tricking mortals, or otherwise amusing herself. An encounter with Zoe can be joyous and life affirming, but it is always more than it appears and often extremely dangerous.
Zoe was born thousands of years ago in the Rakkor tribe of Mount Targon . When she was a teenager, her teachers suffered constant headaches when trying to educate her because although she was a fairly intelligent, bubbly and stubborn girl, she was also quite naughty and distracted.
Zoe has the appearance of a young girl. She has floating peach-colored hair which transitions into a ethereal purple at its tips. Her left eye is purple while her right one is turquoise. She wears a seafoam green scarf and a teal shirt with a matching belt and pair of shorts respectively. Her sandals are dark green and she wears multiple golden pieces of jewelry such as hair decorations, bracelets, and a necklace.
As the embodiment of mischief, imagination, and change, Zoe is a very mischievous and imaginative girl. She enjoys playing tricks on mortals and has an endless imagination. While she's seen as a threat by humans, Zoe is, in actuality, very friendly and tries to make friends with whoever she can. However, she still won't hesitate to fight back against those who threaten her, as shown when she threw a meteor at several enraged guards who tried to attack her. She's also incredibly bubbly and perky, having incredibly high levels of energy all the time.
Aurelion Sol and Zoe are sorta friends—but he knows not to trust her. And in fact she is his best hope of getting free—after he learns what he needs. [ 1 ] She protected him from the wrath of Pantheon , the Aspect of War and speaks to him as if he were her dog.
She "borrowed" a chime from Bard , or it was given to her. Zoe heralds change while Bard prevents disasters, so they probably meet from time to time.
Zoe really likes Ezreal , and as such she considers Lux her rival.
Based on their interactions in Legends of Runeterra , Zoe and Lulu seem to know each other on a friendly term.
She took the key from Fiddlesticks , which was used to unleash something "beautiful and terrible in its joy". [ 2 ]
The previous Aspect of Twilight, Myisha, led the Darkin Ta'anari to Nasus . Nasus, in turn, guided Ta'anari to the Chalicar , an ancient blade that once belonged to the Ascended queen Setaka. Ta'anari used the weapon to perform a ritual that reverted the Ascension of nearby Darkins, vaporizing them. Myisha and other Targonian Aspects later gave the mortals the tool to trap the remaining Darkins. As a result, the Darkins who are now roaming free again, especially Aatrox , despise every Aspect and their host, most noticeably The Aspect of Twilight/Zoe.
The Aspect of Twilight
By Odin Austin Shafer
Starring: Zoe
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Mordekaiser
Short Story • 5 Minute Read
The moment she thought of the cake store, Zoe dove into the air, surrendering herself to gravity. While falling, she reached out with her consciousness to form a gateway. Instantly, a portal opened beneath her and connected to the other place. She fell into the gate. Her mass collided and imploded as she traveled.
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Pantheon
Short Story • 25 Minute Read
Twilight of the Gods
By Graham McNeill
They came to a dead city in the mountain's shadow under cover of night.
Starring: Naganeka , Zoe
Mentioned: Aatrox , Azir , Nasus , Rhaast , Varus
The Ancient Fear
By Jared Rosen
Starring: Fiddlesticks
Mentioned: Zoe
The Darkin Blade
Starring: Aatrox
Mentioned: Pantheon , Zoe
The Ice Witch
By Ariel Lawrence
Starring: Lissandra
Mentioned: Ashe , Sejuani , Volibear , Zoe
Short Story • 3 Minute Read
The Mountain
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker.
Starring: N/A
Mentioned: Aurelion Sol , Diana , Leona , Pantheon , Taric , Zoe
A New Journey
Inspired by the true story of Michelle, a university student and League of Legends player who joined a team and joined the fight. Season 2019 of League of Legends starts now! It's On.
Starring: Ahri , Blitzcrank , Braum , Caitlyn , Ekko , Miss Fortune , Ornn , Riven , Yasuo , Zed , Zoe
Another Sky
By Jared Rosen , Taylor Dinwiddie , Ty Sheedlo
As a new generation of Star Guardians prepares to fight back the forces of chaos, rising star Akali finds herself wracked with doubt. Does she have what it takes to be a Star Guardian? Or will the darkness she senses inside spell doom for her and her friends?
Starring: Akali , Ekko , Fiddlesticks , Kai'Sa , Morgana , Nilah , Quinn , Rell , Sona , Syndra , Taliyah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Akshan , Ezreal , Gwen , Jinx , Lux , Miss Fortune , Rakan , Xayah
Music Video
Light and Shadow
By Numerous creators
A cosmic darkness threatens to overcome three former teammates who were thought to have perished.
Starring: Ahri , Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Miss Fortune
Lunar Feast
Mythmaking is hungry work. Thankfully, you and your elite team of chefs are ready to cook up a storm in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Feast!
Starring: Caitlyn , Camille , Gwen , Seraphine , Zoe
Star-Crossed: Convince Me
By Jared Rosen , Callie Miller
Xayah travels to a new planet to enlist the help of a seasoned Star Guardian with a big gun and, secretly, a bigger heart.
Starring: Rakan , Senna , Xayah , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Miss Fortune
The Roadtrip
By Cassie Parkes , Marvin Clifford
Starring: Caitlyn , Gangplank , Zoe
Mentioned: Ahri , Ashe , Azir , Bard , Braum , Darius , Fiddlesticks , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Irelia , Jinx , Kalista , Katarina , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Lulu , Master Yi , Nami , Poppy , Rakan , Shaco , Sona , Swain , Taric , Teemo , Twisted Fate , Varus , Xayah , Yasuo , Zilean
The Unlikely Companions
Join Zoe and Kog'Maw as they journey through a magical world and confront the dark wizard, Shaco.
Starring: Kog'Maw , Shaco , Zoe
Short Story
By Cat Cheresh
Akali could see the stars.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Kai'Sa , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Neeko , Poppy , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
A New Horizon
A mysterious new team arrives: Star Guardian Ahri, Miss Fortune, Syndra, Soraka, and Ezreal.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Miss Fortune , Soraka , Syndra
Mentioned: Neeko , Rakan , Xayah , Zoe
Academy Adventures: Series 3
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Star-Crossed: Embrace
Final showdown! The Guardians have played all their cards, but something in Xayah tells her to keep fighting—she’ll find a way to redeem Rakan or die (again) trying.
Starring: Ahri , Akali , Kai'Sa , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
Star-Crossed: Hope
Months later, some familiar faces from Xayah’s past appear during the heat of battle. Her team may be stronger than ever, but what if Rakan doesn’t want to be saved?
Starring: Ahri , Miss Fortune , Orianna , Rakan , Senna , Seraphine , Xayah
A team bonding trip will test Lux's leadership and confidence as the group welcomes new stars during the annual meteor shower.
Starring: Ahri , Ezreal , Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy , Soraka , Syndra
The Tale of the Poro King
Mentioned: Aatrox , Akali , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Darius , Diana , Draven , Ezreal , Gnar , Illaoi , Janna , Jarvan IV , Jayce , Kai'Sa , Karma , Karthus , Katarina , Kayle , Kayn , Kennen , Kha'Zix , Lee Sin , Leona , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nunu , Ornn , Pantheon , Pyke , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Rhaast , Ryze , Sejuani , Shen , Sion , Sivir , Soraka , Sylas , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Thresh , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Vi , Volibear , Willump , Yasuo , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe
The Twilight Star
I have too many questions I want to ask her.
Starring: Janna , Jinx , Lulu , Lux , Miss Fortune , Poppy
Mentioned: Ahri , Ezreal , Neeko , Pantheon , Rakan , Soraka , Syndra , Xayah , Zoe
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Born in an ancient, sorcerous catastrophe, Zyra is the wrath of nature given form—an alluring hybrid of plant and human, kindling new life with every step. She views the many mortals of Runeterra as little more than prey for her seeded progeny, and thinks nothing of slaying them with flurries of deadly spines. Though her true purpose has not been revealed, Zyra wanders the world, indulging her most primal urges to colonize, and strangle all other life from it.
Zyra existed thousands of years ago as a collective hive-mind of carnivorous plants that lived together in a place called Gardens of Zyr , somewhere in the Shuriman jungle. Sometime during the Rune Wars , a party of soldiers accompanied by an ambitious sorceress visited the garden and were attacked by the plants. In an act of fear, the sorceress unleashed a magical attack that ignited the fumes of the swamp, causing a magical explosion that destroyed everything in its path. The gardens remained lifeless for hundreds of years after.
After centuries without life in the gardens, Zyra emerged from the lifeless ground, not fully plant nor fully human. She struggled to understand her new existence and came to be curious of the new world she was able to explore.
Her plants seem to be slowly expanding westward towards the Mother of Life river system of the Shurima Capital .
Zyra's flowers were collected by a flower shop in the market city of Kumangra . The owner watered one of the flowers and placed it in his study. From the flower bloomed a large mass of vines and flowers that covered the entire study and wrapped the shop owner into a cocoon, killing him. After the shop owner's wife found him, Zyra appeared in the study, stopping the wife from destroying the flower and wrapping her in a cocoon, killing her. As the woman died, she saw visions of a world covered in Zyra's plants with nothing else in sight.
Zyra is a wondrous vision of a creature, resembling a human woman covered with plants, which seem to be parts of her body. Her eyes are very similar to a panther's, with narrow irises that are common to predators.
Zyra is a vicious, predatory creature. In spite of gaining human intelligence, Zyra still has the natural instinct of consuming and devouring of a vicious predator. Her ultimate goal is to envelop the world with her plants, making it beautiful and ridding it of all that isn't her.
She thinks of humans as no little more than prey and thinks they show no respect to the environments they live.
She has expressed animosity towards spirits and thinks they are arrogant.
Rise of the Thorns
By Marc Collins , Laurie Goulding
Starring: Zyra
Short Story
With the Flowers
By Matthew Dunn
“Step into the garden that ever grows…” Zyra whispered through the stems and petals. “Death blossoms, and you don't want to miss the colors, do you?”
Milio's Super-Special Adventure Reports
By Elyse Lemoine
Greetings, family! It is I, Milio, with my first official Adventure Report!
Starring: Milio
Mentioned: Malphite , Neeko , Nidalee , Zyra
Day breaks over a landscape consecrated by blood and steel. A battle begins as a new dawn rises.
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Draven , Graves , Jax , Katarina , Leona , Nautilus , Rengar , Zyra
Lunar Extravaganza (Wild Rift)
The Lunar New Year is here, and it's time to celebrate! Help prepare for the festivities and join in by lighting lanterns and sending (and receiving!) red envelopes in League of Legends: Wild Rift's Lunar Extravaganza!
Starring: Aatrox , Graves , Thresh , Zeri , Zyra
Punches and Plants: Series 1
Starring: Vi , Zyra
Mentioned: Ahri , Alistar , Annie , Ashe , Blitzcrank , Brand , Braum , Caitlyn , Darius , Diana , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Evelynn , Ezreal , Gangplank , Garen , Gnar , Gragas , Graves , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jinx , Karma , Katarina , Leona , Lucian , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Nunu , Quinn , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Sejuani , Sivir , Sona , Soraka , Tahm Kench , Taliyah , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Trundle , Tryndamere , Twisted Fate , Twitch , Valor , Varus , Vel'Koz , Vladimir , Volibear , Warwick , Willump , Wukong , Zac , Ziggs
Punches and Plants: Series 2
Mentioned: Aatrox , Ahri , Alistar , Amumu , Annie , Aurelion Sol , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Diana , Draven , Ekko , Ezreal , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Graves , Heimerdinger , Jayce , Kha'Zix , Kog'Maw , Leona , Lucian , Lux , Malphite , Maokai , Miss Fortune , Nasus , Nautilus , Nidalee , Olaf , Orianna , Poppy , Quinn , Rakan , Renekton , Riven , Rumble , Shaco , Taric , Teemo , Tibbers , Tristana , Trundle , Udyr , Valor , Vel'Koz , Viktor , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Xin Zhao , Yasuo , Ziggs
Academy Adventures: Series 1
By Gutter Rat
Starring: Ahri , Darius , Ekko , Vladimir
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Anivia , Azir , Bard , Blitzcrank , Braum , Cho'Gath , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Ivern , Jhin , Jinx , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nidalee , Olaf , Poppy , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Shen , Sion , Sona , Soraka , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Vel'Koz , Vi , Yorick , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 2
Mentioned: Amumu , Anivia , Annie , Ashe , Aurelion Sol , Braum , Caitlyn , Cho'Gath , Dr. Mundo , Draven , Elise , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Heimerdinger , Janna , Jhin , Jinx , Kog'Maw , Lulu , Lux , Malphite , Malzahar , Miss Fortune , Nami , Nasus , Olaf , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Riven , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sona , Soraka , Syndra , Taliyah , Talon , Taric , Teemo , Thresh , Tibbers , Tristana , Twitch , Urgot , Varus , Veigar , Volibear , Warwick , Wukong , Xayah , Yasuo , Yorick , Zac , Zed , Ziggs , Zyra
Academy Adventures: Series 3
Mentioned: Akali , Amumu , Bard , Blitzcrank , Draven , Elise , Evelynn , Ezreal , Fiddlesticks , Fiora , Fizz , Galio , Gnar , Jayce , Jhin , Kayn , Kog'Maw , LeBlanc , Lulu , Lux , Malzahar , Nasus , Nunu , Poppy , Rakan , Rammus , Rek'Sai , Renekton , Rhaast , Rumble , Ryze , Shaco , Singed , Sivir , Sona , Taliyah , Talon , Teemo , Tristana , Trundle , Twitch , Varus , Veigar , Warwick , Xayah , Zed , Ziggs , Zoe , Zyra
Olaf vs Everything: Series 2
By Tom Barton
Starring: Olaf
Mentioned: Ahri , Aurelion Sol , Brand , Cassiopeia , Cho'Gath , Darius , Dr. Mundo , Ekko , Gnar , Illaoi , Karthus , Kog'Maw , Lee Sin , Nagakabouros , Ornn , Renekton , Skarner , Teemo , Tryndamere , Urgot , Vel'Koz , Vi , Viktor , Vladimir , Warwick , Zyra
Zyra, Rise of the Thorns
Original Zyra
Gold efficiency
Only the boldest of men and women dare take the risky trip to the hottest spot in Valoran , in the very center of the Shurima Desert. Those who successfully make the journey may bathe their swords in a magical pool of the purest water known to this world. Any edge dipped into this pool will stay sharper and strike truer than any other sword.
Gold efficiency
Quicken Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Passive Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold Value per 100 bonus Mana from outside sources
Gold Value per stack (non-champion)
Gold Value per stack (champion)
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Slightly Magical Boots
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
This article or section may contain obsolete information, but exists here for historical purposes.
A Sweeper Drone is a device that sweeps the surrounding area, granting obscured vision of enemy units within that are not visible .
Gold Value per stack (non-champion)
Gold Value per stack (champion)
Fully Stacked Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Few are fortunate enough to come across the tears of the very goddess who created our world... but those who are lucky enough to acquire a Tear of the Goddess may take pleasure in a significant boost of mana points and mana points regeneration.
Gold efficiency
Old Item VFX.
Rage Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Blighting Jewel
Gold efficiency
Fervor Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Lifeline Omnivamp value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold Value per 100 Health from outside sources
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Colossal Consumption Max Health: 10% of damage ⇒ 8% of damage
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Rapids Ally Buff Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Sanctify Buff Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Dissipate Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Spelldance Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Click "Show" to view the list for special interactions with certain ultimate abilities and Hatefog :
Passive Gold Value (per Stack)
Passive Gold Value (Fully Stacked)
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
This article or section may contain obsolete information, but exists here for historical purposes.
Gold Value per 100 Mana from other sources
Gold efficiency
This article or section may contain obsolete information, but exists here for historical purposes.
A champion affected by the Doom debuff.
Deathfire Grasp's active.
Gold efficiency
Hextech Rocketbelt
This article or section may contain obsolete information, but exists here for historical purposes.
Gold Value per Stack
Gold Value with maximum stacks
Gold efficiency
This article or section may contain obsolete information, but exists here for historical purposes.
Gold efficiency
Preparation Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Eminence Gold Value
Eminence Gold Value per Stack
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Shadow Gold Value
Juxtaposition Gold Value per Light stack
Juxtaposition Gold Value at maximum Light stacks
Juxtaposition Gold Value per Dark stack
Juxtaposition Gold Value at maximum Dark stacks
Juxtaposition Gold Value at maximum Light and Dark stacks
Gold efficiency
Dark Hit VFX
Light Hit VFX
Overdrive Gold Value
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
First Light Gold Value (base stats)
First Light Gold Value per 100% base mana regeneration
Gold efficiency
Gold Value of maximum Momentum passive
Gold efficiency
Gold efficiency
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Selection UI
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Legend Stack Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Legend Stack Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Legend Stack Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Bounty Hunter Stack Gained VFX
Treasure Hunter Gold Received VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Bounty Hunter Stack Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Bounty Hunter Stack Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Trigger VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Movement Speed VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Adaptive Force Gained VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Trigger VFX
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Press the Attack ▪ Lethal Tempo ▪ Fleet Footwork ▪ Conqueror Absorb Life ▪ Triumph ▪ Presence of Mind Legend: Alacrity ▪ Legend: Haste ▪ Legend: Bloodline Coup de Grace ▪ Cut Down ▪ Last Stand
Electrocute ▪ Dark Harvest ▪ Hail of Blades Cheap Shot ▪ Taste of Blood ▪ Sudden Impact Deep Ward Deep Ward ▪ Sixth Sense Sixth Sense ▪ Grisly Mementos Grisly Mementos Treasure Hunter ▪ Relentless Hunter ▪ Ultimate Hunter
Summon Aery ▪ Arcane Comet ▪ Phase Rush Axiom Acanist Axiom Acanist ▪ Manaflow Band ▪ Nimbus Cloak Transcendence ▪ Celerity ▪ Absolute Focus Scorch ▪ Waterwalking ▪ Gathering Storm
Grasp of the Undying ▪ Aftershock ▪ Guardian Demolish ▪ Font of Life ▪ Shield Bash Conditioning ▪ Second Wind ▪ Bone Plating Overgrowth ▪ Revitalize ▪ Unflinching
Glacial Augment ▪ Unsealed Spellbook ▪ First Strike Hextech Flashtraption ▪ Magical Footwear ▪ Cash Back Triple Tonic ▪ Time Warp Tonic ▪ Biscuit Delivery Cosmic Insight ▪ Approach Velocity ▪ Jack of All Trades
Trait: Sorcery ▪ Trait: Resolve ▪ Trait: Precision ▪ Trait: Inspiration ▪ Trait: Domination ▪ The Ultimate Hat ▪ Ravenous Hunter ▪ Perfect Timing ▪ Mirror Shell ▪ Iron Skin ▪ Celestial Body ▪ Kleptomancy ▪ Chrysalis ▪ Prototype: Omnistone ▪ Future's Market ▪ Ingenious Hunter ▪ Legend: Tenacity ▪ Minion Dematerializer ▪ Overheal ▪ Predator
Flash is a location-targeted summoner spell that causes your champion to blink to the location in range of your cursor.
Teleport is a unit-targeted summoner spell that blinks your champion to the target allied unit after a few seconds of channeling .
Teleport transforms into Unleashed Teleport after 10:00 .
Transformation VFX
In addition to any friendly minion or turret , Unleashed Teleport can be used on a number of allied summoned units. These include, but are not limited to:
However, Unleashed Teleport does not work on:
Ignite is a unit-targeted summoner spell that burns an enemy champion for a few seconds, dealing periodic true damage , applying healing reduction , and revealing the target over the duration.
The following table compares the effectiveness of Barrier vs Heal on a target affected by Ignite .
Smite is a unit-targeted summoner spell that deals true damage to the target large or medium monster, enemy minion, or pet.
It is required to buy Gustwalker Hatchling , Mosstomper Seedling or Scorchclaw Pup .
The following items upgraded Smite after being cast 5 times by granting additional effects:
The following removed items upgraded Smite by granting additional effects:
Heal is an auto-targeted summoner spell that instantly restores health to your champion and an ally while also granting a small burst of movement speed .
The following table compares the effectiveness of Barrier vs Heal on a target affected by Ignite .
The Howling Abyss bridge is located in the Freljord and serves as a gateway to the Frostguard citadel.
Link ▶️ "This is more than just a bridge, you know. Maybe it was once a simple thing of stone and mortar, but now it bears the weight of the entire Freljord on its back.
"The fate of this land was decided here, ages ago, in a long and brutal battle. Just look around and listen, that noise is more than the wind - it is the cry of the vanquished, thrown howling into the abyss!
"Everyone's forgotten who built this bridge and why. Everyone's forgotten the war that gave this place its scars. Everyone, but me. I was there! I saw the battle! I died here, and I never left this place! I was bound here to stand guard and sound my war horn if our enemy ever returned.
"And now, now the howling grows louder, and I sense something evil stirring in the abyss, my hand reaches for my war horn. This place will soon see a battle again. One that will shape the Freljord for all time. And if the Freljord falls, so too will the rest of the world.
"Yes, this is more than just a bridge." - Gregor
Link ▶️ "The Howling Abyss. A bottomless crevasse surrounded by an ancient fortress carved into a glacier. No one remembers who built this place. No one knows its purpose. No one but me.
"Long before Ashe and Sejuani , before magic shattered the broken peaks, before the desert swallowed Shurima , it was the time of the Three Sisters. We were so young back then; Avarosa, Serylda, and me, Lissandra.
"Back then the Frozen Watchers lived here. I do not know where they came from, but I know they were powerful. They gave us gifts, shared their magic, made us immortal. They named us 'Iceborn'.
"In return, we gave them whatever they desired. This mighty fortress, a vast empire, our loyalty, these were a small price to pay. Avarosa did not see it that way. Like a spoiled child she cried out for freedom. She demanded choice. She sowed the seeds of rebellion and betrayal.
"This place is where it happened. On one side, the Frozen Watchers, on the other, Avarosa and her Iceborn horde. Many Iceborn died that day, but in the end, the Watchers fell. Avarosa drove them howling into the abyss.
"I never forgave her. I had my revenge... but that is another story." - Lissandra
Poros and the Poro King .
Poros are the mysterious, magical, and most-loved creatures originating from the Howling Abyss. Poros are equal parts truth, valor, and innocence. The colour of their fur is described as “very light blue, like Freljordian snow”. They have a heart-shaped underbelly because they're made of love. A poro's horns perk up when it's excited and droop down when it's scared. Poros paddle through deep snow with their front paws. Some believe that poros are indestructible—though at one point we animated poros to keel over and twitch if they ran into the Abyss' fountains. Poros stick their tongue out because they are incredibly warm. This is why they can survive the harsh cold environment of the Howling Abyss. Poro-Snax are frosted with Freljordian ice crystals and are a favourite treat of this creature. The leader of the Poros is known as the Poro King .
An eternally thick, unnatural fog blankets the islands from the view of outsiders. It is thought that the islands are home to countless forms of undead, though no one seems eager to perform the exploration necessary to find out the truth.
Elise, the Spider Queen.
As I wandered deeper I saw death all around me. Ghostly trees, grass, and flowers engulfed me in their horrifying radiance. It was so quiet and so beautiful. I passed my hand through a spectral leaf fluttering in the wind, but there was no wind. That was when I understood that death was another world and I was at its door.
Then I heard the song; the spider's song. My companion cried out in terror and fell to his knees. I embraced him. I told him he had nothing to fear. He was going to a better place. I will take them all to a better place."
Treants are a fusion of nature spirits (or any sapient species) and plant life. One such species was the Omikayalan God-Willow, which essence was later transferred to the Freljordian warrior Ivern . Other example is Maokai , a nature spirit fused with the plant life and natural magicks of the Blessed Isles. Besides treants that share humanoid physical and sapient characteristics, there are those that take animalistic forms and behaviors such as those that take form of felines, lizards, or toads. A vast majority of these treants are corrupted by the undead magics of the Shadow Isles and have lost most of their sapience due to the Ruination. Maokai is among the being the very few Blessed Isles treants that survived such a fate.
Resembling that of an arachnid spider whose grotesque mass is furred and scabbed with wet, mutant growths. Adorned with venomous fangs and colossal legs used to heave its corrupt body. This unearthly horror is a monstrous creature that looms in the darkest pits beneath the Shadow Isles. The true origin of Vilemaw is completely unknown, save for the assumption that the voracious spider god is an otherworldly life-form not originally from Runeterra.
It has great physical strength as well as magical, being able to transfigure willing humans into its servants. It uses its servants to gather fresh food.
Crystal Scar is a place located south of Kalamanda in the North-West part of the Shuriman Continent as part of Shurima .
Crystal Scar Map
When the cataclysmic forces of the Rune Wars began to devastate the world, the Brackern feared the turmoil would soon mark the end of their species. They resolved to hide in hibernation until humans wiped themselves out, as it seemed certain they would. Only then would it be safe to emerge from the sands once more.
They slept in peaceful isolation as centuries passed before Skarner awoke from his shallow burrow in a panic. Deafening explosions shattered the ground, targeting the Brackern where they lay sleeping and stunning those closest to the surface. A band of robbers had discovered the dormant creatures and were prying crystals from crystalline flesh. Skarner, protected from the brunt of the attack by his crystal, erupted from the sand in a terrible frenzy of sharp pincers and poisonous stabs . Though their numbers all but overwhelmed him, he killed many of the thieves, and the rest fled in terror. Skarner was horrified to learn he was the only one awake, and that many of his people's crystals had already been stolen.
Skarner tried to revive his dormant companions, but the men had broken so many life stones in their thoughtless theft that several Brackern with damaged crystals died moments after Skarner woke them, while others would not wake at all. For weeks Skarner paced the sand above his sleeping brethren in sorrowful mourning. He was certain the crystals would quickly perish in the hands of men, and mourned their loss too.
Yet as the sun broke over the horizon many weeks later, Skarner heard distant echoes calling in his mind. The cries were faint, but rang clear over the land. These voices of the lost stones reached out to him in terror, imploring Skarner to reconnect them with their kind. Skarner hesitated, torn as to whether he should rescue the lost crystals or continue guarding the still-living Brackern. After weeks spent erasing all traces of the excavation, he could not stand to hear the minds of his kin suffering at the hands of the violent humans, and resolved to set out to save the missing crystals.
Skarner began the arduous task of tracking the stones, hoping no others would discover his kin beneath the sand. Though his search is lonely, he occasionally hears a lost crystal calling to him, a feeling that brings joy and anguish in equal measure. He focuses his sorrow into unshakable determination, and refuses to rest until he has recovered every last life stone.
Welcome to the wiki for Teamfight Tactics , the autobattler game developed by Riot Games .
Advertisement
Dota Auto Chess • Dota Underlords • Hearthstone: Battlegrounds • Teamfight Tactics
Want your community included? See how!
U.R.F. Mode
Ultra Rapid Fire (U.R.F.) is a Featured Game Mode played on Summoner's Rift where all champions are able to use their abilities and spells very frequently and without costs, accelerating the pace of the match. All champions in this mode have a permanent buff that adds many adjustments to how the game is played. The two main effects granted by this buff are 300 ability haste (equivalent to 75% cooldown reduction) and the removal of all mana and energy costs from abilities .
Ultra Rapid Fire alternates between All Random and Blind Pick at times when it is present.
As balanced changes from previous events have been observed in-game despite not being documented by Riot, all possible recurring changes have been listed below and appropriately denoted. The reason for distinguishing these changes is that the values listed are those from previous event notes and may not reflect the current value.
Note that any cooldowns detailed below are as they appear in-game (i.e. they are not reduced by Ultra Rapid buff to a lower value).
This table extracts the data from Module:ChampionData/data and Template:map_changes/data/urf .
One for All mode
One for All is a limited time game mode in League of Legends . Players battle in a 5v5 match on Summoner's Rift , similar to Classic mode, with the only difference being that all champions on each team are the same. The mode was first made available from 2 November 2013 to 2 December 2013. It is occasionally relaunched to align with April Fools' Day .
One for All games could also be created and played as a Custom Game at one point with the map choice not being limited to Summoner's Rift; all other maps could be chosen.
One for All (illustration)
The drafting type for selecting champions in One for All is called "Vote Pick", which follows most rules from Draft pick , but the final lock-in of champions is percentage-weighted by using a voting system within the team:
Starting from the 2020 version, the majority pick (3 votes) no longer automatically wins the vote, allowing for players who are against the odds to have a fighting chance. Also, 4 votes now automatically win the vote.
Karthus and Teemo were disabled in this mode in the past, and were accidentally enabled in 2015. They could only be played in custom matches.
In the V8.15 iteration, One for All was around 12. 5 % of hours around its end. [ 1 ]
Due to the nature of teams in One for All, some champions and their abilities work differently in the mode.
The following champions apply debuffs to enemies that interact with their abilities in some fashion. If using the same champion, other players can gain these bonus effects even if they did not originally apply the debuff.
The following champions apply marks to enemies. If using the same champion, these marks can be triggered by other players.
The following champions create objects on the field. If using the same champion, these can be interacted with by other players.
This table extracts the data from Module:ChampionData/data and Template:map_changes/data/ofa .
One for All: Mirror Mode
"Last time you tangoed with One for All, you could nuke the enemy team with five Final Sparks or chain together a series of Unstoppable Forces. Some teams even achieved immortality with back-to-back-to-back-to-back-to-back Chronoshifts.
Now it's time for One For All: Mirror Mode! We've moved the action to the Howling Abyss and changed the rules so players on both teams clash with the same champ. Soon you'll really play pinball with Monsoons, dodgeball with Dark Spheres or hide-and-seek with ten times the Noxious Traps.
For this iteration of One For All, champ select is determined by the combined nominations of both teams. A vote tracker shows the nominated champions - if one champ achieves a strict majority, they're chosen. If not, we base the choice on a weighted random from all the nominated champs, so if four people vote for Amumu, three people pick Blitzcrank and the last three all pick different champs; there's a 40% chance everyone plays Amumu, a 30% chance everyone plays Blitz and a 10% chance for each of the remaining champs!
After playing your first game, you'll permanently unlock the One For All icon (it'll take a few days to hit your account). Additionally, we've added a feature to One For All: Mirror Mode that allows you to purchase a Battle Boost for your team during champ select. If you purchase one (150 RP), you'll temporarily unlock all the chosen champ's currently available skins for yourself and your allies. Everyone on your team also gets a one-game 100 IP boost!
This game mode was inspired by feedback from you guys, so let us know what you think! One For All: Mirror Mode will be live from May 29 through June 8 and we'll be hanging out on the Community Beta looking for your thoughts and awesome ideas!" [ 2 ]
Ultimate Spellbook is a Featured Game Mode in League of Legends . Players choose one additional, random champion's ultimate ability to deploy in chaotic duels and teamfights. [ 1 ]
Ultimate spell selection UI
Junglers have " Placeholder and Attack-Smite " instead of Placeholder Ult-ernate Summoner Spell in champion select. It gets replaced by the Ult-ernate Summoner Spell that they select at the beginning of the game and causes jungle items ( ) to gain a new passive effect named Attack Smite .
This table extracts the data from Module:ChampionData/data and Template:map_changes/data/usb .
Nexus Blitz
Nexus Blitz (Project SLIME ) is an experimental mode that ran from July 31st to September 11th, 2018. It started being playable for alpha testing on live servers on patch V8.16 . [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
On June 23rd, 2020 (public beta patch V10.14 ), Nexus Blitz was brought back on public testing servers with new visuals of the Ionian Spirit Blossom Forests known as the Temple of Lily and Lotus . The game mode was available from July 22nd, 2020 (11:59 PM PDT) till August 24th, 2020 (11:59 PM PDT). [ 3 ]
The mode was enabled again on October 10th, 2023 (public beta patch V13.21 ) with the same visuals and map as well as a reset of all champion balance modifiers. It ran from October 25th till November 27th, 2023.
Nexus Blitz's jungle (part 1)
Nexus Blitz's jungle (part 2)
The map in Nexus Blitz includes a jungle area where monsters spawn. Most jungle camps initially spawn at 1:05 and respawn 150 seconds after they are cleared.
Jungle camps taken with more than one champion grant 150% experience and gold split between the champions taking it (compared to 100% experience and gold if taken alone).
The jungle features Big and Small camps for monsters based on their size type.
Slaying a buff monster will grant its buff to the killer as well as leaves an additional buff behind for another champion to take.
Each team has a friendly Jungle Guardian that guards their upper part of the jungle, deterring invades. Players can kill the opposing Jungle Guardian , leaving the enemy's jungle unguarded until the unit respawns.
While enemies are on its side of the jungle quadrant, the guardian will seek them out. It gains a continuously stacking buff that grants it 0. 25 % bonus attack damage , 0. 25 % increased size , 0. 3 bonus attack range and 0. 8 % bonus movement speed per stack. This bonus is reset as soon as the enemy leaves their quadrant. Additionally, it periodically empowers its next attack to send a shockwave in the target's direction, dealing damage to and knocking back all enemies hit.
Jungle Guardians take increased damage from single target spells.
Neutral catapults are located in the upper and bottom areas of the map for both teams. They are accessible for any champion and can be interacted with to launch to a fixed location on the opposite side of the map.
Each catapult is found near the jungle guardians and bottom outer turrets, for a total of 4. The upper catapults launch units to a location near the Blue Sentinel camp, while the bottom ones launch them to a landing point that is between the Raptor and Red Brambleback camps.
There is a turret near the base gate of each team's base. This tower is untargetable and will attack any enemies in range.
Champions gain the On Fire! buff when they kill enemy champions 3 times in a row without dying, purchase The Golden Spatula , or are randomly chosen as the Juggernaut in the Bardle Royale: Juggernaut event.
This final event occurs at 18 minutes. Each team is recalled back to base as their Nexus will start walking towards the enemy's base. Catapult of Champions is granted to both teams, and death timers are set to 15 seconds. The game will automatically end when thirty minutes elapse.
Summoning the Rift Herald during this event will cause the monster to attempt to march down the lane as if the Nexus was still stationary.
Nexus Minion
The Nexus of both teams will transform into a golem that can move on its own. They will both path towards the middle of the map until they encounter each other, entering an intense battle.
For each enemy champion killed, and each chunk of health the enemy nexus loses, gains a charge. At five charges, does a massive slam attack, knocking back all nearby enemies while briefly turning them untargetable , stunning the enemy nexus, and gaining a massive shield . The charge now drains over time, and once it runs out, the shield disappears. Killing more enemy champions or damaging the enemy nexus extends the duration of the shield.
All minion (regardless of last hit) and monster kills share about 30% of the total gold value to every champion on the team. Last hitters (or nearby allies in the case of jungle camps) still get the full gold and experience value.
Gold from champion kills and assists is not globally shared.
Some game elements are modified in this game mode. This table extracts the data from Module:ChampionData/data and Template:map_changes/data/nb .
The Doom Bots of Doom mode
The Doom Bots of Doom , also known as Nightmare mode , is a Featured Game Mode for League of Legends . The first featured mode to utilize bots, this is Co-op vs. AI with a twist: each bot has mutated, granting them empowered abilities. On higher difficulties, Doom Bots will mutate further over the course of the game - picking up the abilities of other champions, alongside their own.
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Baron Nashor is a voidborn creature residing on Runeterra .
While not much is known about the Baron's origins, just like any other Voidborn , it takes on a similar shape to what it consumes. Baron Nashor has likely consumed a serpent akin to a Grellfeen or a Sea Serpent .
This one of a kind creature has a similar shape and behavior to a serpent like a Grellfeen or a Sea Serpent . What differentiates him from a regular serpent is his numerous arachnid appendages, as well as two additional mouths protruding from his upper neck. The creature has 12 eyes (some of them injured due to past battles), a mouth with sharp teeth that can gape open wide for larger prey, and horned like crests on the top of the head. The colors of the creatures exoskeleton go from dark purple to light teal.
This creature is well known to the cultures of Runeterra, so much so that it has its own constellation in the celestial realms. Legends say that the Baron itself ascended by sheer force of will, while others say that a celestial dragon created the constellation to one day target against Runeterra itself out of revenge.
The word Dragon is, within the Multiverse , an umbrella term that refers to all the beings with reptilian morphology that come from the draconic lineage. Creatures that fall under this term can be split between Celestial Dragons or Terrestrial Dragons by way of their origins.
The "sub-species" mentioned above are not genetically linked with each other, but share appearances. This similar appearance is because the Terrestrial Dragons once mimicked its Celestial counterpart. [ 1 ] Both "sub-species" take inspiration of Earth dragons from mythology, which are equally varied in appearance and cultural perceptions.
Non-playable Dragons are often depicted in Riot's games as formidable beings.
Dragons are part of Summoner's Rift ; they are called Drakes , and grant various bonuses to the slayer's team based on the type of Drake slain.
According to Dragon Trainer Heimerdinger , In Dragon World universe, draconic enzymes are highly flammable, and slobbery as well. He also considers resource guarding a common and a natural behavior of dragons.
NOTE: Some dragons listed here do not fall within the main Runeterra Prime universe. Every Dragon species that has an " * " next to their name comes from an alternate universe .
Some species are both fearsome and majestic, having a society that revolves around strength and might and because of their egoistic and narcissistic pride, mixing their blood with that of races outside of dragonkind are seen as an abomination, a cancer that must be eradicated utterly. Many dragons persecute such defiled creations and their perpetrators to no end, a thing that Shyvana , the Half-Dragon, found out firsthand.
Such immense and awe inspiring creatures have left their mark on other cultures and people of Runeterra ( Runeterra Prime universe).
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
Missing section(s):
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
Rift Herald is an unique creature of Voidborn shaped in the form of a Scuttle Crab that it consumed. It currently resides somewhere on Runeterra .
As a voidborn, it is made to adapt to its surroundings, consuming any life and adding its essence into its form. The Rift Herald at one point consumed a Scuttle Crab , taking some of the crabs physical features. It is unclear if there are more than one examples of a rift herald on Runeterra Prime , as such it should be considered as an endling sub-species of voidborn.
The Rift Herald takes on some of the Scuttle Crab's physical features such as the back shell, mandible face area, as well as an affinity to watery areas. Unlike a scuttle crab, it is bipedal, with sharp claws for arms and a long barbed tail. Its body emanates a purple glow common among voidborn.
The Rift Herald has no known relations with the Runeterra Prime universe.
The Voidgrub camp consists of a spawn group of 3 Voidgrubs . There can be two spawn groups at most in a given game. The camp despawns permanently at 13:45 , or 13:55 if in combat. A second group of Voidgrubs will only spawn if the first one was taken down before 9:45 . The Rift Herald spawns in the same position at 14:00 .
The takedown of the Voidgrub camp is announced to both teams when the entire spawn group has been slain. The kill feed includes the slayer of each individual Voidgrub , regardless of team. Only the first Voidgrub killed in each spawn group counts as an epic monster takedown for the slayer and/or the team . Bonus treat experience for Jungle item users ( Scorchclaw Pup / Gustwalker Hatchling / Mosstomper Seedling ) will only be awarded once per spawn group , assists included. Bel'Veth is special-cased to generate 2 stacks of Death in Lavender per individual Voidgrub killed, however.
Legend: Alacrity , Legend: Bloodline and Legend: Haste currently give an extra 25 stacks for the first Voidgrub (totalling to 125 stacks instead of 100 for an epic monster takedown) (bug) , although the second and third will give the appropriate 25 stacks for a large monster takedown.
The Blue Sentinel is a neutral monster on Summoner's Rift .
Killing the Blue Sentinel grants the Crest of Insight , a buff which grants increased mana regeneration (or energy regeneration ) as well as ability haste .
When the map transforms into the Elemental Rift , the Blue Sentinel becomes Draconic , gaining this form if alive and respawning in it each time. Killing it in this form leaves behind a buff wisp at the camp's location for 60 seconds. The wisp can be picked up by an allied champion moving near it, granting them the Crest of Insight buff. If the killer did not have Smite , the wisp can only be picked up by a champion that does so.
Once the Baron Nashor spawns at 20:00 , the Blue Sentinel becomes permanently corrupted by the Void if it is not Draconic , transforming into a Voidborn with 30% increased health. Killing it in this form grants you and all your allied champions, if alive, the Crest of Insight buff. Any remaining Draconic Blue Sentinels that are slain respawn as Voidborn instead.
The Red Brambleback is a neutral monster on Summoner's Rift .
Killing the Red Brambleback grants the Crest of Cinders , a buff which grants health regeneration out of combat and causes basic attacks to apply a slow and a burn that deals true damage over time.
When the map transforms into the Elemental Rift , the Red Brambleback becomes Draconic , gaining this form if alive and respawning in it each time. Killing it in this form leaves behind a buff wisp at the camp's location for 60 seconds. The wisp can be picked up by an allied champion moving near it, granting them the Crest of Cinders buff. If the killer did not have Smite , the wisp can only be picked up by a champion that does so.
Once the Baron Nashor spawns at 20:00 , the Red Brambleback becomes permanently corrupted by the Void if it is not Draconic , transforming into a Voidborn with 30% increased health. Killing it in this form grants you and all your allied champions, if alive, the Crest of Cinders buff. Any remaining Draconic Red Bramblebacks that are slain respawn as Voidborn instead.
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
The Rift Scuttler is a neutral monster on Summoner's Rift . There are two Rift Scuttlers on the map, one in the top half of the river and one in the bottom half of the river.
The Rift Scuttler is unique amongst all monsters for two reasons: she will not retaliate against an attacker, instead attempting to flee directly away from them; and two, she continually moves along a fixed path in the river on the part of the map where she spawns. This makes Rift Scuttler the only (1) non-hostile and (2) autonomously moving monster on the map.
Unlike other monsters, Rift Scuttlers spawn with one level below the average of all champions ' levels (capped at level 1). At initial spawn, Rift Scuttlers will spawn in the top and bottom river. Both must be defeated before the respawn timer activates. Once both initial Rift Scuttlers are defeated, only one Rift Scuttler can be on the map at any given time for the rest of the game. Respawn locations are randomly determined, but signaled ahead of time with a respawn marker.
After the Baron Nashor spawns at 20:00 , all Rift Scuttlers become permanently corrupted by the Void , transforming into Voidborn with 30% increased health. Defeating a Rift Scuttler in this form causes it to release an aura of void energy around itself over 1. 5 seconds, granting sight of the surrounding area as it travels and revealing enemies in its path. Enemy champions are revealed for 3 seconds, while non-champions are revealed for 12 seconds. The reveal duration refreshes if they remain in the area where the energy is still spreading. Revealed wards have their health reduced to 1. Once the energy has spread out completely, it continues to grant sight of the area for another 3 seconds.
When Rift Scuttler receives champion damage or is affected by an immobilize from any source, she will increase her base movement speed by 100 and attempt to run from the source for a period of time. Other sources of damage will not cause her to switch the source she is fleeing from. If she runs to the very end of the river, she will dash back down to the center and resume fleeing.
The first Rift Scuttlers spawned have 35% reduced health, 80% reduced experience and -13% size .
Rift Scuttler has several unique interactions with crowd control :
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
Turrets , also called towers , are heavy fortifications that attack enemy units on sight. Turrets are a core component of League of Legends . They deal damage to enemies and provide vision to their team, allowing them to have static and persistent control over the battlefield. Turrets target one unit at a time and deal heavy damage. Teams must destroy enemy turrets to push their assault into enemy territory.
There are 11 turrets per team on Summoner's Rift and 4 on Howling Abyss .
Turrets have a pseudo-inventory which consists of items that grant them additional effects, similarly to the inventories of champions. Each of these items provide the turret with mechanics that improve their overall offense and defense on the battlefield. The following section lists them with their passive effects:
Fortification VFX
Destroying a turret grants two gold rewards to the team that destroys it: a global reward and a local reward .
Turrets attack the first enemy unit that comes into their range and continue attacking that unit until it dies, leaves the attack range of the turret, or stops being targetable. When the current target is lost by any means, the turret selects a new target. If several targets are in range, the turret chooses its new target by following this priority list (they will attack the closest and most prioritized enemy):
However, if an enemy champion deals damage to an allied champion who is within 1400 range of a turret, the turret switches targets to attack the enemy champion. The damage can come from any source, including pets . Turrets don't attack enemy champions using non-damaging spells, like Karthus' Wall of Pain . They will still attack them if the spell or attack is blocked by a spell shield or if the attack triggers combat effects .
A turret can only be targeted and damaged if it is the outermost structure standing in its lane. Turrets located behind the outermost standing turrets are invulnerable and untargetable until the outermost one is destroyed. This means that inner turrets only become vulnerable when their respective outer turret is destroyed, and inhibitor turrets only become vulnerable when their respective inner turret is destroyed. Nexus turrets are only vulnerable if one or more of their inhibitors are destroyed.
Turrets fall apart as they take damage.
Crystals timer
Turrets are not valid targets to most abilities, spells and auras. Exceptions are listed in the lists below. Basic attacks don't apply health based damage modifiers or critical strikes, unless otherwise stated. Armor penetration and magic penetration are factored into the damage dealt to any structure. Some on-hit effects can apply to structures and/or turrets.
Unmodified basic attacks' damage against turrets is 100% base AD (+ 100% bonus AD) (+ 60% AP) . The damage type depends on ability power and bonus attack damage :
The Demolish rune helps to destroy turrets quickly. When a champion with the Demolish rune is within the range of a turret, 6 crystals appear around the turret's base. These crystals act as a countdown timer that indicates when the turret will be vulnerable to Demolish .
Last-hitting a turret does not grant bonuses to champions, unless they have a guaranteed effect for any unit regardless of their type:
League of Legends have had numerous different turrets during its history. Most were primarily used for Summoner's Rift while the remaining ones for ARAM, Twisted Treeline, and other game modes.
Blue inhibitor
Destroyed Blue inhibitor
Red inhibitor
Destroyed Red inhibitor
Inhibitors are structures that prevent super minions from spawning in the respective same lane. Inhibitors have 4000 health , 15 health regeneration per second, 20 armor , and 0 magic resistance .
Each team has 3 inhibitors on Summoner's Rift in each of their bases, of which at least one inhibitor must be destroyed to render the Nexus and its defending turrets vulnerable to being attacked (the Nexus will be invulnerable as long as one of its turrets or all 3 inhibitors are standing). Every inhibitor is protected by a turret that makes that inhibitor invulnerable; destroying the turret makes the inhibitor vulnerable.
Once a team's inhibitor is destroyed, the enemy's Nexus will begin spawning a super minion in the waves set in the respective lane, replacing the siege minion in its place if applicable. If all 3 of a team's inhibitors are destroyed, it will instead spawn two super minions in each lane, per wave.
Destroyed inhibitors respawn after 5 minutes, therefore stopping the opposing Nexus from spawning any more super minions .
When an inhibitor is destroyed, if a champion scored the last hit, they receive 50 . Other champions involved in the destruction do not receive any bounty.
League of Legends have had numerous different inhibitors during its history. Most were primarily used for Summoner's Rift while the remaining ones for ARAM, Twisted Treeline, and other game modes.
Context : At the beginning of the 2014 season we shortened the respawn time of inhibitors. Now, with our LASER-BUFFED BASE TURRETS (shouting is mandatory here), we can put inhibitor respawns back to their original timing so that attacking teams have a better window to capitalize on their achievements.
Context : Losing an inhibitor often puts a team behind for a long period of time with few opportunities for retaliation. This was because a downed inhibitor also granted a global buff to minions in all lanes. We want more comeback opportunities for teams who can capitalize on winning teamfights, even with a downed inhibitor.
The Nexus is a structure that serves as the primary objective in all game modes in League of Legends . The team that destroys the opposing team's Nexus wins the match. The Nexus has 5500 health and 20 health regeneration per second, and 0 for all other stats.
In Summoner's Rift , each team has a Nexus that is guarded by two turrets in front of it, and is responsible for spawning minions in each lane. They are located directly outside of each team's spawn . A Nexus is invulnerable so long as all three allied inhibitors or at least one of its guarding turrets are standing.
Blue Nexus and its guarding turrets
Red Nexus and its guarding turrets
In Howling Abyss , the only difference from Summoner's Rift is that the Nexus only spawns minions in a single lane (after 45 seconds of game time) and the base it resides in only consists of one inhibitor, which, if destroyed, renders it vulnerable to being attacked if neither of its guarding turrets are standing.
League of Legends have had numerous different nexai during its history. Most were primarily used for Summoner's Rift while the remaining ones for ARAM, Twisted Treeline, and other game modes.
Minions of League of Legends (by Riot Contracted Artist Marie Magny )
Minions are units that comprise the main force sent by the Nexus . They spawn periodically from their Nexus and advance along a lane towards the enemy Nexus, automatically engaging any enemy unit or structure they encounter. They are controlled by artificial intelligence and only use basic attacks .
A group of spawned minions is called a wave . The game's pace fundamentally depends on minion waves.
These graphics show the points at which minions spawn right beside each Nexus, and the route they follow after being spawned, for each available map:
Players can deliberately manage the state of the wave (wave management), influencing where minions meet in the lane and who gains more gold and experience. Proper wave control allows players to farm more safely, create pressure on turrets, set up ganks, or rotate to other objectives on the map, while poor wave management can lead to a loss of resources and positional advantage.
Minions on Summoner's Rift
Minions start spawning from each Nexus at 1:05 and keep spawning in waves every 30 seconds for the rest of the match. Each wave comprises several types of minions, which spawn in this order:
While minions have not acquired a target, they will strictly path linearly along a lane until they find a valid enemy unit. Upon finding one, they will move toward and attack it within their range. Minions respect unit collision as well as player-generated terrain .
The first wave 's minions have modified behaviour. Top and bottom lanes' minions are ghosted for 28 seconds, while middle lane minions are ghosted for 18 seconds. They will ignore enemy champions until a champion walks much closer to them or until meeting with the enemy wave. When the waves meet, minions will spread out their attacks on the three enemy melee minions regardless of distance. This special behavior exists so that, in every game, neither side gains a pushing advantage without champion interference since the first wave's melee minions are guaranteed to die at roughly the same time.
Nearby enemy minions will become aggressive toward, or " aggro ", an enemy champion within their own variable acquisition range and under certain conditions. When activated by enemy champion actions, this aggression is formally referred to as a Call for Help signal in-game and throughout the wiki, and it is indicated by an icon of three concentrated lines above a minion's health bar (this icon indicates all non-playable units' aggro, including monsters , turrets , pets , etc.).
Call for Help signals trigger when:
When minions find several enemy units, they choose their target using a priority system that follows this order:
Once a minion has chosen a target, it only switches to a new target if that new target has a higher priority. The minion cannot acquire a new target that has the same priority as their current target (and thus continues attacking its current target).
In general, valid targets must be within 500 units of the minion in order to be acquired.
Allied champions being attacked by an enemy champion may be within 1000 range of the minion instead.
Minions reevaluate their target in between each attack windup every few seconds. For instance, if an enemy champion is attacking an allied champion and stops doing so, minions will not stop targeting that champion for a short time afterwards.
When the minion loses sight of its target, the minion switches to a new target or keeps advancing if there are no targets left within sight.
The team with the higher average champion level gains the minion pushing buff. The buff increases the minion damage against enemy minions and reduces the damage they take from them.
Bonus damage = (5% + (5% × Turret advantage of the lane )) × Team level advantage
Damage reduction = 1 + ( Turret advantage of the lane × Team level advantage )
Since there are three turrets on each lane, the maximum possible benefits on Summoner's Rift are:
Bonus damage = (5% + (5% × 3)) × 3 = 60%
Damage reduction = 1 + (3 × 3) = 10
This buff starts to apply at 3:30. Already-spawned minions will also receive the buff and these values will update for all minions when the level and turret advantages change.
Minions in the team with higher average champion level receive a buff that reduces damage taken from enemy minions.
Damage reduction = Level advantage × Turret advantage
The following game elements have special interactions or effects against minions:
Creep Score , or CS , is the number of minions, monsters, and champion pets a champion has slain by dealing the killing blow to these units. Dealing this hit is known as last hitting and is considered one of the most important skills in League of Legends.
Every minion is worth 1 CS.
In the early- and mid-game, CS along with KDA can be used to measure a player's performance against their lane opponent.
In Summoner's Rift , an undistributed wave consists of three melee minions , three caster minions and possibly a siege minion .
Some game terms related to minions:
Labels use the Order (blue team) and Chaos (red team) faction names.
Jungle plants (or Living Jungle ) are in-game elements that spawn in the jungle and river on Summoner's Rift , which have a variety of effects when destroyed.
There are three types of plants: Blast Cone , Honeyfruit and Scryer's Bloom .
Plants have 1 health and can be attacked to trigger them instantly, upon which they die and trigger a special effect.
Plants spawn as inactive seeds and take 60 seconds to become usable. The spawn locations for the first wave of plants is predetermined, while subsequent plants can spawn in at least one other spot.
Red : Blast Cone Green : Honeyfruit Blue : Scryer's Bloom
All Elemental Rift types except for Hextech Rift and Mountainous Rift spawn additional jungle plants. The Honeyfruit on the Ocean Rift spawn 30 seconds after the rift's transformation and have a respawn timer of 2 minutes.
Jungle plants (or Living Jungle ) are in-game elements that spawn in the jungle and river on Summoner's Rift , which have a variety of effects when destroyed.
There are three types of plants: Blast Cone , Honeyfruit and Scryer's Bloom .
Plants have 1 health and can be attacked to trigger them instantly, upon which they die and trigger a special effect.
Plants spawn as inactive seeds and take 60 seconds to become usable. The spawn locations for the first wave of plants is predetermined, while subsequent plants can spawn in at least one other spot.
Red : Blast Cone Green : Honeyfruit Blue : Scryer's Bloom
All Elemental Rift types except for Hextech Rift and Mountainous Rift spawn additional jungle plants. The Honeyfruit on the Ocean Rift spawn 30 seconds after the rift's transformation and have a respawn timer of 2 minutes.
Rune terra (meaning magic earth ) is both an oblate spheroid planet [ 1 ] in the Physical Realm and its associated Spirit Realm . It is also the fictional world where most of the lore of the League of Legends intellectual property takes place. Runeterra is part of the larger Runeterra Prime universe. The currently known continents the planet comprises are Valoran , Shurima and the Camavoran Continent . It also boasts several large bodies of water, such as the currently known 18 Seas (like the Conqueror's Sea and the Guardian's Sea ), and 2 Oceans with several archipelagos and islands around them (like Ionia , the Serpent Isles , and the Shadow Isles ). The planet orbits around a G-type star while a natural satellite moon orbits around the planet. Runeterra's sun and moon also have mirrored equivalents in the spirit realm. [ 2 ]
Composed of both the material and spirit realms, Runeterra is all that separates the celestial powers of creation from the abyssal threat of all undoing. This is a magical world unlike any other--inhabited by peoples both fierce and wondrous.
These are some of the champions appearing on Runeterra that do not align with any of the more specific places on the planet. They typically hail from ruined civilizations, have abandoned their previous homeland, or are simply wandering travelers.
Centuries ago, magical artifacts called the 'World Runes ' were rediscovered. Over the following decades, knowledge of the Runes began to spread as more were unearthed. The world's brightest minds studied the ancient glyphs, attempting to determine the powers they possessed. Few could even begin to understand the importance of their origins , or the sheer power held within them. Some surmised that the Runes were integral to the creation of Runeterra itself. The first use of these mysterious artifacts proved catastrophic, as they reshaped the landscape of entire nations. Mistrust quickly grew as those who knew of the Runes imagined such “Makers' Might” being used as a weapon. Conflicts related to these magical artifacts began to occur, known as the Rune Wars .
Open warfare raged across Runeterra. The first horrors of the Rune Wars sparked fear and aggression among those who now realized the power at their command. Ryze and his master, Tyrus, had sought out to lock away every World Rune beyond the reach of man for the protection of Runeterra. Some complied with their pleas, others dismissed them due to their new found powers and influence. After an incident with Tyrus, Ryze later on continued his journey alone in gathering all Runic artifacts so as to prevent another Rune War from starting and possibly destroying the world.
Magic plays an important part in the history and formation of Runeterra, much like the meaning of the world's name. The origins of magic on Runeterra can be traced back to the creation of the world when the World Runes shaped the planet and gave it life.
There are several types of magic that exist in the universe, primary and combined magics (unofficial names). The Void has no magic at all since it is nothingness. [ 3 ] This information is not concrete canon and subject to change. [ 4 ]
Unlike Earth, Runeterra has a large number of sapient species. These sapient species can range from being able to use primitive tools to one's advantage to god-like feats like forging literal stars.
Some sentient species are monster-like and aggressive while others less aggressive or tame. While most sentient species are animals, there are instances of plant based sentient species.
Most known instances of non-sentient species are found with plants.
As rich and diverse as Runeterra is, not all species are well documented. From the Shuriman Jungles to the magic wilds of the Ionian Archipelago, known only by names or by visuals, these numerous species are an enigma.
There are many regions and settlements on Valoran, Shurima, Ionia, and Oceania. The current known locations represent the 1/6 [ 5 ] of the entire map of Runeterra, mostly comprising areas in the north-north-west sextant, the rest of Runeterra remains largely unknown. The known areas are:
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands
Marai Village
Oovi-Kat Island
Constellations
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun · Volrachnun
Targon Prime
Void Realm · Multiverse
Map indicating the locations of each of the significant nation's capitals.
Runeterra has vast number of nations and settlements each with their own form of governing structure.
Religions in Runeterra are largely varied in every nation but several have been known to gather the most of followers:
Runeterra also has a few cults:
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
A strong, lawful kingdom with a prestigious military history, Demacia's people have always valued the ideals of justice, honor, and duty most highly, and are fiercely proud of their cultural heritage. But in spite of these lofty principles, this largely self-sufficient nation has grown more insular and isolationist in recent centuries.
Now, Demacia is a kingdom in turmoil .
The capital, the Great City of Demacia , was founded as a refuge from sorcery after the nightmare of the Rune Wars , and built upon the riddle of petricite —a peculiar white stone that dampens magical energy. It is from here that the royal family has long seen to the defense of the outlying towns and villages, farmland, forests, and mountains rich with mineral resources.
However, following the sudden death of Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). , the other noble families have not yet approved the succession of his sole heir, young [ Jarvan ] , to the throne.
Those who dwell beyond the heavily guarded borders are increasingly viewed with suspicion, and many former allies have begun to look elsewhere for protection, in these uncertain times. Some dare to whisper that the golden age of Demacia has passed, and unless its people are willing to adapt to a changing world—something many believe they are simply incapable of doing—the kingdom's decline may be inevitable.
And all the petricite in the land will not protect Demacia from itself.
Demacia is a proud, lawful kingdom with a prestigious military history. Founded as a refuge from magic after the Rune Wars, some might suggest that the golden age of Demacia has passed, unless it proves able to adapt to a changing world. Self-sufficient and agrarian, its society is inherently defensive and insular, valuing justice, honor, and duty above all else.
The history of Demacia and its culture stems from the cataclysm of the Rune Wars. Where survivors who fled from the conflict had ventured into the west of Valoran with the hope of establishing safety away from the chaos. Some say it was while a cult of dark mages terrorized these displaced survivors, that they hid in an ancient and petrified forest where the sorcerers that chased suddenly found their magic was made ineffective by the strange woods. Deciding to take advantage of the unique power from this environment, these vagabonds set up a permanent residence.
Eventually, knowledge of this curious new realm reached other refugees, who came seeking asylum and solidarity from the magic that was ravaging the rest of Runeterra. Within a short time, the united settlers had built themselves a sizable community, allied under a new nation they would come to call Demacia.
Kayle and Morgana, the Winged Protectors of Demacia
Many refugees fled the horrors of the Rune Wars. One such refugeee were Kilam and his twin daughters Kayle and Morgana . Hailing from Mount Targon their father sought a safer life for his daughters, after their mother Mihira became the ascended host of the Aspect of Justice. Several years have past and the conclusion of the Rune Wars, one day the sisters have received their mother's Starfire Spellblade from the sky and with which they unlocked their celestial powers, becoming additional ascended hosts for the Aspects of Justice. Together, they vowed to protected their new home of Demacia.
Kayle and Morgana flew to aid the people of Zeffira. While Kayle was busy dealing with the frontline attack, Morgana learned of a hidden wave of enemies attacking the city and left the frontlines to aid the citizens. After the battle Kayle lost trust in her sister for leaving her on the battlefield.
Warriors flocked to Kayle's banner at Silvermere's Peak, where she founded a judicator order to enforce the law, and hunted down rebels and reavers with equal fervor. Kayle allowed Morgana to rehabilitate wrongdoers who appeared humble enough to admit their guilt.
Gradually Kayle's followers started to resent Morgana. Kayle's protege, Ronas, attempted to imprison Morgana for her actions when Kayle was busy outside of the city, which resulted in his death. His death lead to an outbreak of riot in a city.
When Kayle returned, she looked down upon the city, became enraged and summoned her divine fire to cleanse the city of sinners and bring Ronas killer to justice. Morgana flew up to meet her, raising her blade, saying that is she wants punish darkness in mortal hearts, she should start from her sister. The Battle raged on, ruining the city and killing numerous of its inhabitants, until it was abruptly halted by their father's anguished cry.
With the death of their father Kilam, both Kayle and Morgana left Demacia. Kayle isolated herself near the slopes of Mount Targon , seeking perfect celestial clarity. Morgana remained at the outlying wilds of Demacia where she rectifies wrongs she sees fit on an interpersonal level as the Veiled One.
"The Hour of Need"
Quick to discover their homeland was rich in natural resources, the development of infrastructure for new cities and farmlands grew exponentially. But with progress and wealth came adversaries to the fledgling kingdom, ensuring that Demacia was at constant odds with ambitious conquerors.
Yet there would be no fear of invaders capitalizing on magical warfare, and so Demacia's small but elite infantry would always have the advantage when threats took place in their homeland. But not every battle took place within the kingdom's protective boundaries, as the most cunning enemies would attempt to draw out Demacia's army where they would be far more susceptible to arcane attacks. Seeking out a means for more advanced protection, the leaders of Demacia enlisted Durand, the greatest artisan of the time, to sculpt a mobile instrument that could be useful in wars set abroad. Later unveiled to be a statue titan, shaped in the form of half man and half raptor- like the Silverwing's native to the highlands. Proven difficult to transfer in and out of Demacia but unquestionably effective once it was out on the battlefield, the Colossus has been used when necessary ever since.
More than a century ago, Noxus expansion brought the empire forces dangerously close to the lands protected by Demacia. On their nations' first and legendary clash, the King Jarvan I went at war with Noxus for the southern lands.
But Noxus wouldn't bow, the war hero Sion charged against the demacians, with the only true focus of killing their king. Jarvan's royal guardsmen believed they could halt his charge. They were wrong. He cut them down, one by one, until only he and the king remained. Battered and fatigued, Sion continued to fight the king. He battled Jarvan beyond the point of breaking and was finally bested... but not beaten. With his dying breath, he locked his fingers around the king's throat and broke the will of a nation. The Demacian King, Jarvan I, was dead.
When the Demacian Prince Jarvan IV received the honorary rank of general, he marched to the lands beyond the Argent Mountains, to bring stability to the almost lawless frontier created by Noxian presence. In response, the newly established Trifarian Legion was sent to the Gates of Mourning, an standing outpost close to the westernmost Noxian border.
After Diadoro from the Dauntless Vanguard held the Gates of Mourning for an entire day, they fell to the Trifarian Legion. When word came that the Gates of Mourning had fallen, Jarvan resolved to drive onward into Noxian territory, against the advice of his lieutenants. Inevitably, with the battalions spread so thin, Jarvan was encircled and defeated by Noxian warbands before he even reached Trevale.
Refusing to surrender, the prince and a handful of other survivors fled into the forests, only to be hounded for days by the Noxians. Eventually, pierced through his side by an arrow, Jarvan collapsed into the shade of a fallen tree, where he would be saved by a purple skinned woman .
The supposed death of the prince affected all of Demacia, Jarvan III was in grieve and Garen blamed himself for what happened, using all of his funds to aid the family of the fallen soldiers. He was recognized by the king himself for this demonstration of the demacians ideals.
Sylas, the Unshackled
Raised in one of Demacia's lesser quarters, Sylas of Dregbourne has come to symbolize the darker side of the Great City. As a boy, his ability to root out hidden sorcery caught the attention of the notorious mageseekers, who eventually imprisoned him for turning those same powers against them.
Over the years after apprehending numerous mages for the order, Sylas began to doubt Demacian ideals as he began to notice numerous mages amidst its population, some of which were highborn protected by their status.
Those doubts finally bloomed in one deadly, fateful event, when Sylas and his handlers encountered a mage living in hiding in the countryside. After discovering it was only a young girl, Sylas took pity on her. When he tried to shield the child from the mageseekers, he accidentally brushed against her skin. The girl's magic rushed through Sylas's body—but rather than killing him, it shot forth from his hands in raw, uncontrolled bursts. It was a talent he did not know he possessed, and it resulted in the deaths of three people, including his mageseeker mentor.
Knowing he would be called a murderer, Sylas went on the run, and quickly gained notoriety as one of the most dangerous mages in Demacia. Though he was still just a youth, when Sylas was eventually apprehended he was sentenced to life imprisonment. He languished in the darkest depths of the mageseeker compound, forced to wear heavy shackles of magic-dampening petricite.
After fifteen years, a young volunteer from the Illuminators named Luxanna stumbled into his cell. Over time the two forged an unusual and secretive bond: In exchange for Sylas' knowledge of the control of magic, Lux educated him about the world outside his cell, and brought him whatever books he desired, one of which was the Manuscript of Durand.
Sylas' escape
The artisan's work was the foundation of Demacia's defenses against malicious sorcery. But Sylas analyzed that Petricite was not recorded to actually suppress magic, but to absorb it—meaning that it was possible to expel the magic stored within his restraints. All he needed was a source of magic: a source like Lux. But she never visited Sylas again. Her family, the immensely powerful Crownguards, had learned of their contact, and were furious that Lux had defied the law to help this vile criminal. Without explanation, Sylas was to be swiftly executed.
On the scaffold, Lux pleaded for her friend's life, but her cries fell on deaf ears. As the headsman pushed past her to raise his sword, Sylas managed to touch against Lux with his chains. As he had predicted, her power surged into the petricite shackles, ready for him to unleash—and with that hijacked magic, Sylas blasted his way free, sparing only the terrified young Crownguard.
Sylas destroyed the Mageseeker prison, liberating all the mages and assembling an indignant mob to assault the monarchy. However, he and the seized Prince Jarvan discover the King had already been assassinated. Unbeknownst to anyone, Grand General Swain had dispatched Katarina to assassinate the king to weaken Demacia for future assimilation into the empire. Sylas prepared to execute the next in line, but Garen had assembled the Vanguard to battle the insurgency. Garen tried to stop Sylas from escaping the city, and nearly succeeded in ending the mage's life. At the last second, Sylas was secretly rescued by his former mentor: Mageseeker Killan. The criminal absconded through a tunnel out of the city and planned to grow his revolution to one day destroy the authority that had oppressed mages across the land.
Following the revolt, the Mageseekers began a crack down on the magical population within the Great City, arresting all mages and anyone harboring one. Lux had opposed this persecution, and could not remain idle when Garen suggested framing others to hide her magic. She gathered a family of mages and escorted them through the same sewers, but encountered her brother one last time. Respecting Lux's decision to leave, Garen allowed the mages to escape, and said goodbye to his sister.
Turmoil in Meltridge
Shortly after Sylas's escape, the Mageseekers began to systematically gather and imprison or exile all known Mages within Demacia.
Young and old, dangerous or benign, every person with even a trace of magical abilities were taken away from their homes and families. These drastic decisions lead to of numerous revolts across the Kingdom. The people demanded their loved ones to be returned to them.
One such similar instances happened in Meltridge. A diplomatic convoy from Arbormark was being escorted to the capital by the Demacian military and the Mageseekers. When they reached Meltridge, they were ambushed by the local villages demanding retribution for the capture of one of their beloved residents. Kyra was discovered to have had faint traces of magic within her at a very young age, but up until escape of Sylas she was not deemed any threat to the nation.
Despite a small fight erupting, further escalation of violence was averted by the quick actions of a soldier named Cithria who stopped the fighting and promised the parents of Kyra that she would do anything within her power to bring their daughter back to them.
Sylas' revenge
Sylas had begun to seek allies to start his revolution. He met a spellcrafter named Leilani that lead a group of rebel mages in Zeffira, and agreed to teach them to fight; in exchange they would help him kill Eldred Crownguard, leader of the Mageseekers. Sylas and his rebels waged guerilla warfare against the Mageseekers, raiding their outposts to steal supplies and recruit their prisoners.
During one such raid, they found a feather of the Veiled Lady . Intrigued by its power, Sylas sought her out and found her within the Sacred Woods. While Morgana agreed that the Mageseekers were a threat, she withheld assistance due to her disdain for Sylas' vengeance.
Sylas would lead his rebels to assault the Great City, battling their way through Demacia until Sylas reached Eldred's office and slayed the leader himself. Jarvan and Shyvana would battle him shortly after, but Sylas had to make a choice between helping his allies and killing the King. Remembering his promises to Leilani, Sylas retreated from the wounded duo to help his squad survive the fight. Wisteria's forces arrive, and she cast a wave that stuns all but Leilani, then charged up a lethal blast of energy. Running out of options, Leilani casted a powerful reflection spell at the cost of her own life, which buys them the chance to escape.
Reeling from Leilani's death, Sylas finally understood what Morgana meant about vengeance, and she would summon him back to give him a weapon that could defeat the Mageseekers. She showed him a vision of Demacia's founding: how mages and non-mages alike worked hand in hand to create their nation. But people like the mageseekers distorted the truth and turned the people moreso against magic than evil.
Armed with this revelation, Sylas and his rebels would focus on saving mages instead of taking revenge on the Mageseekers. In the wake of Eldred's death, Commander Wisteria took over the Mageseekers and pressured King Jarvan IV to warrant the execution mages, which forces Shyvana to leave Jarvan in fear of persecution. Sylas interrupted one of these executions and showed the people Morgana's vision, turning public opinion against the persecution of mages.
Growing desperate, Wisteria lead the Mageseekers to exterminate a camp of mages in Terbisia, lead by Lux. Sylas and his rebels arrive to her defense, alongside Garen and Shyvana. Sylas eventually came face to face with Wisteria and battled his old friend, emerging victorious. In the aftermath of the battle, King Jarvan IV reconsidered his actions, and would follow through with his late father's wishes to disband the Mageseekers.
The Kingdom of Demacia (commonly referred to as Demacia) is a nation located in the Western part of Valoran , sharing its borders with Freljord and is close to bordering with Noxus . The currently well known locations encompassing Demacia are:
The largest city in the Kingdom. The capital, located in the western part of Demacia, is the main political, cultural, religious, military, economic and educational center of the country. Demacia sees itself as a shining beacon of hope for humanity, and as such, the nation and its Capital are the visual representations of this concept. Towering spires punctuate its skyline; Petricite (a pale, magic-resistant stone) and marble are the materials of choice.The noble houses that reside within the city include Buvelle , Crownguard and Laurent . The Royal Palace of House Lightshield is from which the king of Demacia reigns. The city also has a barracks and a penitentiary, like most cities throughout the kingdom. The Capital itself sits next to a harbor overlooking the Conqueror's Sea , with the majority of the surrounding towns resting on a plateau.
Other known locations in north Demacia are: Rocky Highlands , Bloody Wall, etc.
Galio, the Colossus
Other known locations in east Demacia are: East Wall, Brashmore Fields, Wardens Wall, etc.
Other known locations in south Demacia are: Andras, South Wall, etc.
Other known locations in west Demacia are: Whiterock, etc.
The land and coastal territories have an assortment of astounding creatures, like the massive Tuskvore. There are also more mundane animals like bats, ravens, seagulls, and wolves.
Azurite Eagles are an avian predatory species that live in the northern parts of Demacia. Their name comes from their blue to almost azure like feathers. Very rarely seen, these birds hunt small animals, but are also able to attack larger ones such as horses and tuskvores, even sometimes unexpecting attacking humans. They are some examples of domesticated azurite eagles, such as Valor of Quinn .
Badgerbears are large mammalian omnivores that live in the forests of Demacia. Their name stems from their mixed appearance. Their fur color resembles that of a badger, while their body shape and size give them a bears stature. Some Demacian ranger beastmasters have domesticated badgerbears, which work well as loyal companions during hunts and scouting missions.
Bellswayer is a proud, celestial creature native to the Argent Mountains, the Bellswayer's beautiful chiming bells inspire and compel other sprites to attend them. Though they startle easily, bellswayers are just as quick to resume a composed and regal posture.
Giant boar-like creatures. Crag Beasts are often sighted in the countryside where they frequently attack Demacian settlements. They're adorn large tusks and sharp fangs. Their outer shell is protected by a thick layer of rocky-like skin which protects them from swords, spears and other weapons. The only place where their skin isn't as thick is at their belly region. Their soft skin, inner organs, and blood are of a blue-ish colour. Their size ranges from a house to a large tower. Poppy , Keeper of the Hammer of Orlon, once saved an entire settlement from one of these beasts.
Demacia is home to its own variety of citrus fruit , similar to a real-world tangor , a sour-sweet hybrid of tangerines and oranges . It's unknown if this is the origin of these fruit in the Runeterra Prime universe. The fruit are described unfavourably by Gangplank's Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Fleetfeathers are an avian predator who is a close relative to the silverwing raptors, though share an eagle appearance with Azurites. There are way smaller size compared to their cousins. However, these birds still retain an aggressive predatory instinct, attacking horses and humans that get close to their surroundings. Fleetfeather trackers are often used by the Demacian military to hunt down enemy scouts or fleeing bandits.
Greathorns are large mammalian herbivores that live in the forests of Demacia. They are similar to Stags in their appearance. Some Demacian soldiers use them as a substitute for horses.
Petricite Trees are fossilized-like trees that were magically altered by World Runes. They have magic-dampening abilities as well as the ability to absorb magic. Several stories high, these white trees and their yellow leaves are as hard as stone. The early settlers of Demacia discovered a petrified forest that can dispel magic, and mixed this wood with ash and lime into the resistant material that is called Petricite . From this innovation, the walls of Demacia were established. The material used by Demacians in defensive walls, military, and public security. It is also used in Demacian architecture due to its white and elegant appearance. However, they are a limited resources as the trees have stopped growing at the moment. The name of these trees was likely just derived from "petrification", which literally means something organic turned into stone, or becoming stone-like, and the suffix -cite comes from Greek [ 2 ]
A particularly Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). using Dauntless Vanguard gear.
Poros are an are the mysterious, magical, and most-loved creatures originating from the Howling Abyss . Poros are equal parts truth, valor, and innocence. The colour of their fur is described as “very light blue, like Freljordian snow”. They have a heart-shaped underbelly because they're made of love. A poro's horns perk up when it's excited and droop down when it's scared. Poros paddle through deep snow with their front paws. Some believe that poros are indestructible. Poros stick their tongue out because they are incredibly warm. This is why they can survive the harsh cold environment of the Howling Abyss . Poro-Snax are frosted with Freljordian ice crystals and are a favourite treat of this creature. The leader of the Poros is known as the Poro King .
There is at least one Poro found in Demacia.
Griffin-like creatures native to the high crags of northern Demacia, raptors are rare and voracious predators known to attack lone farmers, and occasionally even armed convoys of soldiers Nevertheless, particularly exceptional individuals have made an art of building rapport with these noble beasts, forging such a bond that the raptor may permit itself to be ridden. These riders serve in the Demacian military, scouting ahead or harassing the enemy advance. The young raptors egg hatchlings have yellow and light blue feathers, growing into their signature silvery hue with maturity .
Predatory killers from the Demacian hinterlands known for their thick hide, the long razor-horns that crown their head, and a ferocious temperament. Quinn's brother Caleb was gored to death by one of these. A year later, she herself nearly met the same fate before being saved by Valor .
Wyverns are members of the dragon family that are often mistaken for their cousins due to their similar appearances. The distinguishing features of a wyvern is that it only has two legs and one pair of wings as opposed to the four-legged dragons. They are often spotted attacking the Demacian countryside and are a frequent threat to villagers.
The Arbormark have long been allies of Demacia. As a small nation between Demacia and Freljord, they have been instrumental in protecting the kingdoms borders. While the nation does have high-ranking officials with magical abilities, they are well protected and guarded during their stay in the Kingdom so long as the abide by the Laws of Stone.
Over the centuries, Demacia has received many attacks from Freljordians, those attacks have been growing on number and strength recently as two new leaders rise to power. The Avarosan tribes led by Ashe were able to form alliances with the rich sourthen tribes though promises of conquest, one of the earliest of those promises led to an attack at Dawnhold that was held back by Varya of the Dauntless Vanguard , her twin brother also from the Vanguard, Rodian would answer the attack setting the Avarosan capital, Frostheld , ablaze. Meanwhile, the Winter's Claw led by Sejuani are united by warlike tradition and constantly raid the borderlands for survival. They have recently made an alliance with Sylas who has promised to help them raid the rich land of the kingdom. The tension between the two regions isn't likely to diminish anytime soon.
Noxian hostilities towards Demacia, and vice versa, run deep. Having fought at least two wars with each other, the two nations are political, military and ideological rivals and see each other as a threat. The death of King Jarvan Lightshield I at the hands of Sion , a General of Noxus, is celebrated as a national event in Noxus. Tensions between the two nations have not changed and will likely not change until one of the two factions gives up.
Demacia has long protected neighboring city-states and nations from onslaught of invading armies such as Noxus . In compensation they are used as buffer states between larger nations and Demacia. Some Demacian traveling actors frequently visit perform in Palclyff .
Demacia isolationist politics put them as one of the few major nations that don't allow official trade with Piltover, however on hidden black markets citizens from the two nations still trade with each other. The nations remain as allies but as political rivals.
Demacian military has fought countless battles against the undead hoards of the Shadow Isles in order to protect its citizens. There were several military expeditions to the Isles, all of which ended in disaster as countless soldiers lost their lives very quickly after landing at shore.
Demacia has had a long reverence for Mount Targon itself. It is unknown to what extent is the relationships between Demacia and the Mount Targon tribes, only that Demacia has a ceremony known as the "Crown of Stone" that demands a dishonored soldier to ascend Mount Targon. One of the only known soldiers that survived this ceremony to become an Ascended is Taric . Both Kayle and Morgana are two Ascended who hail from Mount Targon but have made historical and cultural mark upon the nation since its inception.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Noxus is a powerful empire with a fearsome reputation. To those beyond its borders, Noxus is brutal, expansionist, and threatening. Its people were once a fierce reaver culture until they stormed the ancient city that now lies at the heart of their empire. Under threat from all sides, they aggressively took the fight to their enemies, pushing their borders outward with every passing year. This struggle for survival has made the Noxians a deeply proud people who value strength above all, though that strength can manifest by many different means.
The Immortal Bastion
After the Great Darkin War left the world in ruin many centuries ago, a coven of sorcerers was formed, united by the whispers of a long dead soul that promised giving his strength to any who brought him back. He spurred them to make him stronger than any mortal, binding his spirit-form in dark metal plates wrought in the likeness of his old armor.
These power-hungry sorcerers had hoped to use him as a weapon in their wars. Instead, the reborn spirit slew them where they stood, their weapons and magic useless against him.
From the fearful, dissipating souls of the sorcerers, Mordekaiser forged his brutal mace, Nightfall and seized control of the army they had raised. Mordekaiser and his armies swept across the lands, crushing and enslaving any who would oppose his rule. To his foes, it seemed he cared only for massacre and destruction. Entire generations perished under his relentless campaigns.
He raised the Immortal Bastion at the center of his empire, in the Noxii territories in which his first campaigns had taken place, secretly that place was the source of his power and held countless arcane secrets gathered for centuries as Mordekaiser hungered for all the forbidden knowledge of spirits and death, and a true understanding of the realms beyond. To help him in his goals, the tyrant created the Black Rose, his inner circle of mages which were some of the few who came to know the secrets he had gathered.
Such tyranny could only bring him enemies. The Iron Revenant was defeated, surprisingly, by an alliance of the Noxii tribes, and betrayal from within his own inner circle, now lead by LeBlanc who allied herself with Vladimir . The Black Rose neutralized the source of his power, the Immortal Bastion, and managed to sever the anchors of his soul from his armor, sealing the empty iron shell away in a secret place.
And so, Mordekaiser was cast out of the material realm. However, unbeknownst to anyone, he had planned for this—indeed, it was a pivotal part of his design. For now he had all the power and knowledge to build a kingdom beyond death and life - and eventually return.
Over a century past, the brutal warlord Sion rose to prominence as he won many vicious triumphs for Noxus. He was the last of a proud warrior culture that had been part of Noxus since its founding and swore to his ancestors to die a proud warrior's death.
The empire's might was at a peak not seen for hundreds of years and so it took the generals of high command by surprise when Demacia first resisted their western invasions, then began pushing back their steady advance. These Demacians drove the Noxian warbands eastward, harrying them back behind the walls of Hvardis. Sion, who had been campaigning in the Argent Mountains, turned south.
He arrived at the city to find the Demacians on the horizon preparing to return home. Sion readied his troops, but the Noxian commander at Hvardis, had already suffered several defeats to the enemy, and was content to let them return home. Outraged, Sion hurled the commander from the city walls, and ordered the attack.
But while Sion warband charged with him, the ones who had been cowering in Hvardis retreated back to the city, leaving Sion and his trusted few surrounded.
One by one, they fell, but Sion reached to Jarvan and fought brutally. With a final burst of strength, Sion clamped one hand around the King's throat, being stabbed by Jarvan's guards again and again, but only when the enemy king was slain did Sion allow death to claim him.
His body was recovered—along with the Demacian king's crown—and borne back to the Immortal Bastion in honor. Noxus mourned Sion's passing, and his corpse was interred within a towering monument constructed to honor him for all time.
The lands beyond the Argent Mountains would since be contested by Noxus, creating an almost lawless frontier full of foreign reavers and warring tribes, which would lead to a greater action of Demacia defending their allies and the establishment of a rivalry between them and Noxus that would last for centuries.
Noxian Ionian Invasion Map
Mural of the Noxian Invasion of Ionia
From its formation, the residents of Ionia preferred to pursue personal enlightenment instead of waging constant battles with other nations. The militaristic nation of Noxus saw their "weakness" as an opportunity. Noxian spies began to trade aggressively with the Ionians, traveling through provinces to study its weaknesses and identify critical targets.
Not long after, the warhosts set sail for Ionia as part of the long-planned Noxian invasion.
The invasion began in Navori, the central province of Ionia. Many villages and settlements fell, and thousands of Ionians died as their magical artifacts were stolen to extend the life of their mad emperor.
This aggression forced the religious leader Karma , known for her peaceful teachings, to fight back. Across Navori, dissenting voices began to band together. A resistance was forming, one that would not rest until Ionia was free once more.
At one of the most important points of the war, a warhost led by Jericho Swain captured the Placidium and took its defenders hostage, hoping to lure the inevitable reinforcements into a trap, but a 14-year-old girl named Irelia unleashed the power of ancient Ionian dances, and through it, the power of Ionia itself upon the Noxians. A dozen of Swain's veterans fell, sowing chaos in their ranks as the other captives joined her, before Irelia struck down the general himself. The sight of this rebellious girl hefting his severed arm over her head would be the turning point of the war.
The growing resistance was led by Irelia for almost 3 years of war, but as Ionia united in resistance, Noxus doubled their war efforts--children were sent in as foot soldiers, trying to exploit Ionian mercy, and Chemtech bombs bought from an infamous Zaunite alchemist bombarded both Ionians and Noxians.
Those Chem bombs had gruesome effects on the lands. Perhaps the place where those consequences are most notable is the Wuju village, where rumors of an one-man army caught Noxian attention. In a single night, the entire village was destroyed, its people and culture obliterated by chemical fire. Even now, years after the end of the war, nothing can grow on this land and the souls of those who died on that horrible night lay trapped by the corrupted magics of their own land.
The war was ended when Swain , with the might of a raven demon and many allies, (including Draven ) killed Darkwill and established the Trifarix. He pulled back the warhosts from Darkwill's unwinnable campaigns, ending the war with Ionia. However, Noxian presence remains, as many Ionian regions are still under Noxian rule.
Noxian troops tried to capture Bard Mountain and obtain a valuable magical artifact kept by the locals. During the battle, the village sage was tasked to take the artifact to one of the Celestial shrines on the top of the mountain. The Noxians mortally wounded him with arrows before he could reach the shrine. But as his last act of defiance, he used the artifact to strike his would-be-killer, obliterating him and slicing a nearby peak in half. This misuse of the artifact's power had drawn the attention of a celestial being , who promptly intervened in the event. He retrieved the artifact and took it away from the mortal plane before the Noxians and Ionians could use its power for war.
Darius returning to Noxus from the Freljord
After a grinding victory against the cloud-fortresses of the Varju, a proud warrior people who had resisted decades of Noxian aggression, Darius was named the Hand of Noxus by Emperor Boram Darkwill himself. Those who knew Darius best knew he craved neither power nor adulation—he wished merely to see Noxus triumph over all—so Darkwill ordered him and his warhosts far north into the Freljord, to finally bring the barbarian tribes to heel.
The campaign dragged on for years, ending in a bitter, icy stalemate. Darius narrowly survived assassination attempts, ambushes, and even capture by the vicious Winter's Claw. He was growing weary of endless wars of attrition, and returned to Noxus to demand a reconsolidation of the military.
He marched his veterans into the capital, only to find that Noxus itself was fighting an internal war.
Swain overlooking the Immortal Bastion
After Swain's discharge following the Battle of the Placidium, he came to know the Black Rose was still operating and puppeting the actions of Darkwill, betraying him to death in the battlefields of Ionia. After many years of preparation and the reunion of many allies, such as Draven and General Du Couteau, Swain managed to kill the Emperor of Noxus in a single night, with the newfound power of an ancient demon lying within the Immortal Bastion.
Reaching the capital, Darius found himself in a difficult position. As Hand, many of the noble houses would expect Darius to avenge Darkwill, but he had known and greatly respected the disgraced general Swain, and had spoken against his discharge after the botched offensive in Ionia three years earlier. The oaths of the Hand were to Noxus, not any particular ruler, and Swain was a man who spoke honestly of his new vision for the empire. Darius realized this was a leader he was prepared to follow... but Swain had other ideas.
With the establishment of the Trifarix, three individuals would rule Noxus together, each embodying one principle of strength: Vision , Might , and Guile (known as Faceless, true identity unknown). Darius gladly accepted his place on this council, and pledged to raise a new, elite force—the Trifarian Legion , the most loyal and prestigious warriors the empire could produce—and lead the armies of Noxus into a glorious new age of conquest.
While Darkwill's wars raged on, the Black Rose's influence reached out to Shurima though Soreana Du Couteau and her daughter Cassiopeia , but their efforts were made more urgent when word reached Urzeris of Jericho Swain's coup, carried out with the help of General Du Couteau.
Outraged by her husband's betrayal, and fearing for the Black Rose, Soreana dispatched Cassiopeia to seek out their ultimate goal in Shurima: the godlike power that had been the key to the Shuriman empire's supremacy.
Upon unearthing the Tomb of the Emperors, Cassiopeia knew this was the threshold to the power she sought, and intended to kill all witnesses from her expedition before claiming it. The guide Sivir was the first to fall to Cassiopeia's blade, but then an ancient stone tomb guardian reared up, and buried its fangs into her flesh.
Overcome by its arcane toxins, she was carried back through the desert by her hired soldiers, screaming as her body twisted into something new and unspeakable...
Upon her return from the desert, Cassiopeia had hidden in her family's crypt, fearful of her cursed transformation. She remained alone in the vault for weeks, filled with disgust for her serpentine body and mourning the loss of her aristocratic life. Eventually, a growing desire to hunt overwhelmed her, and she ventured out into the night as the household slumbered to kill those who deserved death in her eyes.
Cassiopeia knew she had unearthed the magic of dead Shuriman gods and she would turn it to the schemes of the Black Rose just as she and her mother had planned.
When the Demacian Prince Jarvan IV received the honorary rank of general, he marched to the lands beyond the Argent Mountains, to bring stability to the almost lawless frontier created by Noxian presence. In response, the newly established Trifarian Legion was sent to the Gates of Mourning, a standing outpost close to the westernmost Noxian border.
After Diadoro from the Dauntless Vanguard held the Gates of Mourning for an entire day, they fell to the Trifarian Legion. General Granth would later be honored as a hero of this battle, even though he knew the Gates fell to the Legion and the honorifics given by Swain were an insult, one that would bloom in his heart as a pale woman reached out to him.
When word came that the Gates of Mourning had fallen, Jarvan resolved to drive onward into Noxian territory, against the advice of his lieutenants. Inevitably, with the battalions spread so thin, Jarvan was encircled and defeated by Noxian warbands before he even reached Trevale.
Refusing to surrender, the prince and a handful of other survivors fled into the forests, only to be hounded for days by the Noxians. Eventually, pierced through his side by an arrow, Jarvan collapsed into the shade of a fallen tree, where he would be saved by a purple skinned woman .
Two Noxian Warmasons (warrior spies), Tamara and Colette, infiltrated Piltover for many months in hopes of placing an agent inside Clan Medarda. They used the annual Progress Day to showcase their technical skills to the clan's masters and apprenta.
Tamara Lautari showcased her Hex-Armillary Amplifier invention. It worked by harnessing the properties of a crystal and exponentially increasing its output. However, the invention itself proved to be dangerous as it almost destroyed the entire hall due to its faulty construction - which was intended to sabotage the proceedings.
Later on, after leaving the Medarda mansion, Tamara was apprehended by Caitlyn , who had discovered her true identity and purpose in the city. She was subsequently banished and sent back to Noxus.
Both Tamara and Gysbert failed to become Medarda apprenta, but Colette succeeded. Some time after, Colette would obtain a Medarda trading map, which she would relay to Noxian intelligence.
The jungles of Shurima are a frontier that the most ambitious generals would dearly love to claim for Noxus. Having petitioned Noxian high command no fewer than seven times, fleet officer Tomyri is finally summoned to the capital to receive a commission of her own. Tomyri oversees her vessel's final preparations, before learning that the expedition is to be joined by the renowned Reckoning beast hunter, Niander Ordylon. After many days at sea, the Ardentius enters the Serpentine Delta. This is Tomyri's first real glimpse of the wilderness that awaits her, and her crew. The jungle does not treat foreign invaders kindly. Unable to find their bearings, or any quarry for the beast hunters, the Noxians' morale and discipline begins to falter.
Blood of Noxus
The war veteran Quilletta Varn , steward of Baslich at the time, rebelled against Noxus, forcing the Might of Noxus (Quilletta's childhood friend and ex-lover) himself to come to the city, together with Draven and the Warmason Tamara. Against Tamara's advice Draven leads a force against the city, which is held back by archers and a gunpowder bomb.
After the defeat Darius goes to Blackrock Mere, a lake full that reminded him of his time with Quilletta, he did so knowing an assassin would be ready to kill him, and so brought Draven hidden with him.
Going back to Basilich with the assassin's head, Darius and Draven faced Quilletta and her second-in-command Invetia Varn. It is revealed that Decius, Quilletta's son, died in the campaign against Freljord by Darius's call to arms. A discussion about how Noxus must conquer and no city can rebel without paying the price arises.
Suddenly ships from Vindor are seen in the distance, Quilletta affirms that Steward Amenesce stands at her side and is bringing his warriors to help her, but due to Trifarian Legions forces on Vindor, Amenesce betrayed Quilletta and was actually coming to help Darius. Running out of options, Quilletta tries to tell Darius that Decius was not only her son, but also Darius'. Invetia Varn, her own daughter (and hinted to also be Darius' by Swain's interaction), kills her before she finishes, becoming steward of Basilich and ending the rebellion.
The Empire of Noxus (commonly referred to as Noxus) is a massive expansionist culture, constantly moving its borders further outward and currently sits as the biggest empire in Runeterra. But the capital is located on the eastern territory of Valoran , sharing its borders with Freljord , Shurima , and several city-states such as Piltover and Zaun . It also is close to bordering with Demacia . The currently well-known locations within Noxus are:
Situated in the heartlands of what would later become the Noxian empire, the Immortal Bastion was built by a dreaded sorcerer in a far distant age. Yet eventually besieged and conquered by a confederation of barbarian tribes who would make the stronghold their new capital. Within the stronghold's walls, the streets and alleyways are narrow and twisting, designed to stifle and frustrate any attacking force that managed to penetrate the fortress outer defenses. The rooftops are flat and crenelated, like the battlements of a castle, allowing soldiers above to dominate any enemy below. While nowhere near as pristine in appearance as the Great City of Demacia, the city is the visual representation of the empire's austere nature. Many noble houses are located in the capital, such as House Du Couteau. The city is also the headquarters of the enigmatic Black Rose cabal.
Other known locations in north Noxus are: Northern Steppes, Rugg, The Iron Pinnacle, etc.
Other known locations in east Noxus are: Bucket Creek, Khworez , The Immortal Bastion , etc.
Other known locations in south Noxus are: Blackrock Mere, Fenrath , etc.
Syndra inside The Dreaming Pool
Noxian Presence in Bel'Zhun
Thanks to Gangplank's marauding against Noxian warfleets, Bilgewater and Noxus are on shaky terms with one another. At some point, Gangplank managed to steal the Leviathan , Swain's personal warship, earning the personal enmity of Noxus's Grand General. After Gangplank's fall from power, it is unknown if relations between Bilgewater and Noxus have improved. Bilgerat pirates on occasion will assist the Noxian military, should they see the endeavor profitable.
Noxian hostilities towards Demacia, and vice versa, run deep. Having fought at least two wars with each other, the two nations are political, military and ideological rivals and see each other as a threat. The death of King Jarvan I Lightshield at the hands of Sion , a General of Noxus, is celebrated as a national event in Noxus. Tensions between the two nations have not changed and will likely not change until one of the two factions gives up.
Noxus has been pushing into the Freljord for decades, while the Winter's Claw in particular are always raiding south. [ 5 ] When the Hand of Noxus and his warhosts marched into the Freljord during Darkwill's empire, they found themselves in a war of attrition against a Winter's Claw under Sejuani's leadership. This war eventually ended with a Noxian retreat, but new Noxian advances can be seen recently on the battlefields of this war. Some of the Avarosan tribes are also known to have fought Noxian advance.
The Great Stand of The Placidium
Over a decade ago, Boram Darkwill set his sights upon the peaceful archipelago of Ionia. Rumors spread of abundant magic flowing from the land, convincing many Noxians to indulge in the conquest, seeking riches beyond their wildest dreams. But Darkwill desired immortality above all, tasking legions to search for anything relevant wherever it could possibly be obtained and annihilating those who stood in their way. In short time the presence of Noxians would increase and turn violent, eventually becoming a full-scale war.
Over the course of the invasion things became an uphill battle, the likes of which Noxians had never experienced. As the Ionians fought in defiance, so did the land itself. Exhausted and nearly defeated, the war would eventually end with Swain's ascension to power and most Noxian armies were withdrawn from Ionia. Noxus still occupies a small amount of territory in Ionia, and intends to defend the little it has.
As indicated by the Clan Medarda map, No citizen of Noxus is permitted to set foot on the shores of Palclyff and no exceptions are made. This is due to Noxus invading and annexing neighboring city-states and nations.
As the most expansive nation on Runeterra, Noxus heavily relies on the crucial port of Piltover to connect its land in Valoran and its territory in northern Shurima. Due to the neutral city's strategic location, many Noxian shadow agents have infiltrated all levels of Piltover's society in order to prepare the empire for a possible future invasion. Noxus can easily muster the required force, but this may not be a wise strategy. Due to the city's value as a trading hub for many other territories, invasion may cause more opposition that would outweigh the benefits. Noxus remains compliant as a trading partner—however, Piltover is aware of the prospect of invasion, so weapons are sold in expensive prices.
Noxus now controls land routes that can bypass Piltover entirely - but less efficiently. They have a significant presence in the sea between Valoran and Shurima... so they no longer rely on Piltover as much. [ 6 ]
Due to the absence of any centralized government or authority on the continent, Shurima has been disorganized for centuries. Because of this, a number of previously independent ports and cities in northern Shurima have voluntarily assimilated into Noxus. The original inhabitants of these settlements live in relative peace, seeing trade taxes to Noxus as a price worth paying for military protection from raiders.
Shurima quickly became a favorite location for Noxian plunderers and poachers, as the untamed deserts represent yet another land of opportunity. People like Cassiopeia would risk everything to seek out wealth and power in this unforgiving land. Noxians usually hire local guides and mercenaries such as Sivir for their grave plunders.
Azir , the last Emperor of Shurima, has now resurrected the ancient capital and made it his mission to rebuild the old desert empire as well. Time will only tell as to what political relations Shurima and Noxus will have in this new landscape.
Despite their plans to invade Piltover, Noxus has a friendly relationship with the undercity of Zaun. Mercenaries from Zaun were recruited by Noxus during the invasion of Ionia, the most terrifying being Singed and his biological weaponry. The brand of mass death and destruction the madman unleashed remains a festering scar on Ionian history.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Ionia , in original Vastayan nomenclature: The First Lands , is a land of unspoiled beauty and natural magic. Its inhabitants, living in scattered settlements across this massive archipelago, are a spiritual people who seek to live in harmony and balance with the world. There are many orders and sects across Ionia, each following their own (often conflicting) paths and ideals. Self-sufficient and isolationist, Ionia has remained largely neutral in the wars that have ravaged Valoran over the centuries - until it was invaded by Noxus . This brutal conflict and occupation has forced Ionia to reassess its place in the world. How it reacts and the future path Ionia will follow is as of yet undetermined, however, animosity against Noxus has led to militarization and vigilantism. Thirst for the dark arts is on the rise.
Surrounded by treacherous seas, Ionia is composed of a number of allied provinces scattered across a massive archipelago, known to many as the First Lands. Since Ionian culture has long been shaped by the pursuit of balance in all things, the border between the material and spirit realms tends to be more permeable here, especially in the wild forests and mountains.
Although these lands' enchantments can be fickle, its creatures dangerous and fae, for many centuries most Ionians led lives of plenty. The warrior monasteries, provincial militias—and even Ionia itself—had been enough to protect them.
But that ended twelve years ago, when Noxus attacked the First Lands. The empire's seemingly endless warhosts savaged Ionia, and were only defeated after many years, and at great cost.
Now, Ionia exists in an uneasy peace. Different reactions to the war have divided the region—some groups, such as the Shojin monks or the Kinkou , seek a return to isolationist pacifism, and pastoral traditions. Other more radical factions, such as the Navori Brotherhood and the Order of Shadow , demand a militarization of the land's magic, to create a single, unified nation that can take vengeance on Noxus.
The fate of Ionia hangs in a delicate balance that few are willing to overturn, but all can feel shifting uneasily beneath their feet.
The Vastaya 's origins can be traced back to a hidden corner of Ionia. The mortals lived in harmony with nature until a race of Titans came from the skies and waged war against them. Most enlightened mortals taken the power of the spirit realm into themselves, becoming the Vastayashai'rei to defeat the Titans. Initial generations of Vastayashai'rei were deathless and held immense magical power. Deciding to live among their mortal kin, their future descendants would start mixing with mortal kin and be known as the Vastaya - a blanket classification for any number of species of chimeric creatures. Over time, the varied offshoots began to settle in different regions and naturally adopted different forms - simian , avian , even piscine - according to the creatures which most embodied their strongest characteristics.
Many Vastaya later migrated to faraway lands outside of their original home of Ionia.
Warring among themselves, the Darkin destroyed any who stood against them. With his crystalline bow , Varus assassinated enemy commanders and champions, helping the Darkin defeat entire mortal armies with ever greater ease.
Eventually, Varus was cornered by Vastaya moon-stalkers and human mages in service of a golden-armored warrior queen of Valoran. They bound him within his bow, leaving him to howl in impotent rage. By then, the raw, corrupting influence of the Darkin was known, and yet still the queen chose to wield the deadly weapon in the final days of the war, gladly sacrificing herself for a greater victory.
In the months that followed, the queen carried Varus to the First Lands — those that would later be known as Ionia. Now made monstrous by the bow's power, her last act was to command her followers to bury her alive in a lightless well, sunk deep beneath a mountain temple overlooking the village of Pallas .
And there Varus was imprisoned, both by the natural magic of Ionia, and the ritual ministrations of the temple guardians.
The bow remained hidden for centuries, unknown, untouched, and all but forgotten.
In desperation, the Council of Zhyun sent an envoy to beg Kinkou Great Master Kusho for help. Upon hearing of the region's plight, Kusho feigned an excuse for why he couldn't help. But a week later, the master, his son Shen , and star apprentice Zed , disguised themselves as merchants and moved to the province. In secret, they visited the countless families emotionally shattered by the killings, dissected the horrific crime scenes, and looked for possible connections or patterns to the murders.
In time, they journeyed together with their master to track down the infamous Golden Demon. When they finally succeeded in capturing this feared “monster,” it was revealed to be a mere man named Khada Jhin . The young Zed marched forward with his blades held high, but Kusho stopped him, ordering that Jhin be imprisoned in Tuula instead.
Though Shen and Zed both thought the killer deserved heavier punishment, Shen accepted his father's decision. He strived to emulate the Eye of Twilight's dispassion, and so found himself failing to console a bitter and resentful Zed.
From its formation, the residents of Ionia preferred to pursue personal enlightenment instead of waging constant battles with other nations. The militaristic nation of Noxus saw their "weakness" as an opportunity. Noxian spies began to trade aggressively with the Ionians, traveling through provinces to study its weaknesses and identify critical targets.
Not long after, the warhosts set sail for Ionia as part of the long-planned Noxian invasion.
As the central province of Ionia, the invasion began in Navori , many villages and settlements fell, thousands of Ionians died as their magical artifacts were stolen to extend the life of their crazy emperor.
This aggression forced the religious leader Karma , known for her peaceful teachings, to fight back. Across Navori, dissenting voices began to band together. A resistance was forming, one that would not rest until Ionia was free once more.
Two beast hunters— Valmar and his heartlight, Kai —fought against the first wave at the Temple of Pallas. Though their courage was great and they drove off the attackers, Kai was mortally wounded, and a grief-stricken Val carried him inside, believing the well's forbidden magic could restore him.
But the temple held only damnation, and both hunters were consumed by the unleashed power of the Darkin within it. The very matter of their bodies was unraveled and bound together again to craft a new body, a body fit to free Varus from his imprisonment. What emerged from the well was a gestalt creature, pale and inhumanly beautiful, part human and part Darkin. After more than a thousand years, Varus was reborn.
Zed, the Master of Shadows
The hunt for Jhin , left Zed haunted by his murders and he began to struggle in his studies. The rising tensions between Ionia and the imperialistic forces of Noxus only worsened his disillusionment. Many of the provinces were occupied by the enemy. Despite this, the Kinkou focused on maintaining spiritual balance and Kusho refused to fight back.
Zed ventured deep into the temple's hidden catacombs, and there he discovered a black box. Even though he knew it was forbidden, he peered inside. Shadows enveloped Zed's mind, feeding his bitterness with contempt for the weak, and hinting at an ancient, dark magic.
Zed demanded the Kinkou strike at the Noxian invaders with every means at their disposal. When Kusho refused, Zed left the Kinkou Order and their doctrines. He joined the growing resistance at Navori and raised a following of warriors to resist Noxus. Any soul who threatened his homeland, or stood idle in its defense, was marked for death without mercy—including native vastaya who wavered in their allegiance. Zed urged his followers to embrace the fervor of war, but he realized his own abilities would never match his ambitions without the black box.
Amassing his new acolytes, he returned to the Kinkou temple, where Kusho implored his former pupil to renounce the shadows in favor of a more balanced path. Zed answered bringing in one hand, the black box—and in the other, his freshly bloodied blade.
The Kinkou fell in droves as Zed's warriors cut them down. He then claimed the temple for himself, establishing his Order of Shadow, and began training his acolytes in the ways of darkness. They etched their flesh with shadowy tattoos, learning to fight alongside shrouded reflections of themselves.
Far from home, Shen felt an imbalance within the Kinkou Order—rushing back, he came upon the survivors of the bloody coup. Repressing his anguish against Zed, he led the remnants of the Kinkou to safety in the mountains. Shen took up his father's spirit blade, as well as the title of Eye of Twilight. Following the core tenets, he began to recruit and train others, hoping to rebuild the Kinkou Order.
Though Zed did not reconcile with Shen and the remaining Kinkou, now scattered throughout the provinces, they reached an uneasy accord in the aftermath of the war.
Battle of Bard Mountain.
Noxian troops tried to capture Bard Mountain and obtain a valuable magical artifact kept by the locals. During the battle, the village sage was tasked with taking the artifact to one of the Celestial shrines on the top of the mountain. The Noxians mortally wounded him with arrows before he could reach the shrine. But as his last act of defiance, he used the artifact to strike his would-be-killer, obliterating him and slicing a nearby peak in half. This misuse of the artifact's power had drawn the attention of a Celestial being , who promptly intervened in the event. He retrieved the artifact and took it away from the mortal plane before the Noxians and Ionians could use its power for war.
Noxian Ionian Invasion Map
Mural of the Noxian Invasion of Ionia
At one of the most important points of the war, a warhost lead by Jericho Swain , captured the Placidium and took its defenders hostage, hoping to lure the inevitable reinforcements into a trap, but a 14-year-old girl named Irelia unleashed the power of Ionia ancient dances, and though it, the power of Ionia itself at the Noxians. A dozen of Swain's veterans fell, sowing chaos in their ranks as the other captives joined her before she struck down the general himself—the sight of this rebellious girl hefting his severed arm over her head would be the turning point of the war.
The growing resistance was led by Irelia for almost 3 years of war, but as Ionia united on resistance, Noxus doubled their war efforts, children were sent as foot soldiers, trying to exploit Ionian mercy and Chemtech bombs bought from an infamous Zaunite alchemist bombarded both Ionians and Noxians.
Those Chemtech bombs had gruesome effects on the land. Perhaps the place where those consequences are most notable is the Wuju village, where rumors of a one-man army raised Noxian attention. In a single night, the entire village was destroyed, its people and culture obliterated by chemical fire. Even now, years after the end of the war, nothing can grow on this land and the souls of those who died on that horrible night lay trapped by the corrupted magics of their own land.
Toward the end of the war, the resistance once lead by Irelia eventually split into different military groups, including the Navori Brotherhood , an extremist group who believes Ionia should unite and militarize itself, teaching all nations to fear Ionia. The Navori Brotherhood is one of many groups at constant civil war in Ionia, fighting each other almost as bitterly as they fought the Noxians.
After almost three years of grueling battle since the Battle of the Placidium, Irelia triumphed over the killer of her family, Admiral Duqual, at Dalu Bay. She left the leadership of the resistance and shortly after the Noxian warbands retreated from Ionia due to power shifts on their own land...
Syndra inside The Dreaming Pool
Many years have passed since the Noxian-Ionian War, in which both sides never achieved complete victory. While Ionians were able to repel further Noxian invaders from the heartland, Noxus still retained a few coastal territories. Among these was the island of Fae'lor, governed by a vastayan turncoat named Kalan.
Several Ionians that once called this island their home infiltrated its Noxian fort - formerly a monastery - in the hopes of reaching Dael'eh Ahira, the Dreaming Pool, and kill the immensely powerful mage who was imprisoned inside decades before. She was being guarded by Noxian forces, who the Ionians feared would accidentally release her and her power.
Their mission proved unsuccessful. Syndra was released, and Fae'lor was all but destroyed, its fortress lifted from the ground by the now freed Syndra into the sky and moved northward to an unknown location.
Ionia is a large archipelago located off the east coast of Valoran . The currently well-known locations encompassing Ionia are:
The main island of Ionia is split by a mountain range into two regions, Navori and Shon-Xan. It is also the location of the Ionian Capital, The Placidium, and Vlonqo.
Located on Ionia, the province of Navori spans the western half of Ionia and is home to various villages, prestigious schools, sacred magical gardens, and the iconic Placidium of Navori.
Not much is known about Shon-Xan, the eastern region of Ionia Island, though it is presumably the origin of one of Camille's favorite weapons, the Shon-Xan footed glaive.
Fae'lor is a small island to the west of the main island of Ionia. It is the location of the Dael'eh Ahira, the Dreaming Pool, which previously imprisoned Syndra . Its famous monastery school was converted into a Noxian fort during the invasion. The island has since been stripped bare by Syndra's power, and the fort ripped free of its foundations.
Bahrl is an island in the central part of the chain, south of the main island of Ionia. The villages of Tevasa and Wuju are located here, as is the Epool River , where Zed found Kayn .
Possibly is located somewhere in Ionia. It was the site of a battle over an ancient artifact that resulted in the appearance of Bard .
The Houhjo are an Ionian human tribe that occupy the two southernmost islands of the Ionian Archipelago , Galrin and Sudaro . The Houhjo's culture is centred around their custodial duties within The Temple of Pallas, which fell into disrepair after the Noxian invasion detailed in the comic, Heartlight , as well as the subsequent emergence of the Darkin , Varus . Little is known of this island nation other than its involvement in Varus' backstory.
These islands make up a small cluster in the northeastern part of the archipelago. Hirana Monastery is located on Ralin.
A mountainous island in the south of the Ionian archipelago, it was previously plagued by the infamous Golden Demon . Before the Invasion of Ionia, Zhyun was known to have its own council.
During Noxus' invasion of Ionia, many pirates from Bilgewater sailed to the island nation. For years they ruthlessly pillaged the settlements along the island's coastlines and fought naval battles with Ionian vessels when engaged. Even after the war, many Ionians still feel deep enmity towards Bilgewater due to its denizens' actions.
While Demacia campaigned against Noxus's imperial ambitions, it was unable to prevent the disasters that were inflicted on Ionia. It is unclear if Ionians feel animosity towards Demacia as a result. Several key figureheads in Demacian society originate from Ionia, such as Sona and Xin Zhao .
Not much is known about the current relations between the two nations. The first known interaction between the two cultures ended up with the destruction of the God-Willow by a stranded band of Freljordian warriors... but the second was a friendship between Lee Sin and Udyr .
The Great Stand Of The Placidium
The long planned Noxian invasion to Ionia began under Boram Darkwill orders. Rumors spread of abundant magic flowing from the land, convincing many Noxians to indulge in the conquest, seeking riches beyond their wildest dreams. But Darkwill desired immortality above all, tasking legions to search for anything relevant wherever it could possibly be obtained and annihilating those who stood in their way. In short time the presence of Noxians would increase and turn violent, eventually becoming a full-scale war.
Over the course of the invasion things became an uphill battle, the likes of which Noxians and Ionians had never experienced. As the Ionians fought in defiance, so did the land itself. This Ionian victory at the Great Stand at Navori a decade ago ensured that everyone in Ionia knew the name of Xan Irelia , and looked to her for leadership. Exhausted and nearly defeated, the war would eventually end with Jericho Swain's ascension to power and most Noxian armies were withdrawn from Ionia. After the defeat of Noxus and the return of most annexed lands, it is unclear of the present political conditions. It is well-known, however, that many Ionians have a vendetta against Noxus.
Ionia and Piltover have frequent enough trade with each other for relatively small shipping ports like Nanthee having piltover trading ships dock at its ports. Weapons from the city-state are acquired and modified for easy use in spirit magic rich Ionian land.
Ionians have suffered under numerous Harrowings enacted by the undead of the Shadow Isles.
Zaunite chemists such as Singed , which the backing of Noxus, were able to commit horrific war crimes during the Noxian invasion of Ionia. Their chemical weapons decimated Ionian lands that have physical and spiritual scars to this day.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Piltover , also known as the City of Progress , is a thriving, progressive city whose power and influence is on the rise. It is Valoran's cultural center, where art, craftsmanship, trade and innovation walk hand in hand. Its power comes not through military might, but the engines of commerce and forward thinking. Situated on the cliffs above the district of Zaun and overlooking the ocean, fleets of ships pass through its titanic sea-gates, bringing goods from all over the world. The wealth this generates has given rise to an unprecedented boom in the city's growth. Piltover has - and still is - reinventing itself as a city where fortunes can be made and dreams can be lived. Burgeoning merchant clans fund development in the most incredible endeavors: grand artistic follies, esoteric hextech research, and architectural monuments to their power. With ever more inventors delving into the emergent lore of hextech, Piltover has become a lodestone for the most skilled craftsmen the world over.
Piltover is a thriving, progressive city overlooking the ocean. Fleets of ships pass through its titanic sea-gates, bringing goods from all over the world. Merchant clans fund incredible endeavors, including artistic follies and architectural monuments to their individual power. With ever more inventors delving into hextech, Piltover has become the destination for the most skilled craftspeople from across Runeterra. [ 1 ]
Zaun finalized its plans to destroy a portion of the isthmus connecting Valoran and the Southern Continent , allowing for safe sea passage between eastern and western Valoran. The plan involved using thousand of chemtech bombs to crack open an area of the land so that a cavern could be created, but the results were catastrophic. In what seemed to be an accident, the bombs triggered a series of earthquakes that completely destroyed the isthmus and sank large districts of Zaun and thousands of its citizens, while also leaking poisonous gas into the city's surviving areas.
Janna , empowered by the prayers of Zaun's people, arrived and blew away the gas, saving many lives and being eternally remembered by Zaun's denizens, converting her from a goddess of faith for sailors to a guardian deity for Zaun. She has yet to leave Zaun following this event.
Eventually, Zaun was rebuilt. In order to regulate the river passage they were built over, the Sun Gates were constructed, forcing all transport through the waters to be regulated by Zaun. This brought immense wealth to the city and likely led to Piltover's construction and elevation from Zaun, as the ruling families were in control of the taxes and trade produced by the Sun Gates, leading to the formation of the actual Mercantile Clans of Piltover .
Construction of the Sun Gates led to great changes in eastern Valoran and the eastern seas, as Noxus was from this point on able to more easily pool together resources from across its empire without needing land travel, and Bilgewater's pirates found the seas brimming with trade ships waiting to be plundered, feeding in to the criminal underbelly of the city.
The Ferros family gained most of its wealth through a rare crystal harvested from a creature native to the sands of a distant valley. These first hex-crystals, or “first crystals,” contained power normally reserved to those born with innate magical ability. Camille's Great-Great Aunt Elicia lost an arm, and nearly her life, during one such early expedition. Her sacrifice was celebrated, and it set an expectation that is still reflected in the Ferros family motto today, “For family, will I give.”
The creatures Elicia Ferros found, the Brackern, were not an unending resource, and Camille's family had to look for ways to augment the crystals they had accumulated. Utilizing certain shadow investments in chemtech and runic alchemy, the Ferros family brought to market the less powerful, but easier to procure, synthetic hex-crystals. Such power often comes with consequences, and the production of synthetic crystals is rumored to be a heavy contributor to the Zaun Gray.
Jinx bombards the city
Piltover has been known as the City of Progress for the countless technological advancements it has made, but Jinx found a way to halt progress entirely for some time: anarchy! Chaos, buildings crumbling, people dying, painted animals running rampant, and the city in constant gunfire... it was Jinx's dream. Piltover's Finest, Caitlyn and Vi , attempted to track her down to no avail.
As Jinx's rampage escalated, Caitlyn declared a city-wide manhunt for her. Jinx responded to this by marking the treasury with a challenge to Vi, saying that she would attack the place at the time and date she had written there. When the time came, she showed up and began to wreak havoc as usual. Vi began chasing her, smashing through every wall along the way. Eventually Jinx was cornered, but she let loose a barrage of rockets, destroying the building. When the officers had awoke, all the gold was intact still remained and Jinx had spelled out something in the sky using the city's lights: "YOU'LL NEVER CATCH ME!".
Three Noxian spies, Gysbert, Tamara, and Colette, infiltrated Piltover for many months in hopes of placing an agent inside Clan Medarda. They used the annual Progress Day to showcase their technical skills to the clan's masters and apprenta.
Tamara Lautari showcased her Hex-Armillary Amplifier invention. It worked by harnessing the properties of a crystal and exponentially increasing its output. However, the invention itself proved to be dangerous as it almost destroyed the entire hall due to its faulty construction - which was intended to sabotage the proceedings.
Later on, after leaving the Medarda mansion, Tamara was apprehended by Caitlyn , who had discovered her true identity and purpose in the city. She was subsequently banished and sent back to Noxus.
Both Tamara and Gysbert failed to become Medarda apprenta, but Colette succeeded. Some time after, Colette would obtain a Medarda trading map, which she would relay to Noxian intelligence.
Jayce, the Man of Progress
A Clan Kiramman apprenta, by the name of Jayce Talis , begins secretly experimenting with a way to harness magic through science with the hex crystals, inspired after being saved as a child by a mage. A break in at his workshop causes one of his hex crystals to shatter, blowing up his workshop and causing the wardens to launch an investigation into his research. The assistant to the Dean of the Academy confiscates his work and Jayce is arrested by the wardens for conducting unauthorized research.
Heimerdinger advises Jayce to accept his mistake and not mention his research to the Council, warning that magic cannot be controlled. During his trial, Jayce pleads guilty to his negligence, but reveals the nature of his research and argues the good that magic could bring to Piltover if mastered. The Council denounces the use of magic and moves to banish Jayce, before Ximena Talis intervenes. She convinces the Council not to banish him, but he is expelled from the Academy and released into her care.
Disappointed that his mother does not believe in his vision, Jayce leaves in search of someone who does have faith in him. At the Academy, Heimerdinger and Viktor discuss Jayce's research; while Heimerdinger dismisses the possibility of harnessing magic and prepares to have it destroyed, Viktor is intrigued by Jayce's theory and takes one of his journals. After being rejected by the Kirammans, Jayce returns to his ruined workshop, only to find Viktor there as well. Seeing a kindred spirit in Jayce, Viktor offers to help him stabilize the hex crystals and the two form a partnership.
The duo quickly learn how to stabilize the hex crystals, but discover that Jayce's research will be destroyed the next day. Jayce and Viktor sneak into the Academy and attempt to break into Heimerdinger's lab. They are discovered by Councilor Mel Medarda , but Jayce convinces her to give them a chance and she distracts a patrolling warden. Inside the lab, they begin work to stabilize the hex crystal, but the light from it's magic alerts Heimerdinger and the wardens. They eventually manage to stabilize crystal, just as the wardens break into the lab, and float from the magic emanating from the crystal. While Heimerdinger is displeased, Councilor Medarda is impressed and the breakthrough is brought before the Council. Over the next several years, Hextech revolutionizes trade and transport in Piltover with the creation of the Hexgates.
Piltover is a city-state located on an isthmus between Valoran and Shurima . The current well known locations (not counting Zaun) in Piltover are:
Dual city-states that control the major trade routes between Valoran and Shurima. Home both to visionary inventors and their wealthy patrons, the divide between social classes is becoming more dangerous.
Hexdraulic Conveyors are scattered across Zaun, connecting it with Piltover and its numerous city levels. Some conveyors are for public use (those that can afford it), while some for private, used mostly by Chem-Barons and wealthy Piltovans.
The most important location of all of Zaun and Piltover, it was the epicenter of a massive man made geological disaster that sunk most of old Zaun. Currently, it is the location of massive spires jutting upwards towards Piltover as an arrogant testimony to Zaun's resolve to survive. One such building is the College of Techmaturgy. The Sun Gates are built above The Cliff.
Map of Piltover in Arcane
Piltover as shown in the Arcane universe has a considerably different origin as well as city layout. The Sun Gates do not exist, instead the Hexgates are the prominent feature of the city as well as focal point of Piltover trade supremacy. The canal that connects east and west seas is more natural in its curvature, instead of being an entirely artificial straight through the original landmass. The city stretches from north to south, instead of predominantly taking space on the east side of the canal. The fissures where Zaun is located are only scattered on the southern side of the city, where as they take up the majority of the east side of the canal (under the Sun Gates) in the main canon. While the scale of Piltover is smaller than in the main canon, its buildings still retain the same distinct visual aesthetics.
To the wealthy clans of Piltover, sea-borne trade is key to their continued wealth. Detailed knowledge of the ocean's many trade routes and city ports (as well as the people who control them) is jealously guarded and passed down only to worthy heirs. Over the years, Jago Medarda has sailed far and wide to secure Clan Medarda's fortune, and his well-traveled - and oft-amended - map offers many clues to those seeking their fortune upon the high seas.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Aurma , such as Clan Medarda with Mistress Arathmae. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are Roes and leathers.
As Runeterra's biggest black market, Bilgewater trades all manner of illicit hextech pilfered from Piltover. The Sun Gates allowed Bilgewater to prosper as a haven for pirates and reavers who prey on ships traveling to and from Piltover.
Piltover and Demacia may have their differences, but the two nations are on relatively friendly terms. Scientists from the City of Progress are usually welcomed inside Demacia. However, should the scientists wish to perform experiments there, they must first get clearance from Demacian officials.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Holdrum , such as Clan Medarda with Lord Brannin of Sea. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are pearls and fish sauce.
In recent times, Ixtali have had an unwelcoming contact with the nation of Piltover. The Piltover Explorers Guild has delved into the Jungle in search of arcane treasures, only to vanish without a trace (due to the wildlife, or the Ixtali defending their borders). However, due to the actions of Qiyana , Piltover has found out about the existence of this hidden nation.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Kumangra , such as Clan Medarda with individual known as Panaris. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are Song birds from the famous Kumangra Song-Market District, though trading families have a hard time at holding contracts in this nation due to the fickle nature of Kumangrans.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Mudtown , such as Clan Medarda with individual known as Sallie One-Eye. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are materials for red-shale bricks as well as Nirpooti fruit.
As the most expansive nation on Runeterra, Noxus heavily relies on the crucial port of Piltover to connect its land in Valoran and its territory in northern Shurima. Due to the neutral city's strategic location, many Noxian shadow agents have infiltrated all levels of Piltover's society in order to prepare the empire for a possible future invasion.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Palclyff , such as Clan Medarda with Foreman Piarre Yaeshiff. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are weapons, armor, and Honeyfruit .
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the cities of Shurima, such as Kalamanda , Urzeris, Nashramae, Tereshni, and Bel'Zhun. The City itself was built on top of an old Shuriman outpost known as Oshra Va'Zaun. Individuals, organizations, and trading families have frequently exploited the nations natural resources such as Hextech Crystals and Ancient Shuriman Tombs. The Piltover Explorers Guild is infamous for hiring explorers in search of old Shuriman artifacts and relics.
Piltover trading families have close trading ties with the city-state nation of Stonewall , such as Clan Medarda with Councilman Aj Ni Noorin. One of the nations more well known exports to Piltover are Dunpor milk and curds.
As the two leading city-states in the development of hextech, Zaun and Piltover have a deep competitive rivalry, both vying to be the ones directing the future of techmaturgy on Runeterra. Smuggling campaigns are frequently orchestrated by Zaunite thieves; the valuable technologies obtained are then later sold on the black market all across Runeterra. The two cities also share deep historical, social, and cultural connections, as Piltover (literally and figuratively) rose from the foundations of Zaun.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
In Dev Update - Champs, Lore & More , Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by ironing out any inconsistencies that have sprung up over the years.
This article contains information that conflicts with this new narrative and will most likely be changed/moved in the following year(s).
Zaun , also known as the City of Iron and Glass , is a large undercity district lying in the deep canyons and valleys threading Piltover . What light reaches below is filtered through fumes leaking from the tangles of corroded pipework and reflected from the stained glass of its industrial architecture. Zaun and Piltover were once united, but are now separate, yet symbiotic societies. Though it exists in perpetual smogged twilight, Zaun thrives, its people vibrant and its culture rich. Piltover's wealth has allowed Zaun to develop in tandem; a dark mirror of the city above. Many of the goods coming to Piltover find their way into Zaun's black markets, and hextech inventors who find the restrictions placed upon them in the city above too restrictive often find their dangerous researches welcomed in Zaun. Unfettered development of volatile technologies and reckless industry has rendered whole swathes of Zaun polluted and dangerous. Streams of toxic runoff stagnate in the city's lower reaches, but even here people find a way to exist and prosper.
Zaun is a polluted undercity located beneath Piltover - once united, they are now separate, symbiotic cultures. Stifled inventors often find their unorthodox research welcomed in Zaun, but reckless industry has rendered whole swathes of the city highly toxic. It is a place both supported and ruined by unchecked industry, mercantilism, and magic run amok. The pollution from the countless factories and laboratories is constantly spewed into the environment. The urban heart of the city is often choked with smog that blocks the morning sun and drains the sky of its pastels. Visitors have called the sky the 'Zaun Gray', and describe staring up at it akin to seeing the beginnings of a cosmic disturbance. As polluted as Zaun is above-ground, its subterranean levels are far worse. All of Zaun's runoff waste pools together in its sewers, mixing together into toxic and mysterious concoctions. Even so, thanks to a thriving black market, chemtech, and mechanical augmentation, the people of Zaun still find ways to prosper. [ 1 ]
More than three thousand years ago, a port was founded in the isthmus in the would-be present location of Zaun. It would later become part of the ancient Shurima empire. It is unclear if the name of mercantile city was Kha'Zhun or Osha Va'Zaun, but over time the name was changed to Zaun.
During the Great Darkin War, Janna shielded the city from their conflicts. When the war was over, the Targonians hid the Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 683: attempt to call field 'get' (a nil value). deep within the caverns of Zaun.
Janna , empowered by the prayers of Zaun's people, arrived and blew away the gas, saving many lives and being eternally remembered by Zaun's denizens, converting her from a goddess of faith for sailors to a guardian deity for Zaun. She has yet to leave Zaun following this event.
Eventually Zaun was rebuilt. In order to regulate the oceanic passage they were built over, the Sun Gates were constructed, forcing all transport through the waters to be regulated by Zaun. This brought immense wealth to the city and likely led to Piltover's construction and elevation from Zaun, as the merchant clans were in control of most of the money coming through this trade route.
Construction of the Sun Gates led to great changes in eastern Valoran and the eastern seas, as Noxus was from this point on able to more easily pool together resources from across its empire without needing land travel, and Bilgewater's pirates found the seas brimming with trade ships waiting to be plundered, feeding in to the criminal underbelly of the city.
Urgot , a noxian headsman who took the control of the Dredge, a chemtech prison mine, after being a prisoner of the mine himself, started a riot that ignited a chemtech vein within the mine, Urgot shook the city above, and cracked the prison open in an explosion that rivaled the birth of Zaun itself. Many prisoners died, and thousands more disappeared into the Sump beneath the city. But the strong, as ever, survived.
Vi, the Piltover Enforcer
Years after a failed uprising, barkeep Vander maintains an uneasy peace between the undercity and Piltover. During a heist in Piltover, Vi , Powder , Mylo , and Claggor break into Jayce Talis' workshop and steal several of his experimental hex crystals. One of his crystals shatter, blowing up the workshop and alerts the attention of the wardens. After escaping to Zaun, they are intercepted by a gang working for Silco . The destruction of the workshop causes the wardens to launch an investigation into the undercity, escalating tensions.
Vander is approached by Sheriff Grayson to anonymously turn in the perpetrators of the heist, but he refuses. Silco is informed that Vander's children were responsible for the heist and sees an opportunity to get rid of Vander. He lures Warden Marcus into a meeting and bribes him to bring Vander to him. After contemplating the failed heist, Vi decides to take responsibility and prepares to turn herself in. Vander learns of this and takes her place instead. As the wardens arrest Vander, they are ambushed by Silco and a Shimmer empowered thug , killing all of the wardens except Marcus and taking Vander hostage.
Jinx, the Loose Cannon
Vi watches this unfold and escapes back to the Last Drop. Vi, Claggor, and Mylo prepare to free Vander, but Powder is told to stay back. Wanting to prove that she isn't weak, Powder decides to come any way, armed with some of her home-made traps and the hex crystals. The trio break into Silco's warehouse and try to free Vander, only to find it's a trap. Vi dons Vander's old iron gauntlets and holds off Silco's forces as Claggor and Mylo free Vander. Despite beating most of Silco's forces, Vi is quickly overwhelmed by a Shimmer empowered thug and the group barricade themselves in a room. Powder watches from the outside and unleashes a monkey bomb powered by a hex crystal. The bomb detonates, igniting the Shimmer within the factory and killing Claggor and Mylo.
Silco's forces recuperate from the explosion and Vander fights them off, however he is still no match for the Shimmer empowered thug. He is stabbed by Silco and thrown into the fire. Vander manages to find some undamaged Shimmer and ingests it. Empowered by the drug, Vander takes down the thug and gets Vi to safety. Vander eventually succumbs to his wounds and dies. As Vi mourns his death, Powder appears, revealing she was the one who set off the bomb. Furious, Vi yells at her and leaves to cool off. Believing she was abandoned, Powder cries just as Silco approaches. Vi sees this and tries to go back for her before being knocked out by Marcus. Vi is taken to Piltover and locked up in Stillwater Prison as Silco takes Powder under his wing and takes control of the undercity.
Several years after Vander's death, Silco now rules the Undercity as its de facto leader and Shimmer runs rampant in the Lanes. With the newly appointed Sheriff Marcus on his payroll, his activies are concealed from the Council. Some try to resist his rule but are ultimately helpless to stop him. Powder, now going by Jinx, works under him and sees him as a father figure. During the bicentennial Progress Day, Sevika , Silco's enforcer, and her gang attempts to smuggle Shimmer into Piltover. They are intercepted by the Firelights , a mysterious gang that opposes Silco. Jinx tries to defend shipment but the fighting causes most of the Shimmer to be destroyed.
Sevika returns to the Last Drop, now under Silco's control, and reports their failure, ranting about Jinx's lack of control. Jinx is dejected by her failure, but Silco reassures her. In order to make up for her failure, she sneaks into Piltover and breaks into Jayce and Viktor's lab, stealing their research on their experimental hextech gemstone. She distracts the Wardens by setting a fire and luring several of into a fatal trap, however, she still is spotted by Caitlyn Kiramman . Silco is furious at the attention drawn by Jinx's antics, but has a change of heart when she presents him with the gemstone.
In order to find out more about the attack, Caitlyn visits Stillwater Prison in hopes of interrogating one of Silco's thugs, but finds out he was attacked by another inmate. The inmate is revealed to be Vi, who manages to convince Caitlyn to get her released, in exchange for helping her track down Silco. Meanwhile, Marcus demands retribution for the deaths of the enforcers, but Silco pays him off with a donation to their families. Caitlyn and Vi venture in to the Undercity, where Vi begins her search for her sister. Marcus pays Silco another visits and notes that Jayce is now on the Council and he is beginning to investigate the attack. Marcus grows more anxious at the thought of being discovered, but Silco tells him to deflect the blame on the Firelights. Seeing that he is faltering, Silco wants Jinx to weaponize the gemstone.
Finding no leads on Silco, Vi decides to confront Sevika instead. Despite initially overpowering her, Sevika manages to stab Vi, after revealing that Powder is working for Silco. Before Sevika can finish Vi off, Caitlyn intervenes, firing several shots at her, and retreats with a wounded Vi. Sevika later reports Vi's return to Silco, while Jinx experiments with the gemstone. As Silco's men search for Caitlyn and Vi, Jinx catches wind of the manhunt and ambushes Sevika, forcing her to reveal that Vi has returned. As Vi continues to bleed, Caitlyn encounters a vagabond who claims to know Vi. He brings her to an apothecarie, where she trades her gun for some medicine to stop the bleeding. She gives Vi the medicine, but they are discovered by Silco, who was tipped off the vagabond for some Shimmer.
Silco unleashes his Shimmer thugs against them, but Vi causes the building around them to collapse and they escape. Meanwhile, Jinx lights the flare that Vi gave her, hoping for her sister to come to her. Vi races towards the signal and reunites with her sister, but when Caitlyn arrives the two begin to square off. As Vi tries to descalate tensions, they are ambushed by the Firelights, who knock out Vi and Caitlyn and take the gemstone.
Zaun is a city within Piltover located between Valoran and Shurima. The current well known locations (not counting Piltover) in Zaun are:
Dual city-states that control the major trade routes between Valoran and Shurima. Home both to visionary inventors and their wealthy patrons, the divide between social classes is becoming more dangerous.
Entertainment and commercial zone located above the Entresol level. The upper reaches of Zaun exist alongside the lower districts of Piltover, though the differing architecture means the two could never be confused. This is where the wealthy of Zaun gather to shop, dine, and trade goods and supplies from below and where Pilties go for good, cheap times.
A level of Zaun situated just below the Promenade: the notional border between Piltover and Zaun. Deep in Zaun, brokers, dealers, traffickers and entertainers mingle in cliff-dug trading posts and workshops. A flourishing hub of cosmopolitan commercial arcades, supper-clubs, recital halls, joy houses, and “everything goes” type clubs, making it one of the most populated districts of the cities. This is where the Zaun Gray tends to linger most. Zaunites living here would claim this level is where the majority of the work that allows the city to function takes place. It is the level where Viktor was born.
Zaun's deepest levels, past the reaches of the Gray-filtered light, where the environment turns grim, increasingly disorderly, and poorly lit; it is densely cramped with piping and discarded items. Most of the working class live here or just above it. The depths of Zaun are amongst the most squalid yet vibrant parts of the city. The Zaun Gray has its origin here, rising from rank waterways or venting from corroded grilles. Thick chem-fumes thread the alleys between crowded abandoned industrial buildings. It has been built and rebuilt on top of itself, and almost everything there now serves the chemtech industry (or its workers) in some way. Sump Works, and Sector 90TZ located in it, are one of many locations in Zaun. It is here where Twitch was spotted after his mutational transformation.
Hexdraulic Conveyors are scattered across Zaun, connecting it with Piltover and its numerous city levels. Some conveyors are for public use (those that can afford it), while some for private, used mostly by Chem-Barons and wealthy Piltovans.
The most important location of all of Zaun and Piltover, it was the epicenter of a massive man-made geological disaster that sunk most of old Zaun. Currently, it is the location of massive spires jutting upwards towards Piltover as an arrogant testimony to Zaun's resolve to survive. One such building is the College of Techmaturgy. The Sun Gates are built above The Cliff.
Underneath modern Sump Levels of Zaun, the old port city ruins of Oshra Va'Zaun can still be found. This location holds secrets which explorers often risk their lives to uncover. Stretching far under the River Pilt, the ruins are a veritable labyrinth, with whole maze of dusty staircases and old passageways.
Map of Piltover in Arcane
Zaun as shown in the Arcane universe has a considerably different origin as well as city layout. The Sun Gates do not exist, therefor the way the undercity was formed is different in comparison to main canon. There are also no indications that Zaun was originally a Shuriman settlement, representing original Piltover before the construction of the Sun Gates and subsequent sinking of whats considered canon modern Zaun. Its location is only in the south area of Piltover, where as in canon Zaun takes up most of the eastern lower levels under the Sun Gates. Zaun is considerably smaller in scale, with more narrower fissures and less dominating towers, the tallest tower being the Chem-Baron Tower (instead of the College of Techmaturgy in canon). There is a distinct lack of the Promenade, Entresol, and Sump levels dividing the undercity, instead the city is divided into lanes that represent each of the fissures. The elevators enabling people to travel from the surface to the undercity are also smaller in scale, with no Rising Howl Public Hexdraulic Descender dominating both the Piltovan and Zaunite cityscapes. While the scale of Zaun is smaller than in the main canon, its buildings still retain the same distinct visual aesthetics.
A Piltovan chem-baron who was active during Silco's reign over Zaun. He runs The Hush Company , a vast network of informants and fences that acts as a switchboard for any and all illicit activity in the undercity—including that of his fellow Chem-Barons.
Corina is a meticulous artist with ambitious dreams for Zaun's future, and aims to become the envy of Piltover's ruling houses and Zaun's warring chem-barons alike. She enjoys gathering deadly ingredients from the rare plants that she grows in her cultivair, her scars artfully concealed by fashionable accoutrements. Her current Magnum Opus is a rare flower that feeds on the volatile chemicals of the Zaun Grey. She is also the arch-nemesis of Sheriff Caitlyn Kiramman .
A chem-baron who spent his fortune on high-grade chemtech . He was killed by Urgot .
Eramis has occasionally made deals with Piltovan nobles, such as Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). of Clan Ferros.
A chem-baron who was active during Silco's reign over Zaun. His company, the Slickjaws , specializes in elimination services and purveys both weaponry (including poisons) and manpower for large-scale operations. He attempted to overthrow Silco after losing faith in his leadership, but had his throat slit by Silco's right-hand Sevika in the process.
In his youth, Karvyq fell in love with Aurelie of House Tariost. As their love was forbidden, her family had his hands cut off as punishment for his low standing. He replaced them with silver prosthetics, making him known as the Silverhanded . When Aurelie died, Karvyq had a thief steal her ashes, which he then tattooed onto his chest. In the modern age, Karvyq is known for his chemtech products, which are extremely sophisticated, and his intense hatred towards House Tariost.
A chem-baroness who was active during Silco's reign over Zaun. Her company, The Vyx , provides pleasure services in the undercity, catering to any impulse, persuasion, or inclination.
A chem-baron who terrorized the gutters of Zaun, Marko attempted to forcibly marry Lady Sofia of House Arvino so that he would inherit her family's wealth and influence in Piltover. He was assassinated by Camille of Clan Ferros before he could do so.
A chem-baron who lost both his arms in an explosion at one of his chem-refineries and had them replaced with mechanical prosthetics. His chemtech stock is one of the most popular blends in Zaun.
A chem-baronness who prefers to use manipulation instead of violence to achieve her goals. After being orphaned as a child and left with nothing but her name and her parents' alchemical research, she spent the next few decades building her own business empire by tying everyone's interests to her own and ultimately emerged as Zaun's wealthiest crime lord. Her company, Glasc Industries , produces weaponry, prosthetics, and perfumes from an unique blend of chemicals developed by her parents.
A chem-baroness who was active during Silco's reign over Zaun. Her company, the Sludgerunners , manufactures chemtech devices for the denizens of the undercity. After her son was accidentally killed by Jayce Talis during a raid on one of her factories, she joined Finn in his attempt to overthrow Silco, but backed down after Sevika killed Finn. After Silco's death, Renni attacked Jayce in an attempt to get revenge for her son's murder, but had her throat slit by Ambessa before she could land the killing blow. She has a custom Turbo Chemtank named after her.
An Ionian chem-baron known for his violent temperament, he has a reputation for bloody gang warfare and is disdainful towards his fellow chem-barons. Claiming lineage from an exiled caste of warriors from a distant land, he has plans far beyond his own territories and interests. He was also responsible for funding the super-soldier project that created the monster Zac .
A drug kingpin who formed the first generation of Chem-Barons and served as their leader. He introduced the drug shimmer to the Zaunite population. After ruling over the undercity for nearly a decade, he was accidentally killed by his adoptive daughter Jinx when she suffered a mental breakdown.
A Yordle chem-baron who was active during Silco's reign over Zaun. His company, the Scrap Hackers , provides cybernetic modifications for both cosmetic and performance purposes. After Silco's death, Smeech attempted to appease the Topsiders by capturing Jinx and handing her over to them. However, before he could successfully turn her over to the Piltover, he was mangled to death by Sevika with a mechanical arm given to her by Jinx.
A chem-baroness with many business interests in Piltover, she deals mainly into golem technology. Her ravaged body was dying, so she had her head transplanted to a hextech-powered replacement. She visits Piltover regularly for fluid baths and blood/oil transfusions.
A chem-baroness who served as the warden of the Dredge, a chemtech prison mine located underneath Zaun. She would sometimes offer freedom in return for a prisoner's tortured confession, which she granted with the edge of her blade. She was eventually forced to abandon the Dredge and flee to Piltover after a violent encounter with Urgot, who took control of the mine in her place.
A chem-baron who rose to power by murdering his boss and taking over his criminal empire. Armed with a pair of shock-batons, he is a ruthless killer who sees murder and mayhem as tools of the trade. He currently works for Glasc Industries.
The Academy is an institution that formed and controls the College Of Techmaturgy.
When the pipes of Zaun are backed up with toxic sludge, the chem-jacks use their canker-spars to unblock them. Armored faceplates are a must, because every almshouse already has its share of blinded and burned chem-jacks.
Zaun has numerous criminal groups: the Gray Nails, the Factorywood Fiends, the Lost Children of Zaun. Chem-punks are gang members from Zaun; the term is also used as a derogatory term for any trouble maker.
Augmented mechanicians are trained to repair searing-hot pipes in the most dangerous parts of Zaun.
Nothing is wasted in Zaun, and even the toxic hinterlands of the Sump can be churned for salvage. These toxic environments are too hostile for an unprotected human, so sump-scrappers make their living wading through the waste on iron stilts.
The short life-expectancy of Zaun's workers results in a great many orphans. Sumpsnipes can be found begging, stealing or earning a coin in places where their small size is an advantage.
Zaunite chemists such as Singed , which the backing of Noxus, were able to commit horrific war crimes during the Noxian invasion of Ionia. Their chemical weapons decimated Ionian lands that have physical and spiritual scars to this day.
Despite the empire's plans to invade Piltover, Noxus has a friendly relationship with the undercity of Zaun. Mercenaries from Zaun were recruited by Noxus during the invasion of Ionia, the most terrifying being Singed and his biological weaponry.
As the two leading city-states in the development of hextech, Zaun and Piltover have a deep competitive rivalry, each vying to be the one directing the future of techmaturgy on Runeterra. Smuggling campaigns are frequently orchestrated by Zaunite thieves; the valuable technologies obtained are then later sold on the black market all across Runeterra. The two cities also share deep historical, social, and cultural connections, as Piltover (literally and figuratively) rose from the foundations of Zaun.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
The Freljord (pronounced /'fɹɛɫjɔɹd/ frell-yord ) is a harsh and unforgiving land. Proud and fiercely independent, its people are born warriors, with a strong raiding culture. While there are many individual tribes within the Freljord, the battle lines are being drawn in a three-way civil war that will determine the future of them all. One tribe unflinchingly honors the traditions that have ensured its survival; another follows the dream of a united future, as foretold by a young idealist ; while the third worships the power of an enigmatic sorceress . Freljord is also the only place where True Ice can be found. [ 1 ]
The Freljord is a harsh and unforgiving place—the people there are born warriors, and must persevere against all odds.
Proud and fiercely independent, the tribes of the Freljord are often considered wild, rugged, and “uncivilized” by their neighbors across Valoran , who do not know the ancient traditions that shaped them. Many thousands of years ago, the alliance between the sisters Avarosa, Serylda, and Lissandra was shattered in a war that unknowingly threatened all of Runeterra, plunging the northern lands into chaos and a near-constant winter. Now, only truly exceptional mortals who seem immune to the ravages of fire or ice seem destined, or able, to lead.
Despite the best efforts of the Frostguard , myths and legends of the old gods, the enigmatic yetis , and restless spirit walker shamans endure amongst the people. The raiders of the Winter's Claw range further with each passing year, harrying the borders of Demacia to the south, and the frontiers of Noxus to the east. Seeking a more peaceful future, the fractious independent tribes and clans have begun to offer their allegiance to Ashe , young queen of the Avarosans .
Even so, the portents are grim. War is surely returning to the Freljord, and none can hope to escape it.
Long before the arrival of the mortal races, the demi-gods manifested from supernatural forces and formed the land they called Vorrijaard . While the truth about how they did it remains unclear, many tales have been passed down over generations.
In the days of the first tribes, wild magic ran rampant. The demi-gods were widely venerated and worshipped. A long-lost populace was known as the Hearthblood, apprentices who journeyed from all corners of Valoran , and gathered on the slopes of Hearth-Home to learn from Ornn , demi-god of the forge. Despite this imitative form of worship, Ornn never considered himself their patron. He would only give them curt nods or frowns when they offered up their work, and yet the Hearthblood accepted this and were determined to hone their skills. As a result, they came to create the finest tools, design the sturdiest structures, and brew the tastiest ales the world had ever beheld. They believed Ornn secretly approved of their perseverance, and the fact that they were always looking to better themselves in their craft. Meanwhile, great wars were waged, and the Volibear , demi-god of destruction, strength, and the storm, took to the field alongside his followers, clad in rune-inscribed armor made by his brother Ornn . At the time, the brothers' bond was strong—they often fought at each other's side, even though Ornn never had quite the same lust for battle. The Volibear reveled in hard-fought victories, and as ever more blood offerings were made to him, his power swelled.
In time, they drifted apart, each focusing on their own pursuits. Even so, there was no true division between them...until new ideas began to usurp the old beliefs.
In a time long forgotten, before the sands birthed and then swallowed Shurima , beings of old magic freely walked Runeterra . The borders between the mortal realm and what lay beyond it were hotly contested.
Into this dangerous and volatile age, Lissandra and her sisters, Serylda and Avarosa, were born. Three sisters rose to power, seeking to control and impose order on the Freljord, and the demi-gods could not agree on how to proceed. A few, like Anivia , seemed inclined to work with the sisters, while the Volibear and the Iron Boar wanted to destroy them. Others would have been content to ignore them completely, since these feeble creatures would eventually die like all before them.
The Volibear looked to the most animalistic and savage of his followers, known as the Ursine . With them, he would defeat the three sisters. In preparation, he sought out Ornn to arm his warriors for battle.
But Ornn refused. He did not approve of the Ursine's savage ways, and a terrible fight erupted between the two demi-gods. The resultant cataclysm was a storm of fire and ash and lightning so intensely violent that it was seen ten horizons away. In the aftermath, the Volibear cursed his brother's name, and cast off his rune-inscribed armor. He would then fight with only tooth, claw, might, and thunder. Far from becoming weakened, the Volibear now found his true power fully unleashed. When the dust settled, Hearth-Home was a smoldering caldera, and the Hearthblood were reduced to scattered bones and cinders. Though he would never admit it, Ornn was devastated. Through the Hearthblood he had glimpsed the sweeping potential of mortal life, only to see it all lost beneath the indiscriminate wrath of his immortal struggle. Wracked with guilt, he retreated to the isolation of his foundry, and buried himself in his work for an age.
With newfound rage, the Volibear confronted one of the mortal sisters who sought to steal the power of the demi-gods for herself. Before her entire army, he struck her down, blinding her—but he was unable to stop what she had already set in motion.
Each of the three sisters paid a terrible price for the power they sought. Attempting to command the heavens above them, Serylda lost her voice to the first twilight . Avarosa faced the twisting dark beneath the world, and was deafened by its emptiness, waiting to consume all creation. Lissandra was blinded by the Volibear himself.
Though each sister had lost a part of themselves, it was on the frozen fields of Lissandra's many battles that they were able to unite and prevail. Together, they were unstoppable...but even a bond of blood could only weather so much.
With her sight taken, Lissandra chose instead to walk in dreams. As she navigated the fitful visions of those around her, she realized only she could see the darkness below for what it was: the lingering abyss which promised not only an ending, but infinity. It was death, both dangerous and full of potential. Unknown to her sisters, Lissandra struck a deal on their behalf with the god-like entities she had communed with—the Watchers would grant them near-immortality in exchange for preparing Runeterra for the coming of the Void.
The three sisters and their most powerful followers were named Iceborn . Those with this ability to withstand the worst of the numbing frost would be spared until the very end.
Avarosa argued that the only thing worse than death was servitude. Even Serylda bristled against what would become of the world they had fought so hard for. Caught in the middle, Lissandra tried to soothe her sisters' concerns while appealing to the Watchers for more time, but the unknowable nothingness cared not for such platitudes.
On a fateful day, Avarosa's and Serylda's Iceborn hordes marched into the mountains to face Lissandra before the walls of her own fortress. At the height of this bitter confrontation, the Watchers finally came to Runeterra and showed what they truly were. In that moment, Lissandra's only choices were to let all the world be consumed, or to give up what she cared for most—Lissandra chose to sacrifice her sisters and the allies they had gathered, entombing the Watchers beneath a glacial barrier of magical ice that could never be melted.
Lissandra soon discovered that even this elemental power was not enough. The monstrous beings she had frozen were merely slumbering, slowly tainting the True Ice around them into something darker. Now, they wandered through Lissandra's dreams as easily as she had theirs, and always she would wake, terrified, professing her loyalty to the chilling eternity they promised.
Lissandra in the Howling Abyss
Ever the survivor, she gathered her remaining followers to venerate her and her departed sisters. If True Ice would delay the inevitable end of all things, then they had to gather as much of it as they could find, and scour the frozen lands for any of Iceborn descent to join their cause.
Lissandra and the first among her Frostguard did everything in their power to rewrite history, seizing all records of what had truly happened...and yet, rumors and prophecies persisted in both myth and song. It was whispered that Avarosa and Serylda would one day return to unite the disparate tribes, and so Lissandra had any of those hailed as their reincarnations quietly killed. Even she retreated into the shadows, periodically renewing herself with the powers she had been gifted.
Braum, the Heart of the Freljord
Even as a child, Braum was much larger than other Freljordian youngsters, but his mother taught him never to use his size to intimidate or bully. She came from a proud line of herders, and believed true courage lay in using one's power not to dominate, but to protect those in need.
When Braum was still a boy, ice giants devastated a neighboring tribe. That tribe had long preyed upon the herds of Braum's people, but his mother didn't hesitate to head out across the tundra to help the survivors, bearing furs, foodstuffs, and healing supplies. At first, Braum didn't understand why she would aid their rivals—but after her actions saved many lives, they became lifelong allies. He finally understood what his mother meant when she said all the Freljord's people were a family, and from that day forth, he pledged to bring that family together.
As Braum grew, it was clear he was one of the revered Iceborn, though even among their number, his strength and ability to endure the elements were legendary. He became a local hero, rescuing children who had slipped into icy ravines, saving travelers stranded in blizzards, and protecting families from ravaging wildclaws. Whenever he appeared, people knew help had arrived. He was a figure of hope, known for his liveliness and laughter, and the easy way he made friends.
Eventually, Braum realized he was needed beyond the valleys and tundra where he'd been raised. Bidding his mother a tearful farewell, he set out to travel the Freljord.
Over the years, countless stories spread of Braum's mighty feats and good deeds. While most had at least a kernel of truth, they grew increasingly far-fetched and mythic—such as the legend of how he chopped down an entire forest in a single night using only his bare hands, or how during a volcanic eruption, he saved an isolated farmstead by picking it up and carrying it to higher ground.
Ashe, the Warmother
One of the oldest tribes in the Freljord, the Avarosan Tribe, lead by their leader Grena, set out on a dangerous quest for the truth behind an ancient myth of Avarosa's Throne. During that time, a young Ashe was training to become the future leader of the tribe.
The Journey took them deep into hostile territory of the Ice Children, where the Avarosan Frost Priest Maalcrom and the Hearthbound ultimately turned back. Grena, Ashe , and their Bloodsworn braved the punishing climate. After days of trekking, the Iceborn are ambushed at their camp by the Draklorn.
Grena and the other Bloodsworn such as Yrael, Rorn, Grimshall, and Logren sacrificed themselves so that Ashe and the other tribesman could escape, but not before Grena entrusted Ashe with a map marking the possible location of Avarosa's Throne.
After traveling unforgiving ice cliffs for days, Ashe reached the edge of her mother's maps: Ghulfrost. Though Grena expected to find Avarosa's Throne, a hall and hoard of treasure, Ashe found merely an unmarked cairn in the snow...only to discover a legendary bow made entirely of True Ice buried in the rocks. With this bow, she ultimately slayed any Draklorn Frostguard servant, including Maalcrom, who was disguised as their leader.
After discovering her tribe was dead, Ashe found Sejuani and together, they killed a grellfeen. They reunited after five years apart. They escaped after being chased by a group of Ursine .
Ashe and Sejuani traveled on boat for days before reaching the Winter's Claw. Sejuani welcomed Ashe into her tribe, becoming Battlesisters, but the other tribesmen such as the Frost Priests and her mother Kalkia refused to accept her as one of them.
Attempting to challenge her mother's rule, Sejuani staged an attack on the Ebrataal tribe allied with Winter's Claw, which was weak and had no Iceborn amongst them. Founding out the true nature of this attack, Ashe refused to go further with Sejuani's plan and stood to protect the assaulted tribesmen, vowing to take them away across the Ice Sea. Enraged by Ashe's decision, Sejuani and the other Winter's Claw allied with her left the Ebrataal tribe, branding Ashe as a traitor.
Ashe took the Ebrataal tribe upon herself and renamed them to the Avarosan, after the tribe her mother once led.
Sejuani, the Winter's Wrath
After being abandoned by Ashe, Sejuani swore a sacred oath to lead a raid against a Noxian warship, hoping that fulfilling this oath would be enough to rally the tribe to her and earn enough support to wrest power from Kalkia and the Frost Priests.
During the assault, Sejuani freed a juvenile drüvask from the ship's butchery stores, naming it Bristel. This creature would grow to become one of the largest drüvasks ever seen, and remained with Sejuani as her loyal steed.
Her raid a success, Sejuani decided it was time to challenge her mother directly for the tribe. By the ancient customs, a duel between a mother and her daughter was unthinkable—but Sejuani would not be deterred.
Outraged, the Frost Priests were forced to intervene, and Kalkia died in the struggle before Sejuani could reach her.
As the new Warmother of the Winter's Claw, Sejuani began attacking and absorbing nearby tribes, consolidating her power and gathering a veritable horde of outcast shamans, spirit walkers, Iceborn and Stormborn, and Old Gods worshippers attracted to her defiance of the Frostguard.
In only a few years the Winter's Claw had become feared throughout the northlands for their speed, brutality, and absolute devotion to their Warmother, marching on the southern tribes, Noxian interlopers, and even the borderlands of Demacia—raiding, pillaging, and conquering any who stand against Sejuani.
Tryndamere, the Barbarian King
But even as every duel was won, his singular fury was deeply unsettling, and his rapid healing between bouts was also noted—the more Tryndamere gave in to his rage, the more quickly his body healed. Many suspected he and his clan practiced strange and unnatural magics, and so Tryndamere's plan was now endangering the wider acceptance of his people.
During one duel, he was so lost in his fury that it seemed certain he would kill his opponent, despite having already won. It was then that Braum planted himself in front of the downed fighter, shield raised, and Tryndamere hacked against the impenetrable bulwark. When his rage finally subsided, Braum's good humor won him over, and before long the pair were laughing and drinking to each other's health. Some even say that it was Braum who first introduced Tryndamere to Ashe, the Avarosan Warmother.
Ashe , looking to strengthen her position with a political marriage, aimed to find someone who could face down the endless challengers for her hand, and for her rule. Seeing an opportunity in the barbarian, she pledged to take in his clan as Avarosans, if Tryndamere became her first and only bloodsworn.
Tryndamere accepted reluctantly. As he spent more time in Ashe's company, he began to believe that she was indeed the divine reincarnation of Avarosa herself. His rage found temperance in her thoughtful leadership. Though a political marriage, the attraction they felt for each other slowly blossomed into a true affection.
Even so, while serving as Ashe's champion, Tryndamere now looks to an uncertain future. The barbarian king can see war brewing all too clearly on the Freljord's horizon, yet he still thirsts for his own personal vengeance, and begins to wonder if his predestined fate might not be at his queen's side after all...
Some of the ancient demi-gods appear to have taken physical form once more, their cults of followers growing restless and aggressive. The Freljord itself is fractured and leaderless, and ancient horrors are lurking in the shadows, waiting for any opportunity to strike...
Freljord is located in the Northest part of Valoran bordering Demacia and Noxus . The currently well known locations encompassing Freljord are:
Other known locations in north Freljord are:
Other known locations in east Freljord are: Valley of Spines, Mourncrow Village, etc.
Other known locations in south Freljord are: Anivia's nest, etc.
At least some inhabitants in Bilgewater are of Freljordian descent, and occasionally one finds inverted Freljordian longships against the carved cliff faces. Freljordian fishermen constantly trade with the nation.
Demacia and the people that now make up Freljord have had a history of conflict, albeit nowhere near as grievous as the conflict between Noxus and the northern barbarian tribes. Some of the northern Demacian landscapes were part of the Freljord in the ancient time. Demacia had been quite protective of its territory as its northern homesteads were often targeted by barbarian raiding parties, to the point where a member of the Dauntless Vanguard , named Rodian, led an expedition that succeeded in burning down the city of Frostheld which was the former capital of Avarosan tribe . [ 8 ] The Winter's Claw has also frequently threatened the northern border of Demacia and has recently made an alliance with Sylas who promised to help them raid the rich land of the kingdom.
Freljord and Ionia have connections dating back to Ivern the Cruel who stumbled on the westerns shores of Ionia in search of power to defeat the Three Sisters. During the Noxian invasion of Ionia, figures like Udyr aided the Ionians of Hirana and Shojin. Both regions have frequent enough trade for characters like Taliyah to be able to travel to Freljord from the Ionian islands.
During the last years of Darkwill empire, Darius lead a campaign on the Freljord, however, around the same time the campaign started, Sejuani became the new Warmother of the Winter's Claw, she absorbed other tribes and attracted many powerful, often magical, warriors from all around the Freljord to join her tribe. This newfound force was able to fight off Noxian might which lead the campaign to drag on for years, ending in a bitter, icy stalemate. Darius narrowly survived assassination attempts, ambushes, and even capture by the vicious Winter's Claw. He was growing weary of endless wars of attrition, and returned to Noxus to demand a reconsolidation of the military. Now, years later, with a new government established in Noxus, Darius marchs to retake the Winterspike road built during the first campaign and faced the Winter's Claw once again. The current state of this campaign is unknown. Other tribes known to have fought noxians are Tryndamere's old clan and the Red Snows, both of which joined the Avarosans tribes.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Bilgewater is a haven for smugglers, marauders, and the unscrupulous, where fortunes are made and ambitions shattered in the blink of an eye. For those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, it is a city of new beginnings; no one on the twisted streets of Bilgewater cares about your past. It's a melting pot of cultures, races, and creeds, alive with activity at all hours.
While incredibly dangerous, Bilgewater is also ripe with opportunity, free from the shackles of government, regulation, and moral constraints. If you have the coin, almost anything can be purchased in Bilgewater, from outlawed hextech to the favor of local crime lords. Nevertheless, come daybreak, the unwary are found floating in the harbor, their purses empty and their throats slit.
Bilgewater is a port city like no other - home to monster hunters, dock-gangs, indigenous peoples, and traders from across the known world. Over time becoming a vital stop for trade ships traveling near the Serpent Isles . Almost anything can be purchased here, from outlawed hextech to the favor of local crime lords. There is no better place to seek fame and fortune, though death lurks in every alleyway, and the law is almost non-existent.
Burning Ship, Burning Tides.
I want everyone loyal to him brought to answer. I want the heads of his lieutenants mounted on my wall. Burn everything that bears his mark.
For many of those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, Bilgewater is a city of new beginnings. But for some, the past is something you can never escape. Tobias 'Twisted Fate' Foxtrot , hired by an unknown benefactor was tasked to steal and return a Crimson-Coil dagger from one of Captain Gangplank's warehouses located in Rat Town's Slaughter Docks. Easily avoiding the detection of the Jagged Hooks gang, Twisted Fate managed to infiltrate the warehouse, only to be confronted by his old partner: Malcolm Graves .
Filled with rage at his partner's betrayal, Graves started shooting at Tobias in an effort to settle the score with him. With Gangplank's warehouse burning and the pirate captain's thugs swarming, the resolution of Graves' and Twisted Fate's long-simmering feud threatened to engulf the entire city in flames. Informed of the destruction of his warehouse, Gangplank set off to catch both men in the act.
Both Graves and Twisted Fate tried to flee from the wrath of the Pirate King but with no success. Gangplank tortured them, then tried to publicly execute them in front of the whole city for their misbehavior. Hearing the news of this event, Sarah Fortune set her plan in motion to confront Gangplank for murdering her parents. Graves had managed to sneak away with one of Twisted Fate's cards, snatched during their previous fight around the city. Twisted Fate used the card to teleport out of his chains; both he and Graves nearly drowned in the resulting mayhem, but at that moment, Miss Fortune's plan hit its climax, and his ship, the Dead Pool, exploded. Gangplank was presumed dead in the blast.
Gangplank surviving the destruction of his ship.
In the aftermath of the destruction of the Dead Pool, Gangplank's spoils-filled warehouses were plundered, and those who followed the dread pirate forfeited their allegiance. A war started with the spread of three words: Gangplank is dead . Miss Fortune took the opportunity to purge the city of anyone that was loyal to the dreaded pirate.
Despite receiving horrific injuries in the explosion, Gangplank survived. Having lost everything from the attack, Gangplank sought help from his first love Illaoi , who deemed him worthy of life in the eyes of Nagakabouros. Sporting a multitude of fresh scars, and with a newly crafted metal arm to replace his amputated limb, he is now determined to rebuild his strength, reclaim what he sees as rightfully his, and ruthlessly punish all those who turned against him.
With the fall of Gangplank, Bilgewater descended into chaos as old rivalries were settled in blood and gang warfare threatened to tear the city apart. Miss Fortune , the leading figure of this uprising, systematically removed all of Gangplank's former or continuing allies from any place of power, so as to assure her spot as the ruler of Bilgewater. During one of her excursions, she was stopped by Illaoi , who warned Fortune to stop her foolish behavior and prepare for the coming Harrowing .
As a fisherman and a warrior of the Freljord , Olaf desired worthy battles and a glorious death to avert an old curse. The Krakenwyrm, one of his monstrous kills during his stay in Bilgewater, was sold to one of many Bilgewater's slaughter docks.
Amidst the constant chaos of the city streets, Lucian prepared for the Harrowing's arrival.
The Harrowing comes to Bilgewater (by Riot Artist Patrick Faulwetter )
The next evening, the Harrowing arrived in Bilgewater in an attempt to purge and rip the souls out of everyone within. Undead spirits flew across the night sky and shrouded the city in a dark mist of damned shrieking souls of the Shadow Isles . People fled, cowered, or prayed to the Bearded Lady for the The Black Mist not to take them. With each citizen and living thing killed, a new spirit arose. Even the carcass of the Krakenwyrm arose, seemingly wanting to finish its fight with its slayer.
During all this, Thresh sought out new victims and souls for his collection. Unbeknownst to him, he was being hunted down by Lucian . Enraged by the presence of his wife's killer, Lucian swore to defeat the monster and finally rid the world of its torment. In the end, Thresh managed to escape his pursuer after a short and tense battle. As a parting gift of further torment, Thresh had conveyed that the soul of his wife, Senna, was still trapped inside his lantern. An unsettled Lucian would continue his purge of the undead while also trying to save the soul of his dead wife.
Olaf , Lucian , and Miss Fortune ended up meeting one another in a brawl against the undead. Remembering the advice Illaoi gave her, Miss Fortune proposed that they head towards the Temple of Nagakabouros to seek out the help of its priestess. But while traversing the Butcher's Bridge , they were confronted at the temple's entrance by Hecarim . Separated and barely escaping with their lives, they managed to get inside the temple, where some of the surviving citizens prayed with Illaoi for Nagakabouros' salvation.
As the Black Mist and the undead army poured into the temple, Illaoi fended off the onslaught with the power of her god, and freed Bilgewater from threat of the Harrowing.
Despite its losses, the city lived on. Miss Fortune and Lucian, each given a new purpose, parted ways and wished each other luck. After Olaf's second encounter with the undead Krakenwyrm, he also departed Bilgewater, seeking out new challenges and worthy battles.
Due to the power vacuum left by Gangplank's death, the Corsair's Conclave was formed. It was a truce between the city's four strongest crews led by Captain Bragg, Sir Petyr Harker, Crow and Captain Fortune .
Six months after the events of Burning Tides, considering Fortune's machinations against Gangplank, the other 3 captains come to the conclusion that Fortune is the only "wild card" in the truce. They decide to temporarily redistribute half of her men to their gangs and take her guns.
Trying to maintain her forces though a peaceful deal, Miss Fortune visits Petyr Harker's house, trying to seduce him into voting in her favor, arguing that Bragg and Crow are old allies and would turn against Harker soon enough. Her tentative attempt fails, and Petyr attacks Fortune with her own guns.
Forced to retreat, Miss Fortune secretly calls another parley in MacGregan's Killhouse on the Slaughter Docks. Disguised as the doorman taking the captains' guns, Miss Forturne manages to kill the rest of the Corsair's Conclave and decides to rule Bilgewater alone.
Miss Fortune continues to try to unite the gangs under rule, but many continue to resist or sympathize with Gangplank. One evening, her mansion attacked by the Black Mist, fearing another Harrowing is imminent, she contacts Illaoi for help. Meanwhile, Illaoi and her Buhru warrior track down Pyke and plan to put and end to his killings, but when he is found worthy of Nagakaborous' test, Illaoi is left questioning her choices. She soon encounters Braum, after her people fished him from bay, when he comes seeking the Waters of Life from the Shadow Isles to cure his people.
They are both summoned by Fortune to discuss the return of the Black Mist, with Illaoi and Braum agreeing to investigate Grey Harbor. Shortly Yasuo and Ahri arrive from Ionia, seeking more info about the Vesani. They are soon informed about a tip in one of the black markets and learn that a member of the Jagged Hooks, Gangplank's gang, has recently purchased a Vesani sunstone and was headed into Grey Harbor. Ahri sneaks off to find the sunstone herself, but Yasuo pursues her. He encounters Illaoi and Braum as they fight mistwalkers near the entrance of Grey Harbor and agree to venture in together.
They find the Jagged Hooks and interrogate them, learning that Ahri is following Gangplank, who now has the sunstone as well as other Buhru artifacts that can manipulate the Black Mist, to the Shadow Isles. The group investigates a nearby Buhru temple and vanquish the naga who have taken residence and purify the temple, they learn from a Buhru that Gangplank raided the temple and stole the artifacts. They reveal their findings to Miss Fortune, who is furious that her nemesis is still alive, but agrees to help them reach the Shadow Isles. They set sail after rallying her crew.
Along the way, they are attacked by a sea monster, but are saved by Pyke, who reveals that Nagakaborous has quieted the voices in his head and wants to join them, as Gangplank is on his list. On the Shadow Isles, they track Ahri to a grove, after finding her cloak, but are attacked by Maokai. Ahri intervenes and shares the history of the isles from Maokai's memories. Maokai reveals that Gangplank has partnered with Thresh to awaken the Ruined King. After returning Maokai to strength, the group attacks Thresh's fortress, inside they find Gangplank's sunstone. They manage to defeat the Chain Warden, but not before Gangplank awakens Viego.
Viego possesses Gangplank and uses him to attack the heroes, while he heads to Bilgewater to search for his queen. They manage to defeat Gangplank and free him Viego's influence, taking him with them as their prisoner. Ahri discovers Viego's true memories through the lingering Black Mist on Gangplank and learns that his love was not as pure as he made it out to be. Gangplank gives Illaoi his necklace, a Buhru artifact that can control the mist, to aid in their battle against Viego but it has become corrupted during his possession. They manage to catch up to Viego, but he maroons them on a nearby island. As Fortune's gang repairs their ship, Yasuo confronts his past when the magic of the island manifests his greatest regrets.
They beat Viego to Bilgewater and Illaoi asks the Buhru to help fix the necklace, while others help fortify the city for coming Harrowing. The group returns to the Shadow Isles to search for a hidden Buhru Forge to cleanse the necklace and are directed to its location by Necrit, a former advisor of Viego, who reveals it lays within the Vesani Vault. Inside the vault, Ahri learns more about her people and how they used their sunstones to channel their powers of memories and emotions. Ahri then decides to use Gangplank's sunstone to house Viego's memories, in order to weaken him, at the expense of the Vesani memories that remained in the vault.
The group summons Nagakaborous within the forge to cleanse their necklace and are tested by her avatar. After besting her, the Mother Serpent cleanses the amulet and they return for the final battle. Along the way, Illaoi reveals that she aided Gangplank's recovery because Nagakaborous found him worthy, but Fortune is focused on wanting revenge. They return to Bilgewater and find the Buhru already fighting Viego, they join the battle and weaken him with the memory-empowered sunstone and Fortune unleashes the amulet against him. She nearly falls to his corruption, but is pulled back and overpowers him, trapping him within the amulet. After the battle, Fortune learns that Gangplank has escaped and goes to pursue her nemesis, but entrusts Illaoi to hide the amulet. The remaining members celebrate their victory, before heading off on their own paths.
Surrounded by treacherous straits and towering cliffs, Bilgewater Bay is as dangerous as those who call it home. Visitors are often seduced by seemingly limitless opportunity, and become permanent residents—realizing that the longer they stay, the more they can exploit others for power and wealth.
Buhru Temple
The isle of Buhru are one of the isles of the Serpent Isles island chain,. [ 2 ] Here battle isn't considered a test of strength but of will. [ 3 ] These Isles are the location from which the religion of Nagakabouros and its priestess originate from.
Bilgewater is a sea-monster-hunting crime haven, a home to a wide variety of denizens seeking adventure, fortune or clandestine careers. While the pirate-friendly town has little respect for the laws of other nations, they have their ports open for people from all the world's corners.
At least some inhabitants in Bilgewater are of Freljordian descent, and occasionally one finds inverted Freljordian longships against the carved cliff faces. Freljordian fishermen constantly trade with the nation.
During Noxus' hostilities on Ionian soil, many pirates from Bilgewater sailed to the island nation. For years they ruthlessly pillaged the settlements along the island's coastlines and fought naval battles with Ionian vessels when engaged. Even after the war, many Ionians still feel deep enmity towards Bilgewater due to its denizens' actions.
Ixtali culture is part of an older great westward diaspora that gave the rise of civilizations such as the Buhru of the Serpent Isles . After its isolation from the rest of the world and the formation of Bilgewater, a lot of pirates and adventure seekers would attempt to trek into the unforgiving jungle landscape in search of ancient treasure, only to never be heard from again (due to the wildlife, or the Ixtali defending their borders). One of the group of people that settled the regions around Ixtal are the riverfolk of the Serpentine River .
Many gamblers and thieves from Bilgewater visit the gambling parlors in Mudtown . Twisted Fate has gained his gambling reputation in Mudtown as the Card Master.
Thanks to Gangplank's marauding against Noxian warfleets, Bilgewater and Noxus are on shaky terms with one another. At some point Gangplank managed to steal the Leviathan , Swain's personal warship, earning the personal enmity of Noxus's Grand General. After Gangplank's fall from power, it is unknown if relations between Bilgewater and Noxus have improved. However, Bilgerat pirates on occasion will assist the Noxian military, should they see the endeavor profitable. It is also said that Byrne, one of Miss Fortune's mans who died during the events of Burning Tides, was the terror of the Noxian coast, but it is unknow if those affirmations were true.
As Runeterra's biggest black market, Bilgewater trades all manner of illicit hextech pilfered from Piltover. The Sun Gates allowed Bilgewater to prosper as a haven for pirates and reavers who prey on ships traveling to and from Piltover.
The Blue Flame Isles are closer to the Shadow Isles than anywhere else, and the first to be enveloped by the yearly Harrowing.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
The empire of Shurima was once a thriving civilization that spanned a vast desert. After an era of growth and prosperity, the fall of its gleaming capital left the empire in ruins. Over millennia, tales of Shurima's glorious city became myth and religion among the descendants of the scattered survivors.
Most of the nomadic inhabitants of Shurima search for basic sustenance in an unforgiving land. Some defend small outposts built around a few oases. Others hunt buried riches among the ruins of the fallen empire, or obtain mercenary work, taking coin for their deeds before disappearing back into the sands. Now, the tribes are stirred by whispers from the heart of the desert: the city of Shurima has risen again.
Shurima was once a powerful empire that spanned the farthest reaches of the vast southern continent . After an era of expansion and prosperity, its last emperor was betrayed by his closest friend , and the empire fell to ruin. Its gleaming capital was all but destroyed in an earth-shaking cataclysm and the empire was left in ruins, its people scattered and its mighty cities devoured by the sand. Now Shurima is a barren wasteland, an unforgiving desert where only the strongest survive and its people cling to the few remaining oases and strips of fertile land around the coast.
In the millennia since Shurima's fall, tales of its glorious capital and gleaming sun disc became little more than myths and debased religions among the descendants of the empire's few survivors. Most of Shurima's inhabitants now dwell in small tribal outposts clustered near water or built upon the bones of ancient cities, venerating the glories of the past. Some hunt buried riches among the ruins of the fallen empire or earn a living as sellswords , warriors for hire who fight for rich paymasters before disappearing into the sands. Others try to forget the past, looking to the future and nations across the ocean as partners in trade.
Yet the ancient myths of Shurima do not rest easy and are stirring once more. Whispering winds from the heart of the desert speak of mighty cities rising from the earth, of a golden warrior marching at the head of an army of sand . Rumors spread of ancient heroes reborn, of a war between gods that will shake the very foundations of the world.
The city of Shurima has risen, and nothing will ever be the same. [ 1 ]
After being granted knowledge by the Targonians , the ancient Shurimans built a Sun Disc in Nerimazeth. The prototype failed for unknown reasons, but, with the help of Ixtal mages, a new Sun Disc is built on what would become the capital of the Shuriman empire. After its construction Setaka becomes one of the first Ascended, and with the Chalicar , a weapon forged by cosmic forces and brought from the celestial realm, she would lead the Ascended host to centuries of conquest across the continent, with Ixtal being one of the first independent nations to join the Shuriman empire.
The Sun Disc was ancient long before the pinnacle of the Shuriman Empire. [ 2 ] Nasus and Renekton knew of its power, and used it to ascend in order to face a dire threat from mysterious beings. [ 3 ]
In that moment, Icathia's fate was sealed, the Void was summoned, destroying the Shuriman and Icathian armies together with Setaka the Warrior-queen of the Ascended host. Few survived the event and the war that would follow would be the greatest fought by Shurima, leaving the entire region of Icathia as a barren wasteland.
Afraid of the power of the Void, the Ixtal mages used their elemental magic to hide Ixaocan in the wildness, isolating themselves from the outside world as the Ascended fought to seal the Void rifts.
In the end, Shurima was victorious, as the champion Horok used his Nether Blade to destroy the greatest of the Voidborn. However, it came at a great cost, and the horrors seen in those battles would forever afflict the minds of the surviving Ascended.
Ta'anari proposed that the next wielder of the Chalicar should be Sivunas Alahair, the Bringer of Rains, one of Azir's remaining descendants. Xuuyan disagreed and tried to take the Chalicar by force; Ta'anari was forced to kill him. The other Ascended and darkin present also disagreed with his plan, so with the aid of Myisha , he used the Chalicar to funnel Myisha's powers and his own to release a huge burst of moonlight.
Shabaka and Shabake were vaporized instantly, and Syphax, Zigantus and Enakai followed a few moments later. Ta'anari's own Ascension was reverted and he was human once again, though blinded by the process. Myisha later cut his heart out, killing him. Naganeka, Valeeva and Cebotaru managed to escape, still Ascended.
Ta'anari's three warrior former-queens - Teushpa, Sulpae and Idri-Mi - were responsible for having their weaponsmiths seal away the Darkin, under Myisha's tutelage.
Cassiopeia hiring Sivir for an expedition into the Shuriman desert
"The tragic fall of Shurima was nothing compared to the tragedy of its rise from the grave.
In a market at the edge of a desert. A stranger appears. Cassiopeia , a noblewoman from Noxus looking to hire a guide to take her to the fabled lost city. But not just any guide, she hires a owner of a legendary blade, the mercenary called Sivir . Sivir gathers her band of sell-swords and sets out into the desert to find the very bones of Shurima.
Five days beneath the broiling sun a scout spots towers juddering upwards and a stairway leading underground. They climb down, into the darkness.
Ancient treasures gleam in the torch-light, even Sivir is astonished at the grandeur of the ruins. Her men head deeper in only to stumble into traps and be eviscerated. Sivir is stunned with horror, but Cassiopeia does not flinch. She sees only the statue of a huge serpent silently guarding the door to the tomb of the Emperors and smiles.
The ancient weapon is a key. Cassiopeia betrays Sivir. She picks up Sivir's blade, puts it into the lock. The guardian's curse is triggered. The stone serpent comes alive, impales Cassiopeia in its jaws - the venom sears her flesh like acid.
The Tomb door opens. Renekton emerges, the brother I loved and locked away, twisted beyond insanity, followed by Xerath , an architect of his torment. My failure is complete.
Sivir drags herself away, life blood flooding from her wound and then succumbs to darkness... "
Sivir in the Oasis of the Dawn
Ascended Azir
"As Sivir lies betrayed and bleeding, something incredible occurs. For though she does not know it, Sivir is the last in the bloodline of Azir , Shurima's lost emperor. And as her blood soaks into the ancient sands, a deep magic sparks to life. Resurrection!
First Azir's mind, then his body. Snatched back from oblivion to be reborn. Then he sees Sivir, wonders at her face, he sees himself in this daughter of Shurima. In that moment, he has no thought of empires or rituals. He only knows: she needs his help.
He must take her to the Oasis of the Dawn - the Mother of Life. He smells the waters - smells of life. He prays he is in time. He does not dream that he, Shurima's greatest emperor, can at long last earn his Ascension and bring back his broken city. He dares not dream that if he can save her...Azir can save them all."
Shurima's people return to their ancestral home
Shurima is resurrected, and Runeterra 's future is forever altered. Xerath and Renekton have been unleashed from the Tomb of the Emperors. Nasus , haunted by his brother's heroic sacrifice, is relentlessly pursued by Renekton in his mad thirst for vengeance. Bristling with power and resentment, Xerath plots to reforge Valoran in the fires of revolution. The serpent's curse is the terrible price of Cassiopeia's ambition, but it also promises a power she never imagined. Azir , Ascended ruler of a fallen civilization, envisions a new Shuriman empire, while his descendant Sivir , ever the mercenary, looks to turn the situation to her advantage. Shurima is a land of mystery... but some mysteries refuse to remain buried. [ 6 ]
Taliyah, the Stoneweaver
Having returned to Shurima after hearing word of the empire's restoration, Taliyah made her way from the coastal city of Bel'Zhun around the borders of the Sai, heading to Kenethet and then Vekaura on her journey to the capital. On the way she found a fatally wounded Sivir, and brought her to safety within the city's borders. Nasus , who had been searching for the remnants of the Emperor's lineage since Azir's return, also found his way to Vekaura, but before he could meet his intended target Xerath assaulted the city with a force of mind controlled warriors from scattered tribes, and his own incredible power.
As Xerath bombarded the city and his soldiers laid waste to its inhabitants, Nasus finally found what he was looking for in Sivir and her savior Taliyah. He told Sivir of her importance; with her blood having restored Shurima, she would likely be instrumental to the nation's future, but Sivir had never cared for that ancient legacy and told Nasus she wanted no part in it. After brief words between the Ascended warrior, the mercenary and the stone mage, Nasus gave Sivir a magical pendant to keep herself concealed from Xerath as they escaped the city before going to face the powerful magus himself. Xerath had come to end Azir's lineage completely, and the two clashed in a battle the likes of which Shurima had not seen in ages. Though Nasus was able to stand against Xerath for a while, it did not last, and he was felled by his foe's immense magical power, but Xerath did not want Nasus to die just yet. He had his enemy's death planned out, and it was Renekton who would kill Nasus. Knowing a confrontation between the brothers was inevitable, and knowing how durable Nasus was, Xerath brought down the buildings of Verauka upon the curator's head, burying him completely before departing.
Thanks to the magic of Taliyah many of the city's denizens survived; sheltered by shields of woven stone. Nasus was among them, and while grateful for her help, he had done his job. Sivir was safe for now, and he looked to the future, hoping against hope that he could save Renekton from his insanity, so that the two of them could defeat Xerath together.
Shurima is an arid territory that covers most of the southern continent, also called Shurima. Many men have gone mad beneath the glare of the Shuriman sun, the source of the power of the Ascended.. It is also the location of the newly resurrected Shuriman Empire, a vast civilization that bloomed millennia ago and is now rising again. A few of the cities on its northern coast are Noxian territory.
The current well known locations encompassing Shurima are:
Fashioned under the guidance of the Targonians , the great Sun Disc brought the favor of divine, celestial powers to Shurima. Once it was complete, it is said the waters of life flowed through the canyons surrounding the city, bringing life to the desert. For eons, the sun worshippers of Shurima owed their society's prosperity to the incredible power of the sun. Thanks to the prodigious disk that hovered above the capital city, ancient Shurimans could wield raw celestial magic to make their land more bountiful. The Sun Disc was the center of all Shuriman culture; it permeated every aspect, from religion to icons to dress and so on.
An oasis in the desert, it fell to ruins after Azir's failed Ascension , but has risen again since the emperor was revived by Sivir's blood. In its prime, it was the center of Shuriman society. Because of its immense importance as the center of trade and culture of the empire, many cultural, educational centers and markets bringing goods from all over the Empire sprung up. It also housed special burial grounds for the most influential of its citizens, such as The Tomb of the Emperors . The city is divided by ringed districts and city levels. The city's wealthiest citizens lived in the top rings of the city, while middle and lower classes (with slaves) lived mostly in settlements built on the rocky cliff sides of the outer and lower rings. The Palace of Ten Thousand Pillars, Scholar's Palace, Temple of the Sun and Oasis of the Dawn are located at the center of the city. The most important road in the city was the Emperor's Way . The city was built around the ancient Sun Disc that floats above The Circle of Ascension and the city itself. The city also had the most advanced irrigation system of its time, seemingly unsurpassed until recently. Floating gardens decorated with palms and other flora protected its many terraces from the burning sun.
The Great Sai, or Shuriman Wastes is a large desert spanning most of east, south, and west Shurima. The fallen empire has littered the dunes with ruins.
Stretching out for hundreds of miles, the Endless Plain is a desolate wasteland that has claimed countless lives over the centuries. Few who attempt to cross it are ever seen again—if the relentless, burning heat and lack of water doesn't kill them, the predators and savage raiders that emerge under the cover of darkness likely will.
A mysterious creature can be found wandering the desert. Skarner defends the entrance to a realm deep beneath the Shuriman wastes; what he protects, no one knows. Buried tombs also hold ancient secrets; Amumu rose from such a tomb, and in another, Ezreal claimed an Ascended artifact of incredible mystical power.
Kenethet , Vekaura , Nerimazeth , Zuretta , Astrologer's Tower, and the Zoantha Cascade are located in this desert wasteland.
Other known locations in north Shurima are: Parnesa, Odyn Valley, Zuretta , etc.
Other known locations in east Shurima are: The Great Sai , Astrologer's Tower, etc.
Other known locations in south Shurima are: The Great Sai , Antathir , Bai-Zhek, Saabara, Old Zuretta, etc.
Other known locations of west Shurima are: The Great Sai , Amakra , The Sun Disc , etc.
Surrounded around the Shuriman Continent are several clans of Brackern , including clans in the Shuriman desert.
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.
Desert goats that travel in herds.
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for Rammus .
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.
Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.
During ancient times, Ixtal was one of the first nations to join the Shuriman Empire. After the fall of Icathia , the Ixtali started to distance themselves from the Empire, completely isolating themselves by the time of the Darkin War and the later Rune Wars .
A number of otherwise independent ports and cities in northern Shurima have voluntarily assimilated into Noxus. The original inhabitants of these settlements live in relative peace, seeing Noxian trade taxes as a price worth paying for military protection from raiders. By hiring Shuriman scavengers for a pittance and selling the artifacts they found to the occupying Noxians, some unscrupulous merchants grew very rich, very fast.
Azir has now resurrected the ancient capital and has made his mission to revive the old Empire as well. Time will only tell as to what political relations Shurima and Noxus will have in this new political landscape.
Shuriman, mostly northern coastal cities, often trade with Piltovers wealthy clans. Clan Medarda had trade connections across multiple political connections with Shuriman city rulers across the clans history. Clan Ferros was the first Piltover clan to harvest brackern crystals for the creation of Hextech devices.
Since its inception Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disc, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians.
During the Darkin War, Targonian Aspects aided Shurimans in both defeating and imprisoning the warring darkin.
During ancient times Zaun, or Kha'zhun, was an important trading port of the Empire. During the millennia and centuries after the Empires fall it slowly distanced itself politically and socially from the rest of Shurima. However Zaunites still follow some of their old Shuriman beliefs such as the worship of Janna , an old wind spirit originating from Shurima.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Like any place of myth, Mount Targon is a beacon to dreamers, madmen and questors of adventure. A mountainous and sparsely inhabited region to the west of Shurima , Targon boasts the tallest peak in Runeterra . Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is all but impossible to reach, save by the most determined pilgrims, chasing some soul-deep yearning to reach its summit. Those hardy few who survive the arduous journey to the foot of the titanic mountain find a sky shimmering with celestial bodies; the sun and moons, but also constellations, planets, fiery comets that streak the darkness, and auspicious arrangements of stars. They return haunted and empty, or changed beyond all recognition. The people living at the mountain's base believe these to be aspects of long-vanished stellar beings, creatures powerful and ancient on a scale beyond human comprehension. [ 1 ] However, Mount Targon is simply a way into the celestial realm , and it would be wrong to attribute much in the way of mortal sensibilities, morals or concerns to what lies beyond the mountain. [ 2 ]
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra , a towering peak of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker. Many legends cling to Mount Targon, and, like any place of myth, it is a beacon to dreamers, madmen and questors of adventure. Some of these brave souls attempt to scale the impossible mountain, perhaps seeking wisdom or enlightenment, perhaps chasing glory or some soul-deep yearning to witness its summit. The ascent is all but impossible, and those hardy few who somehow survive to reach the top almost never speak of what they have seen. Some return with a haunted, empty look in their eyes, others changed beyond all recognition, imbued by an aspect of unearthly, inhuman power with a destiny few mortals can comprehend.
The being known as Aurelion Sol was born in the first breath of creation, and he then roamed the physical realm , seeking to fill this canvas of incalculable breadth with marvels which would delight all who witnessed them.
Much later, around one of the first stars he had created, he discovered a world not made by him orbiting it. The Aspects , who seemed unusually invested in it, implored him to come closer. There was life here, and magic, and fledgling civilizations that cried out for guidance. Flattered, Aurelion Sol descended in the form of a dragon from the stars. The Targonians named him for the sun he had gifted them, and the Aspects commanded them to offer something in return. The mortals climbed to the peak of their tallest mountain, and presented him with a splendorous crown, crafted with careful and cunning magic, and etched with the inscrutable patterns of the celestial realm.
But it was no gift at all. The crown clamped in place too tightly to remove, and his knowledge of the sun began to drain through it, to be examined by mortals. Worse still, he was hurled back into the heavens, and prevented from getting any closer to that world. The Aspects of Targon set the mortals to construct a great Sun Disc . With this, they channeled his celestial power to raise up immortal god-warriors , for some future conflict.
Since its inception, Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disc, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians. At one point, Targon became a nation-state of the greater empire. The Targonian Aspects may have joined the empire in the war against the Void after the fall of Icathia . Some time after the empire was destroyed, the nation collapsed, and Targon once more withdrew.
Myisha , host of the Aspect of Twilight, leads panther Ascended Ta'anari to Nasus , who reveals the location of the Chalicar of Setaka, with which Ta'anari hopes to stop the civil war between Ascended. Ta'anari calls for a gathering of the Ascended. Enakai (Tiger), Syphax (Chameleon), Zigantus (Bull), Xuuyan (Turtle), Shabaka and Shabak (Raven twins), Valeeva (Unknown), Cebotaru (Wolf), and Naganeka (Snake) come to this gathering.
Ta'anari proposes that the next wielder of the Chalicar be recognised as Sivunas Alahair, one of Azir's remaining descendants. Xuuyan disagrees and tries to take the Chalicar by force. Ta'anari is forced to slay him by using Riftwalk . The other Darkin disagree with uniting. Ta'anari, with the aid of Myisha , uses the Chalicar to heal himself, and release an empowered form of Moonfalling which takes away the Ascended's forms and power.
Shabaka and Shabake arevaporized instantly by the Moonfall, with Syphax, Zigantus and Enakai dying a few moments later. Ta'anari ascension is also reverted. Myisha later removes his heart, killing him. Naganeka, Valeeva and Cebotaru manage to escape alive. Ta'anari's three warrior queens - Teushpa, Sulpae and Idri-Mi - are made responsible for having weapons to seal away the Darkin, with Myisha's tutelage.
Later, Myisha gives the mortals the knowledge to trap the remaining Darkin, while the newly reborn Aspect of War unites many in fighting back. The Darkin threats are eventually neutralized.
Over a millenia ago, as Zoe of the Lunari skips away from her studies to find something more fun to do, she is noticed by the Targonian Aspect of Twilight. It observes as the young girl mocks the priests chasing her. An hour later, she finds herself cornered by her angry teachers. The Aspect summons six objects: a bag of golden coins, a sword, a completed study book, a devotion rug, a silk rope, and a toy ball. Five of these objects would help her solve her problem. Zoe chooses the sixth option, kicking the ball and making it bounce between the priests. Delighted, the Aspect opens a portal to the apex of Mount Targon. Zoe dives into it , merging with the Aspect. Following this, Zoe travels to dimensions at the edge of Targon's control, playing within realities beyond mortal comprehension.
Conflicts arise between the two religious organizations of the region. The Solari defeat the Lunari and become the dominant group while condemning those who oppose them as heretics, hunting them down and destroying the evidence of their existence. The Lunari flee into hiding.
Diana , an outcast among the Solari acolytes who had always questioned their belief that the Sun is the only source of light, decides to ascend the mountain. Her concerned lover Leona follows to the peak, where they are chosen as the mortal hosts of the Aspects of the Sun ( Leona ) and the Moon ( Diana ). Frustrated with each other's choices on how to use their power, Diana almost kills Leona. Fearful of losing herself to the Aspect's power, Diana flees down the mountain to confront the Solari priests. They condemn her as a heretic, enraging Diana and the Aspect within, and she kills many priests and their guardians. She then flees, hoping to find her purpose. Meanwhile, Leona swears to find Diana, to preserve the dominance of the Solari, but also to help her keep her Aspect under control.
A few years later, the Rakkor warriors Atreus and his friend Pylas climb Mount Targon after Leona denies their pleas to fight invading barbarians. Atreus is the only one who survives the climb, becoming one with the Aspect of War, Pantheon. However, it judges him unworthy to fulfil its purposes and takes control of his body, relegating Atreus to the back of his own mind. Eventually, Pantheon was goaded into battle by the Darkin Aatrox . Against all expectations, Aatrox's blade kills Pantheon with a shattering blow, stars in the sky fading as it dies. Atreus awakes impaled upon Aatrox's blade, and spits in the darkin's face. Aatrox leaves the man to die. Atreus is nursed back to health by Pylas' widow, Iula. He realises that it was Aatrox who had sent the barbarians into Targon, and that mortals are seen as mere pawns in the games of higher powers. Atreus swears to oppose the greater powers that threaten the world as the Pantheon reborn.
Taric , a Demacia n exile, is sentenced to endure 'the Crown of Stone', after a ceremony that demanded a dishonored soldier ascend Mount Targon, known to all as a death sentence, as few mortals had ever survived the climb. And while the Crown of Stone was traditionally used by the dishonored to simply flee Demacia and make a new life in exile, Taric decided to actually atone for his mistake and set out for the towering spire of Mount Targon. The ascent nearly claimed him, body and soul, numerous times, but Taric pushed past the tests inflicted upon him by the mountain. As he approached the summit, Taric was challenged by a seemingly unending myriad of conflicting realities, each warped existence offering a new, horrifying vision, but he completed all of his trials. 'The Protector' was impressed by Taric's steadfast resolve, the otherworldly being deemed the fallen Demacian hero a worthy avatar, imbuing him with its ethereal powers. The Protector spoke of the truths Taric had known his entire life, and of the mantle that he had unknowingly been preparing for with every decision that brought him to the top of the mountain. As the Protector's whispers faded, Taric received a final warning: He would stand as the Shield of Valoran, but crashing against him would be a wave of howling madness, an ocean of gnashing teeth intent on consuming all, a squalid horror born of the Void . Reborn with power and purpose, Taric gladly accepted the seemingly impossible challenge and now dedicates himself to his sworn duty - as the steadfast guardian of an entire world.
Returning home after millennia, Zoe has aged barely a year. Though Runeterra has changed little from her perspective, she arrives full of teenage curiosity for humans and her fellow aspects.
Aphelios and his sister Alune .
The fortress accepted only one occupant, gifted in magic, each time it appeared. This time it would be Alune , her orbit guiding her to the temple. Aphelios, her twin brother, usually asking for nothing, requested to attend the event.
But somehow, the Lunari had been discovered even as the celestial cycles turned in their favor. An army of Solari descended upon them. All seemed lost, the Solari purging the Lunari heresy with fire and steel. Even Aphelios was beaten, his moonstone blades shattered on the ground.
But as the battle raged, Alune reached the heart of the temple. From inside, amplified by the temple's focusing power, Alune was able to project her magic anywhere, so long as it found a focus—like the noctum poison coursing through Aphelios' veins. Aphelios's skill and Alune's magic converged. With a whisper, she pushed magic into his hands—a replacement for his blades solidifying into moonstone.
Those Solari would not live to see the sun again.
As her power flared, Alune pushed the temple, and herself within, back into the spirit realm where it would remain safe from the Solari.
Aphelios would become a conduit for the moon's power, constantly in pain due to the noctum poison. Alune would live alone, isolated in her fortress, but she would guide her brother.
To protect the survivors of the attack who retreated back into the shadows of the mountain, Aphelios' training as an assassin has been given reach by Alune's magic—his blades now an arsenal of mystical weapons, perfected by Alune over the course of many missions together.
Now that the power balance of Targon is shifting, and the Solari know the Lunari still endure, Aphelios and Alune are needed more than ever.
Pantheon awaiting Aurelion Sol's arrival
When witnessing the rise and fall of the God-Warriors , Aurelion Sol slowly accepted his fate. But soon after, the world was ravaged by a succession of sorcerous catastrophes, and Aurelion Sol finally knew that Targon and the hated Aspects were all but defenseless. As he cautiously circled back, he realized the magic that bound him was weakening. Flecks of gold began to fall from his crown, each one blazing across the skies like a comet.
Driven by the tantalizing possibilities of freedom and revenge, Aurelion Sol now regards Runeterra with simmering, eternal fury. Surely, it is here, upon this world, that the cosmic balance will tip in his favor once more—and with it, the universe itself shall bear witness to the fate of those who dare steal the power of a star forger.
Mount Targon is a nation in the Western part of the Shuriman Continent and boarders with Shurima . The currently well known locations encompassing Mount Targon are:
Mount Targon is a mountain found in the Western part of the Shuriman Continent and borders with Shurima . Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker. It is highest and mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. It is the site of many sacred pilgrimages.
Mount Targon can be broken into distinct regions, as delineated by patterns in the rock and a marked increase in hazardous weather conditions, difficulty of the climb, and increased death rate. The upper levels of the mountain expand and contract as if the land itself were alive, making it impossible to map a reliable pathway to the top. Each ascent is different, as the mountain magically stretches–some climbs can last for months while others reach the peak in just a day. Its rocky heights have been twisted and elongated, some say drawn upward, by powers beyond mortal comprehension.
Living in the shadow of cyclopean structures of monumental scale, the Rakkor believe they were called to the mountain by mysterious powers. Some believe that the patterns in the rock were once a map of the realms beyond the heavens. Others say the markings warn of a day when a great war will ravage the lands and set brother against brother. Despite such speculation, the true origin and purpose of these patterns in the rock remains a mystery.
Known troughout Runeterra as the City of Gold and Silver. Targon Prime is a realm beyond Runeterra where celestial beings known as Aspects and mythical creatures of the stars resides. Each generation or so, an Aspect will descend from Targon Prime to imbue these mortals on which they deemed worthy to become their vessel. It is a vast realm bathed in golden light at day and sparkling stars at night. Currently Kayle set out for this realm to know if what really happened to their mother Mihira. Sometimes the reason for these Targonian Ascended's disappearances can be linked to Targon Prime on which deceased aspect vessels are now a part of the great council planning to build an army of powerful human-celestial mieldings against the unknowable nothingness .
Mount Targon hosts an assortment of hardy creatures; for instance: Bolors, Erboks, Ibiks, Tamu, etc.
Animals of the mountain are uniquely primed to survive under the coldest weather conditions, with thick layers of fat and wooly furs to insulate from bitter winds and snow. Cloven hooves provide support on steep slopes and narrow footholds, while hooked claws easily latch onto ice.
The bolor are large quadrupedal avian carnivores. Standing at the height of two average humans (three if placed standing upwards), these creatures sport a thick feathery coat that protects them from the harsh environments of Mount Targon as well as camouflage themselves in the snowy environment. These feathers are mostly white with brown ones primarily located around the head and neck areas. Their talons and beaks are of a dark blue color and used for climbing and hunting.
Famous for the trilling cry it emits before swooping for a kill, the predatory bolor moves in long, gliding leaps along thermal currents with aerodynamic feathered limbs, and loves to prey on stray tamu.
The erbok are large quadrupedal mammalian herbivores. Unique to the lands surrounding Mount Targon, these species of mountain goat stand at the height of two average humans. These creatures sport thick coats that protect them from the harsh environments of the mountain. The mane of the cave-dwelling erbok is coated in a thick oil that the Rakkor use to cover their outer garments, making them waterproof. Their mane and their tail are of a tan colour while the softer coat on the rest of their body is of a brighter shade of tan. They have large hooves and a bone-plate that extends to form a horn. The erbok use the bone-plate on their head in territorial duels over mountain caves.
Zoe's scarf is knitted from the wool of an Erbok.
The ibik is a rare solitary quadrupedal mammalian herbivores that dwell in the lower plains of Mount Targon. Standing at the height of three average humans (five if placed standing upwards), these creatures are some of the largest found at the slopes of the mountain. During the winter months, the ibik is often covered by snowfall as it hibernates, and its rough, slate-colored skin and fur help disguise it amongst the boulders. They have large slanted horns used to protect themselves against other predators. Most adult ibik have numerous scars on their backs due to surviving predatory attacks from creatures such as the bolor.
Targonians use this creature for their milk. Its sweet fatty milk is a delicacy to the Rakkor.
The embodiment of wispy firelight, the Lightcharger can be seen soaring across the skies of Targon as dusk turns to night. It bathes in the moon's most radiant glow, galloping nobly from east to west and protecting the world from the eternal darkness.
Stellacorn are unicorn-like creatures live near Mount Targon . Young ones live near the peak of the mountain, taken care by Star Shepherds.
Grown Stellacorn use their wings soar the sky. When they flying, most people would think they are moving stars.
It is considered lucky to see and know the Stellacorn and even luckier to grow one. This is mentioned in the flavor text of the Legends of Runeterra card. [ 3 ]
Tamu are a quadrupedal mammalian herbivores that mostly dwell in the lower plains of Mount Targon. These creatures are intelligent and are raised by tribes in vast flocks. Shepherds herd their flocks to graze on the slopes during the hotter seasons. They are also able to traverse narrow cliff sides and climb mountain areas.
Their manes are of a white color, while the rest of their coat is different shades of brown and tan. These lush coats are sheared bi-yearly and woven into warm clothing and other textiles by the Rakkor.
Demacia has had a long reverence for Mount Targon itself. 'The Crown of Stone', is a ceremony that demanded a dishonored soldier ascend Mount Targon. Known to all as a death sentence, few mortals had ever survived the climb.
And while the Crown of Stone was traditionally used by the dishonored to simply flee Demacia and make a new life in exile, Taric decided to actually atone for his mistake and set out for the towering spire of Mount Targon, later successfully becoming the Aspect of Protection. Both Kayle and Morgana are two Ascended who hail from Mount Targon but have made historical and cultural mark upon the nation since its inception.
Ixtali culture is part of an older great westward diaspora that gave the rise of civilizations such as the ascetics of Mount Targon. It is likely Ixtali played a significant role in the creation of the first Ascended .
Since its inception Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disk, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians.
During the Darkin War Targonian Aspects aided Shurima with both stopping and imprisoning all of warring Darkin of that time.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
The Void is the "Realm of Nothingness" that lies beyond the Realm of Creation .
It is also a manifestation of this unknowable nothingness. It is a force of insatiable hunger, waiting through the eons until its masters, the mysterious Watchers , mark the final time of undoing.
To be a mortal touched by the power of the Void is to suffer an agonizing glimpse of eternal unreality, enough to shatter even the strongest mind. Denizens of the Void realm itself are construct-creatures, often of only limited sentience, but tasked with a singular purpose - to usher in total oblivion across Runeterra.
Screaming into existence with the birth of the universe, the Void is a manifestation of the unknowable nothingness that lies beyond. It is a force of insatiable hunger, waiting through the eons until its masters, the mysterious Watchers, mark the final time of undoing, and so usher in total oblivion across Runeterra.
The Watchers originated from the Void, a vast canvas of nothingness, in which the concept of its existence is a mystery, even to themselves. From the time the bravest among them first entered Runeterra , the Watchers did not possess material form, nor were they even aware of their own sentience. The Watchers did not know why they or the Void existed, only that it perturbed them that something , that something being our universe, existed in the vast blackness of nothing. In their curious and spiteful intent of understanding the material universe, they reshaped matter within it into conscious extensions of themselves tasked to collect information and knowledge in their behalf, becoming the prototype of the current and modern Voidborn.
The Watchers were immensely powerful, and transformed humans of the Freljord into the immortal Iceborn . The Iceborn were given great gifts, magic and immortality in return for their eternal loyalty. They conquered for the Watchers and built them a great civilization, including the bridge and fortress looming over the Howling Abyss , which eventually amassed in to an enormous empire, all in preparation for the inevitable destruction of all existence.
Watcher's frozen prison
Avarosa , believing that their servitude to the Watchers was worse than death, led the Iceborn rebellion against the Watchers. This culminated in to a long bloody battle across the bridge known as the Howling Abyss . Countless Iceborn were killed, but they eventually won the battle, with Avarosa's sister, Lissandra, weaving a spell to sacrifice armies of Iceborn, possibly including her sisters, to entomb the Watchers in a glacial prison of True Ice underneath the bridge.
The boldest of the Watchers tore open the veil and hurled themselves upward, only to be horribly disoriented by the sudden shift between the abyss and the corporeal, linear nature of reality. In an instant, there was time , and heat , and pain ...
Then there was only cold. The way was shut, and dozens of the Watchers were trapped in the liminal space between two realms, frozen in the moment of transition.
Those that remained in the Void recoiled. They had no concept of what had happened, yet they knew they had been betrayed .
And so, they adapted.
Reaching into the material realm, the Watchers took from the crude matter that comprised it, shaping, corrupting and imbuing it with consciousness. These constructs were the first of the Voidborn, and would be their masters' eyes and ears, sent forth into the nightmare of existence to watch, listen, and learn.
While many believed the Watchers were dead, they were merely imprisoned in a magical stasis of True Ice under the Howling Abyss. This took the lives of many Iceborn, possibly Avarosa and Serylda, themselves. To cover up her past mistakes in pledging allegiance to the Watchers, Lissandra rewrote the history of the Freljord, turning the tales of the Watchers into that of myths and songs. She now fears the day they return, with each nine runic seal that holds their prison slowly fading away.
Fall of Icathia
At the start of the Icathian rebellion against Shurima , the reformed Kohari order fought against an Ascended in Bai-Zek, a city on the Icathian borders with Shurima. Half of a mountain was toppled and many died, but at the end, Saijax beheaded the Ascended.
Soon after in the capital, the resentment for centuries of laws intended to eradicate Icathian culture came to a head in one blood-filled day as every servant of the Sun-Emperor were chased and killed. A new Mage King rose together with his reformed Kohari warrior order. The corpse of the Ascended killed in Bai-Zek was shown in the capital as proof that Shurima's "god-warriors" could still die.
A day after the massacre, an army of stonewrights, laborers, and thaumaturges hefted giant blocks of freshly hewn granite into the place of the cities ruined walls with windlass mechanisms that crackled with magic, rebuilding the fallen wall. Ten thousand men and women were conscripted to defend the city, clad in the armor of boiled leather and armed with axes, picks, and spears. Two thousand talon-riders were deployed on either flank riding scaled and feathered mounts. A thousand archers knelt in two long lines, fifty feet ahead of the three blocks of deep-ranked infantry forming the bulk of the Icathian line.
The Empire sent its vast army upon Icathia with riders on golden mounted chariots and hundreds of floating chariots ahead of the main force. Heavy wagons the size of river barques bore spinning globes orbited by flaming spheres and lightning. Nine Ascended lead by Setaka came on the heart of the army. Between those Ascended were Nasus , Aatrox , Shabeke, Shabaka, Ta'anari, and Enakai.
The Icathians were winning against the enslaved and mercenary army of Shurima, but they began to be overrun by the might of the god-warriors. What happened next sealed Icathia's fate. A "weapon", found in the underground after an earthquake, was used. With an explosion, arcs of purple energy ripped into the sky and lashed down into the Shurimans. A nightmarish light, sickly blue, and ugly purple smothered the world, pressing down from above and blooming up from somewhere far below.
An abyss that bled purple light tore open amid the Shurimans, and Setaka was overcome by whipping cords of matter. She fought to free herself but the power of the Void proved too much for her. A pulsing light spread over her body like a hideous cocoon. Slick coils rose from the earth and from the air to seize the flesh of mortals. Men and women were swept up and enveloped, bodies dissolve as the tendrils of foul energy overwhelmed them.
Booming cracks echoed as more and more chasms tore the landscape open. The walls of Icathia were shattered by a note that split the earth. Geysers of dust and smoke erupted from within the city. Rock fell and earth split. Ancient towers and palaces were swallowed whole by the ever-widening chasms. Only rubble and shattered fragments remained, the Icathian capital reduced to a charred skeleton. The landscape before the city was twisting with unnatural motion, light spilled from the colossal rents torn in the ground, and alien sounds echoed from far below. The flesh of the Shuriman army had been obscured by pale, coiling ropes of hideous matter, its surface was undulant, and swelling blisters of glistening matter burst open with frothing birth-sacs that twisted and unfolded. Their surface darkened, splitting where it hardened like a carapace. Viscous ichor spilled out as countless Voidborns came to this damned landscape.
At the end of the battle the territory Where Icathia Once Stood became a Void taken wasteland from where the forces of the Void attacked every lifeform it encountered.
On a battle to seal an ocean rift on the eastern coast, Sypahx and Ta'anari fought for ten days and nights and were able to drive the Void back after the death of seven thousand Shuriman warriors died on the red shore. Only the Ascended heroes returned alive.
Ne'Zuk, an Ixtali elemental mage Ascended of colossal power created the Monolith—a floating fortress of living stone with the size of a city, maintained by the greatest elemental mages, and its ramparts manned by his fellow Ixtali god-warriors, to face the Void in Icathia. After weeks of battle, as Ne'Zuk fought to rally his Ascended brethren for one last, desperate charge, the Monolith crashed down to earth, cleaving through the bedrock of Icathia and opening the Void beneath to the skies. Much of the fortress was lost within that gaping maw, vanishing into the silent nothingness beyond. The only Ascended who survived, Ne'Zuk, fled for his life. The far-flung shards failed to heal and got destroyed, but one of them remained and later became known as Malphite .
In the great battle to seal the Great Rift of Icathia, Sabeke and Sabake, twins ravens Ascended had their minds shattered with a glimpse of the Watchers.
The Shuriman Ascended fought against it for years, many god-warriors and even more mortals died at this war, but through the heroic actions of Horok, who found a way to end Void corruption destroying the Void hearts found far below the ground, where unknowable horrors were hidden, the Ascended were able to seal the greatest rifts. Even though those were some of the most affected, all the Sunborn(self given name to the Ascended who survived the war) lost something on that victory. Nightmarish memories of this war would haunt them and reinforce their fall into Darkin .
In the abyssal darkness, deep underground, it is believed that the first great Void creatures to walk the surface of Runeterra now lie, dormant and unseen. If that is true, then they have waited patiently through the millennia, and it must surely now be time for them to rise once more. Over the centuries, many mortals from the world above have answered the Void's call, or been dragged down against their will. There are those among them—few and far between—who have survived the encounter... though not a single one of them returned unchanged.
Only a few Void Rifts have ever sprung up in the Freljord, most at the time of Watchers first interactions with Runeterra. After their imprisonment, only a few areas remained Void corrupted. The Frostguard watch over the Watchers' prison.
A great and terrible battle was fought against the Void before the walls of ancient Icathia. In the aftermath, the lands all around the damned city became deserted wastes, and its very existence was struck from the maps of Shurima. It was hoped, perhaps foolishly, that the horrors unleashed there would eventually be forgotten...
After the fall of Icathia, Voidborn spread all across Shurima. Despite the sealing of The Rupture, countless smaller Void Rifts opened across the deserts of Shurima, most near Icathia itself. To this day the land is still littered with underground Void corrupted caves and tunnels. Below those, the Prophet is opening even more Void rifts across Shurima, the opening of such rifts is said to cause powerful quakes opening up the bedrock of Shurima in new fault lines hundreds of miles long. They corrupt the underground of Shurima in the same way of the rifts mentioned above. Kai'Sa survived in one of the locations.
Long ago, the Marai discovered a rift in the depths. The rift bore a horrible, creeping darkness which sought to exterminate all forms of life . The Marai were protected from the creatures coming from the rift by the Moonstone, a glowing rock said to be infused with celestial magic from the heavens, such stone was given to the Marai by a luminous wanderer from Targon's peak. In exchange of the moonstone, the wanderer asked for an Abyssal Pearl to protect her own tribe. The light of the Moonstone at the center of the Marai village made the Voidborn withdraw from the village, but every hundred years or so, the moonstone's light begins to dim. At that moment, the tribe chooses their fiercest warrior and bestows upon them the title of Tidecaller, who must plunge into the icy darkness of the rift, survive the horrors within and retrieve an abyssal pearl. If successful, the Tidecaller rises to shore where a luminous wanderer from Targon's peak awaits with a moonstone to trade for the pearl. This ritual has been keeping the Voidborn contained, but now that Nami, the most recent Tidecaller, wasn't able to find the Targonian wanderer, the fate of the Marai and the horrors in the depth remain unknown...
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands
Marai Village
Oovi-Kat Island
Constellations
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun · Volrachnun
Targon Prime
Void Realm · Multiverse
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
This article or section may require clean-up to meet League of Legends Wiki's quality standards . Reason given: Some of the information in the History section is outdated and incorrect.
The land now known as the Shadow Isles was once a beautiful realm , but it was shattered by a magical cataclysm. Black Mist permanently shrouds the isles and the land itself is tainted, corrupted by malevolent sorcery . Living beings that stand upon the Shadow Isles slowly have their life-force leeched from them, which, in turn, draws the insatiable, predatory spirits of the dead. Those who perish within the Black Mist are condemned to haunt this melancholy land for eternity. Worse, the power of the Shadow Isles is waxing stronger with every passing year, allowing the shades of undeath to extend their range and reap souls all across Runeterra .
Hidden from outsiders for many centuries, the Blessed Isles enjoyed a golden age dedicated to knowledge, philosophy, and the safeguarding of magical artifacts from across Runeterra. Helia, the capital of the Blessed Isles, was filled with renowned archanologists, astronomers, and scholars of every conceivable discipline, while the common people lived peaceful lives of pastoral simplicity in the surrounding countryside.
The Shadow Isles were once a beautiful realm, long since shattered by a magical cataclysm. Now, Black Mist permanently shrouds the land, tainting and corrupting with its malevolent sorcery. Those who perish within it are condemned to become part of it for all eternity... and worse still, each year the Mist extends its grasp to reap more souls across Runeterra. [ 2 ]
Helia of the Blessed Isles
Long before the Ruination, a chain of islands that would one day be called the Blessed Isles erupted from deep beneath the ocean. With its creation, the nature spirit Maokai was born, taking the form of a treant.
Maokai wandered the isles in search of life, until on a hilly isle covered in soft, rich soil, Maokai sensed boundless magic deep beneath the ground. He plunged his roots into a spring of magical, life-giving water and drank deeply. From these Waters of Life, he grew hundreds of saplings and planted them across the islands. Soon the land was covered with wonderous flora, all steeped in wondrous magic. Nature spirits were drawn to the lavish vegetation, and animals reveled in the fertile greenery.
When humans from an ancient culture expanding westward eventually came to the islands, they formed an enlightened and rich society of scholars devoted to studying the world's mysteries. Though Maokai was wary of their presence, he saw their respect for the deep magic within the woods and occasionally revealed himself directly to those he trusted and blessed them with knowledge of the verdant isles, even revealing the Waters of Life to some.
Eventually Vesani scholars from Ionia would arrive on the Blessed Isles, intrigued by the Hallowed Mist protecting the island. Seeking to research the mist, the residents allowed them to stay and aided in constructing their vault. The Vesani would research the effect the mist had on memories and were able to use its power to enchant golems. During their time on the island, they would befriend Maokai and be spied on by a connving warden .
The Ruination Blast
In an empire that none now recall, resided Kalista , a general and niece of the king . She lived by a strict code of honor, serving the throne with utmost loyalty. When the king's enemies sent an assassin to slay him, Kalista saved his life - but in doing so inadvertently sent the venom-coated dagger at the queen . The greatest priests and surgeons were summoned, but none could draw the poison from her body. The king dispatched Kalista in search of a cure. Hecarim , who had recently become the commander of the Iron Order through a gruesome betrayal known only to himself, took Kalista's place in her absence.
Kalista traveled far, consulting learned scholars, hermits and mystics... but to no avail. Finally, she learned of the Blessed Isles and set sail on one last voyage of hope.
The guardians of the capital city, Helia, saw the purity of Kalista's intent, and parted the Isles' protective mists to allow her safe passage through. She begged them to heal the queen and managed to sway the masters of the city to her cause. While the queen lived, she could be healed in the Waters of Life. Kalista was given a talisman that would allow her to return to Helia unaided, but was warned against sharing this knowledge with any other.
Meanwhile, as the kingdom began to decline due to the king's spending and seclusion, its inhabitants began to protest his obsession. Mad with grief, Viego raged at those he believed were trying to separate him from his dying wife, dispatching Hecarim to quell dissent throughout the kingdom. The Iron Order burned towns and villages. Hundreds were put to the sword.
When the queen died, the king locked himself away with her corpse, falling deeper into madness. Hecarim chose to sour the king's grief into hatred, seeking to lead the Iron Order into foreign lands. He would avenge her death, while earning yet more dark renown for himself.
But before they could ride out, Kalista returned. When the king learned of this, he demanded to know what she had found. She admitted that the cure she had found would be of no use. Viego would not believe this, and imprisoned Kalista as a traitor to the crown.
Intrigued by what he had heard, Hecarim visited her cell, and they spoke of the pale mists that protected the islands from all invaders... and also of the inhabitants' immense wealth, including the legendary Waters of Life.
Knowing only Kalista could lead them there, Hecarim eventually persuaded her to guide the king's fleet through the veil that concealed the Blessed Isles, taking advantage of her love for her uncle by arguing that if they traveled to the Isles, Viego could finally find peace. Hesitantly, Kalista agreed.
And so the king set out with a fleet of his fastest ships, bypassing the mists in his desperation. However, when they were met by Helia's masters, they were not allowed pass. Death, they insisted, was final. To cheat it would be to break the natural order of the world.
Viego flew into a fevered rage, and commanded Kalista to slay the guardians. She refused, and called on Hecarim to stand with her... but instead he drove his spear through her armored back.
The Iron Order joined him, piercing Kalista's body a dozen times more as she fell. A brutal melee erupted, with those devoted to Kalista fighting against Hecarim's knights, but their numbers were too few. As she watched her warriors die, Kalista swore vengeance with her final breath.
Ruination of the Isles
Hecarim then ordered his knights to ransack the city, looting its vaults of arcane treasures. Amid the chaos, a lowly custodian agreed to grant the king access to the Waters of Life—but not even this distracted Hecarim from the revelry of bloodshed, and so the Ruination of the Blessed Isles would take him almost completely by surprise.
The King brought the corpse of his wife to the sacred waters. True to their nature, they brought Isolde back to life...but she arose as a horrifying wraith of shadow and rage, and in her pain, her anger, her confusion at being ripped from death, she took Viego’s own enchanted blade and thrust it through his heart.
The magic of the waters and the ancient sword clashed, and the chamber’s energy erupted. A blastwave of magical force tore across Helia, shattering every last building and leaving the fragments suspended in searing un-light. In its wake came the Black Mist, a billowing hurricane that dragged every living creature it touched into its shrieking, roiling embrace. Hecarim tried to rally the Iron Order, hoping to make it back to their ships, but the mist claimed them one by one as they fled.
When Hecarim was taken by the mist, he and his mighty steed were fused into a monstrous, spectral abomination that reflected the darkness in Hecarim's heart—a brazen creature of fury and spite, as one with the Black Mist and yet utterly enslaved by it.
Thresh, the Chain Warden
Thresh was among the first to be claimed by the Black Mist, but while others screamed in anguish at their fate, he reveled in it. He arose from The Ruination as a spectral monstrosity, relishing the chance to torment others without fear of reprisal, and unfettered by the limits of mortality.
Over the centuries that followed, his supernatural appearance slowly changed to match his malice and cruelty. Thresh came to realize most other spirits trapped within the Black Mist retained only fragments of their former selves—even the strongest of the foreign invaders, such as Hecarim or Ledros —while his power continued to grow.
Even Kalista herself was not spared from undeath. When next Kalista opened her eyes, they were filled with the dark power of unnatural magic. She had no idea what had transpired and tried to cling to those fragmented memories of Hecarim's monstrous betrayal; they have slowly faded in all the centuries since, and all that now remains is a thirst for revenge burning in Kalista's ruined chest. She has become a specter, a figure of macabre folklore, often invoked by those who have suffered similar treacheries.
These wretched spirits are subsumed into hers, to pay the ultimate price—becoming one with the Spear of Vengeance .
Maokai, the Twisted Treant
When the ruination struck, Maokai plunged his roots deep into the ground and drank of the Waters of Life. Before the cursed water reached him, Maokai withdrew his roots. He howled in rage as the sacred reservoir he had entrusted to men was fully corrupted – the spiraling coils churning underwater until nothing pure remained.
Moments later, Maokai watched in helpless agony as all he knew twisted into wretched shades. His fury grew; the great beauty he had cultivated from tiny saplings fell to ruin in an instant at the careless hand of man.
The Black Mist coiled around Maokai. His body shuddered and contorted into a mass of gnarled roots and tangled branches as the mist leached life from him. But Maokai's heartwood was saturated with the precious waters of life, saving him from the terrible fate of undeath.
Maokai realized the force of his blows could shatter the cursed spirit to dust. He flew at the breathless shapes in a frenzy, but hundreds more overwhelmed him, and eventually he was forced to retreat.
Now Maokai fights with furious vengeance against the Fallen. Some days, Maokai subdues the mist and its deathless spirits, breaking their hold on a grove of trees or a small thicket. Though new life has not bloomed in such cursed soil for an age, Maokai strives to carve havens, however temporary, free from regret and decay.
He was once tempted to try and escape the nightmare of the isles. But he knew he couldn't leave the Isles, for as long as Maokai continues to fight, hope remains. For steeped within his heartwood are the uncorrupted waters of life, the last remaining chance of restoring the isles. If the land returns to its joyous state, Maokai, too, will shed his twisted form. The nature spirit brought life to these isles long ago, and he refuses to rest until the isles bloom once more.
Yorick, Shepherd of Souls
Since he was a small child, Yorick was always able to commune with spirits and ghosts. This ability would give him a better understanding and respect for life after death.
Tales of Yorick's visions soon spread beyond his village, and drew the attention of a small order of monks who dwelled at the heart of the Blessed Isles. Its envoys traveled to Yorick's island, believing he could become an asset to their faith.
When the Ruination ran across the Blessed Isles, Yorick watched as his order was swallowed whole by the destructive magic of the Black Mist that was consuming the land. His brothers - the monks he had grown up with - were compelled, as if under control of an unknown being, to remove the holy vials around their necks and leave themselves to the mercy of the Mist, which killed and consumed them where they stood. And though the voice of the mist called to him and commanded he do the same, he refused - pouring every last bit of his self-restraint in keeping himself alive as death danced around him.
The Mist clung to him, and when he awoke after the Cataclysm had resided, Yorick discovered the Blessed Isles as a wasteland of decay, despair and rot. He searched for survivals as the Mist held on to him, though the holy water in the vial around his neck kept it from devouring him. Realizing he was the only survivor of the destruction, Yorick felt horror draw upon him. He tried to communicate with the spirits around him, rising from the bodies of the dead, and discovered he had control over them. Though nothing but the hollow husks of beings he once called family and friends, Yorick made his resolve - to defeat the Black Mist; he would use it to his own whim, and destroy the curse with its own power.
Viego, the Ruined King
With the liberation of Senna , Viego was awakened by Thresh and Gangplank . The two plotted to use the Ruined King's power to subjugate Bilgewater, but interlopers interrupted their plan. Viego overwhelmed Gangplank and possessed the pirate, unleashing him against Ahri , Braum , Illaoi , Miss Fortune , Pyke and Yasuo , while he headed to Bilgewater to search for his queen. The champions of Bilgewater used Viego's own memories against him and sealed him within a Buhru artifact, hidden by Illaoi. Viego would eventually break free from his prison and resume his search. A fragment of Isolde's soul was trapped within Senna and he was determined to reunite with her no matter the cost. He began a series of Harrowings in search of her. Viego eventually encountered Lucian and Senna on a remote island and unleashed Harrowings in Demacia , Ionia and Noxus . Viego partially removed the fragment of Isolde's soul within Senna and attempted to kill her before they escaped.
Vex, the Gloomist
Viego realized he needed more power to scour the lands to search for the fragments of Isolde's soul. Fortunately, he soon encountered a depressed Yordle who followed the Black Mist through a portal and was enamored by the darkness of the Shadow Isles. Seeing her unique ability to spread despair, making people more vulnerable to Harrowings, the two struck up an alliance and plotted to plunge the world into darkness. With aid from his new ally, Viego was able to unleash a global harrowing across Runeterra. With an overwhelming amount of Black Mist spread across the world, Viego set out to find his lost love.
During the global harrowing, the other denizens of the Shadow Isles enacted their own plans. Hecarim and his knights set out to pillage and plunder the lands of Runeterra, able to reach lands much farther thanks to the Black Mist. Thresh begins to siphon the rampant Black Mist, while feigning loyalty to Viego.
As Viego collects more and more fetters of Isolde's soul, he also gains more allies, corrupting Draven , Karma , Miss Fortune , Pantheon and Shyvana to his cause. One of these fetters manifests into Gwen , whom aligns herself with the Sentinels of Light and works with them to repel Viego's attacks across Runeterra. After Viego secures most of the fetters, the Sentinels of Light plan one last assault against Viego and the Shadow Isles. Yorick offers them the last of the Waters of Life and the final fetter: the Maiden the of the Mist. Viego gains the upper hand in the battle and takes the fetters to Camavor to revive Isolde. The Sentinel Akshan follows him to Camavor and kills Isolde again and soon Viego is left defeated and restrained by the Hallowed Mist. Thresh soon reveals that he has been absorbing the Black Mist and is now unbound from the Shadow Isles and able to harvest souls across Runeterra.
Exposure To The Mist
The Black Mist is a thick shroud that covers the Isles and the surrounding seaside. Before the Ruination the White Mist was merely a natural magical enchantment protecting the Isles of anyone trying to trespass on them. Only its denizens and certain outsiders knew how to navigate through the mist. Thanks to the confounding magical mist that shrouded the Isles, there was little need for any standing army.
After the Ruination, the Black Mist became a prison of souls, trapping any living being it touches in the moment of death, only the strongest of souls who retain their personality and desires can escape its grasp. But the manifestations of those souls who escape the Mist can be killed with the right tools or by other spirits. They are doomed to return to the mist, sometimes staying there for centuries, other times just some days. Manifested spirits can use the Black Mist to travel anywhere it touches, even though stronger spirits may venture beyond the isles without a Harrowing.
When a Harrowing happens, weaker spirits are able to manifest and the Black Mist travels beyond the Isles allowing legions of souls, most forming the Mist itself, to hunt the living. Harrowings can happen anywhere, but they happen most often on Bilgewater . Harrowings tends to last only one night as the souls of the damned are also vulnerable to sunlight and pure light. One of the few known ways to truly free a soul from the grasp of the Black is through the power of Nagakabouros.
Helia was once the capital and major center of the Blessed Isles in many ways.
On the now ruined Helia, Thresh uses a grand castle he calls his Sanctum , to imprison numerous souls and keep them around to torture.
An area once teeming with natural magic and life, it has since been twisted and rotted into grotesque imitations of the original entities inhabiting it.
Arachnids known as Spiderlings are the giant children of Elise and Vilemaw and reside in both Noxus and the Shadow Isles . Large dark spiders with red highlights, they feast upon the living flesh of humans and other large prey. Living in groups, they gained a hive mind with each other as well as their Spider Queen Elise.
Souls claimed by the Black Mist are known to some as the Fallen . While usually corporeal, they can be harmed with the right tool, such as magic, silver, or even sunlight.
Nightbloom is a rare flame-red petaled flower native to the Blessed Isles . It is virtually extinct except for a few who bushes that are cared for in Vladimir's garden in his mansion in Noxus . On the Blessed Isles they blossomed on the evening of the summer solstice. By morning the flowers wilted, leaving only blackened petals, not to be seen again until the following year. But for one night, they illuminated the forest with blazing crimson. If the flowers petals are plucked, the remaining petals immediately curl inwards, the stem bending away as if it can express fear.
A particularly Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). .
Poros , while native to the Freljord , have since spread to every region on Runeterra. At least one Poro has been found on the Shadow Isles.
The Shadow Isles are home to their own variety of Citrus fruit , likely similar in appearance to an orange, but with the notable distinction that they have dangerous spikes present. These fruit were likely to have been corrupted by the The Ruination .
Treants are a fusion of nature spirits (or any sapient species) and plant life. One such species was the Omikayalan God-Willow, which essence was later transferred to the Freljordian warrior Ivern . Other examples are Maokai , a nature spirit fused with the plant life and natural magics of the Blessed Isles. Besides treants that share humanoid physical and sapient characteristics, there are those that take animalistic forms and behaviors such as those that take form of felines, lizards, or toads. A vast majority of these treants are corrupted by the undead magics of the Shadow Isles and have lost most of their sapience due to the Ruination. Maokai is among the very few Blessed Isles treants that survived such a fate.
Resembling that of an arachnid spider whose grotesque mass is furred and scabbed with wet, mutant growths; and adorned with venomous fangs and colossal legs used to heave its corrupt body; this unearthly horror is a monstrous creature that looms in the darkest pits beneath the Shadow Isles. The true origin of Vilemaw is completely unknown, save for the assumption that the voracious spider god is an otherworldly life-form not originally from Runeterra.
It has great physical strength as well as magical, being able to transfigure willing humans into its servants. It uses its servants to gather fresh food.
Bilgewater of the Blue Flame Isles is closer to the Shadow Isles than anywhere else, and the first to be enveloped by the yearly Harrowing.
In recent years, the Harrowing has attacked Demacia and the area around it a few times. A Demacian expedition looking to purify the Shadow Isles would later be sent at some point, but eventually got defeated and suffered heavy loss.
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands
Marai Village
Oovi-Kat Island
Constellations
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun · Volrachnun
Targon Prime
Void Realm · Multiverse
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Renowned for its mastery of elemental magic, Ixtal was one of the first independent nations to join the Shuriman empire. In truth, Ixtali culture is much older—part of the great westward diaspora that gave rise to civilizations including the Buhru , magnificent Helia , and the ascetics of Targon —and it is likely they played a significant role in the creation of the first Ascended .
But the mages of Ixtal survived the Void , and later the Darkin , by distancing themselves from their neighbors, drawing the wilderness around them like a shield. While much had already been lost, they were committed to the preservation of what little remained...
Now, secluded deep in the jungle for thousands of years, the sophisticated arcology-city of Ixaocan remains mostly free of outside influence. Having witnessed from afar the ruination of the Blessed Isles and the Rune Wars that followed, the Ixtali view all the other factions of Runeterra as upstarts and pretenders, and use their powerful magic to keep any intruders at bay.
Secluded deep in the wilderness of eastern Shurima, the sophisticated arcology-city of Ixaocan remains mostly free of outside influence. Having witnessed from afar the ruination of the Blessed Isles, and the softening of Buhru culture, the Ixtali view the other factions of Runeterra as little more than upstarts and pretenders, and use their powerful elemental magic to keep any intruders at bay. [ 1 ]
Skarner, the Primordial Sovereign
The founders of Ixtal traveled to the west of Shurima and settled in a lush jungle. Unbeknownst to them they were being observed by the brackern Skarner , who found their existence fascinating. He watched them from afar, deep within the jungle, until one day a rockslide threatened to destroy the settlement. Not wanting the subjects of his observations to be destroyed, Skarner emerged from his hiding and saved Ixtal. The Ixtali were grateful for his intervention and revered Skarner as a protector, who soon integrated himself in the settlement. In exchange for sharing their culture and history, Skarner would use his geomancy and strength to help them build the great arcology of Ixaocan. Skarner became a founding member of the Yun Tal , the ruling caste of Ixtal, and combined the Brackern's collectivist culture with the Ixtali's scientific mindset to lead their people to greatness.
Skarner continued to protect Ixtal by monitoring the earth's vibrations and grew concerned over the Shuriman Empire's expansion across the continent and the violence caused by the Ascended. The Shuriman Empire invited Ixtal to join into an alliance and the Yun Tal agreed, despite Skarner's protest.
Not long after, and roughly 3500 years before the present day, Icathia fell, opening the way for the Void . The Ixtali people, at the time part of the Shuriman empire, now faced an enemy that could lay their grand empire low. The corruption spread rapidly from Icathia's ruins, before its hideous tendrils reached the southernmost jungles of Ixtal. Ne'Zuk of the Ascended Host was an Ixtali elemental mage of colossal power. He pledged to create a weapon powerful enough to take the fight to the Void, and eradicate it at the source of its original eruption.
After months of inhuman labor, Ne'Zuk revealed the Monolith—a floating fortress of living stone, maintained by the greatest elemental mages, and its ramparts manned by his fellow Ixtali god-warriors. The size of a city itself, the Monolith glided towards Icathia to face the Void and the hordes of Voidborn it had created.
The battle dragged into weeks. It was violence of a scale and intensity never before witnessed in Runeterra. Sorcery enough to raze entire civilizations, or render whole continents into naught but a memory, was unleashed upon the Void.
The darkness retaliated in kind. The living stone of the Monolith became pocked and seared with unnatural malphite—from the Ixtali for “bad stone”—and leaving mineral-like scars. The fortress was pushed to the very limits of its design, struggling to self-repair and reknit its weakened superstructure until it reached the breaking point.
As Ne'Zuk fought to rally his Ascended brethren for one last, desperate charge, the Monolith crashed down to earth. Much of the fortress was lost within that gaping maw, vanishing into the nothingness beyond. The rest rained down as great ruins. Only Ne'Zuk survived, fleeing for his life.
However, a single shard remained. Buried deep beneath the surface, forgotten even by those that dwelt in the abyss, it slowly gathered in strength. It lived, until at last it awakened after uncounted centuries, and realized it was alone. In all the centuries since that dark day, the last shard of the Monolith would become Malphite .
In the aftermath of the war, and further destruction wrought by the Rune Wars, Skarner convinced the Yun Tal to withdraw from the outside world and hid their land in lies and magic. Skarner's faith in the Yun Tal was forever shaken by their decision to ally with Shurima, and while he still cared deeply for the people of Ixtal, he could no longer trust them to protect themselves. Skarner decided that only he could defend Ixtal and constructed an underground chamber beneath Ixaocan. He sequestered himself within the chamber, where his ability to listen to the earth's vibrations were greatly enhanced. He began to leave his chamber less and less, eventually fading into myth; with only the Yun Tal aware of his existence.
Deep in jungles south of Kumungu, between the rivers that divide eastern Shurima were the Gardens of Zyr . Elemental magics found in the soil allowed the growth of fierce, carnivorous plants that prayed on all creatures within reach. In the midst of the Rune Wars, a small company of soldiers lead by an ambitious sorceress entered these lands in search of a long-lost prize. A battle ensued between the vicious flora of the Gardens and the soldiers, forcing the sorceress to gather her power and unleash a mighty runic spell, creating a blast of energy. In that instant however, a rogue spark ignited the gasses throughout the swamps and caused an explosion, destroying all living things for miles around, leaving no survivors to tell the fate of the Gardens of Zyr.
The jungles of Shurima are a frontier that the most ambitious generals would dearly love to claim for Noxus. Having petitioned Noxian high command no fewer than seven times, fleet officer Tomyri is finally summoned to the capital to receive a commission of her own. Tomyri oversees her vessel's final preparations, before learning that the expedition is to be joined by the renowned Reckoning beast hunter, Niander Ordylon. After many days at sea, the Ardentius enters the Serpentine Delta. This is Tomyri's first real glimpse of the wilderness that awaits her, and her crew. The jungle does not treat foreign invaders kindly. Unable to find their bearings, or any quarry for the beast hunters, the Noxians' morale and discipline begins to falter. Realizing they were send on a fool's errand, they try to return home, only to find that their ship has been taken by the jungle. Tomyri and the rest of her crew are all smothered to death by the living vines.
Ixtal is located in the eastern part of Shuriman Continent bordering Shurima in the east, and surrounded by the Shuriman Jungle (Ixtals borders once stretched the entirety of the jungle region). The currently well known locations encompassing Ixtal are:
Ixaocan is a system of arcologies that stretches across the jungles of Ixtal . The Cardinal Arcology , sometimes also named after the system it anchors, stands as its heart.
The arcologies are connected by intersecting lines of power, and each represents a specific form or discipline of elemental magic. The largest are home to tens of thousands of Ixtali practitioners. However, they are neither wholly habitats nor colleges of magic, but something in between.
The jungles of Ixtal are dotted with multiple outlying villages and settlements, separate from the arcologies of Ixaocan . The most trusted Yun Tal may be designated as the prefects of these villages. They would resolve local disputes, test potential aspirants, and generally ensure that the Ixtali people have as little interaction with outsiders as possible.
Noxian Intruders
When the Rune Wars closed in on their doorsteps, Skarner was able to convince the other Yun Tal to close the Ixtali border by drawing the wilderness around them to act as a barrier, isolating Ixaocan and its surrounding jungles from the rest of Runeterra .
The barrier erected by the Yun Tal, manifests several potent effects that deter and repel people from the outside world (known as Nasiana by the Ixtali) from trespassing. Elemental magic manipulates the weather, conjuring sudden storms that persist for days, drenching intruders and making navigation treacherous. The dense mist obscures visibility, leading travelers astray, while the landscape itself shifts and rearranges, impeding progress and trapping those who venture within.
Travelers can find themselves entangled in a relentless struggle against the oppressive vegetation, hacking through thick vines and dense foliage as they press forward into the heart of the wilderness. The air hangs heavy with humidity, choking the senses and obscuring visibility in a thick, impenetrable fog. An eerie sense of being watched pervades the atmosphere as men vanish without a trace, swallowed by the jungle's insatiable appetite or torn asunder by unseen forces lurking amidst the shadows. Vines exhibit a rapid growth rate, quickly engulfing structures, vessels and people alike within their reach.
Despite the barrier's formidable reputation for causing those who attempt to breach it to mysteriously vanish, a few individuals, such as Ezreal and Neeko , have somehow managed to traverse it, although the specifics of their methods remain unknown. Meanwhile, Piltover has intensified its endeavors to extend its operations beyond the Ixtali borders, with some degree of success.
Ixtali culture is part of an older great westward diaspora that gave the rise of civilizations across Runeterra .
After its isolation from the rest of the world and the formation of Bilgewater , a lot of pirates and adventure seekers would attempt to trek into the unforgiving jungle landscape in search of ancient treasure, only to never be heard from again (due to the wildlife, or the Ixtali defending their borders). One of the group of people that settled the regions around Ixtal are the riverfolk of the Serpentine River .
During ancient times, both of these nations had a cultural ties with one another. Mages from Icathia such as Zilean went to study elemental magics in Ixtali cities such as Ixaocan . After the Void rupture, the Ixtali Ascended Ne'Zuk constructed a giant superweapon known as the Monolith to combat the entities of the Void. The battle decimated Icathian lands, leaving visible scars to the entire peninsula.
In recent times, Ixtali have had an unwelcoming contact with the Noxian Empire . Numerous Noxian expeditions were made to the Shuriman Jungle, some of which ending in disaster while others were able to secure small outposts at the very edges of the jungle.
In recent times, Ixtali have had an unwelcoming contact with the nation of Piltover . The Piltover Explorers Guild has delved into the Jungle in search of arcane treasures, only to vanish without a trace (due to the wildlife, or the Ixtali defending their borders). However, due to the actions of Qiyana , Piltover has found out about the existence of this hidden nation.
During ancient times, Ixtal was one of the first nations to join the Shuriman Empire . After the fall of Icathia , the Ixtali started to distance themselves from the Empire, completely isolating themselves by the time of the Darkin War and the later Rune Wars .
It is likely Ixtal had a significant relation with Targon due to its involvement in the creation of the first Ascended .
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Opinions differ as to where exactly the home of the yordles is to be found, though a handful of mortals claim to have traveled unseen pathways to a land of curious enchantment beyond the material realm. They tell of a place of unfettered magic, where the foolhardy can be led astray by myriad wonders, and end up lost in a dream...
In Bandle City , it is said that every sensation is heightened for non-yordles. Colors are brighter. Food and drink intoxicates the senses for years and, once tasted, will never be forgotten. The sunlight is eternally golden, the waters crystal clear, and every harvest brings a fruitful bounty. Perhaps some of these claims are true, or maybe none—for no two taletellers ever seem to agree on what they actually saw.
Only one thing is known for certain, and that is the timeless quality of Bandle City and its inhabitants. This might explain why those mortals who find their way back often appear to have aged tremendously, while many more never return at all.
Opinions differ as to where exactly the home of the yordles is to be found, though many claim to have travelled through unseen portals to a land of curious enchantment. They tell of a place of unfettered magic, where the foolhardy can be led astray by myriad wonders and end up lost in a dream, never to return at all.
For most of the peoples of Runeterra, yordles are not typically something to be feared. Their fabled home of Bandle City is said to be a mysterious, spiritual place, filled with odd trinkets and keepsakes gathered from across the material realm. While these curious creatures often leave to dwell among mortal races for a time, they generally return with fresh tales and new experiences to recount.
During the early periods of Bandle City, Yordles that resided in this spiritual realm started constructing intricate system of gateways which would enable them to travel to the material realm of Runeterra . During the centuries, Runeterran civilizations rose and fallen, but the gateway system became ever more complex, connected with each other through magical leylines that crossed between the spiritual and material realms.
Gnar observing his surroundings
Time marches on for most, but not Gnar . A yordle born millennia ago, Gnar was trapped in true ice, frozen - quite literally - in time. Civilizations formed and fell as the prehistoric yordle vacantly stared on, but nothing – not even true ice – could confine Gnar forever. After breaking free, he wandered Runeterra until he found himself taken in by his yordle descendants. But, as they would soon discover, there's a beast behind the boy.
Bandle City is a self-contained pocket within the spirit realm, with no direct "mirror" in the material realm. [ 1 ] According to Lulu's lore, its likely origins are in The Glade . [ 2 ] The Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). connecting Bandle City to the material realm appears to have grown into Runeterra from the Glade. [ 3 ]
Runeterra is linked to an enchanted place in the spirit realm known as Bandle City. The pathways are rarely seen by mortals, for they only open under particular circumstances, or for those with the ability to read and interpret the language of the yordles. Certain portals can only be opened with a series of specific gestures, often defined by peculiar symbols inscribed nearby. Some portals open to a deep cavern, when the low tide reveals a pattern of runic circles, filling the indentations with sea water.
While there are portals whose positions can shift over time, there are many that stay rooted in a single location. The magic of the spirit realm occasionally ebbs back and forth around such places—known as bandlewoods—and affects the local flora and fauna in strange, unpredictable ways.
"The Low Roads" is a general term referring to the routes between portals. [ 4 ]
The doorways between realms are finicky and seldom open, even to creatures as dexterous as cats such as Yuumi . Yordles would have to wait for days for the eastern star to align with a particular stone archway, or waded impatiently between marsh-lilies, seeking a silver blossom blooming from the mud—only then would a pathway appear.
Many yordles from Bandle City have traveled to Runeterra, searching for new adventures and experiences. Throughout the centuries, these yordles have shaped countless cultures and nations, becoming key figureheads in historical events.
Yordles such as Kennen and Heimerdinger have reshaped the histories of Ionia and Piltover / Zaun respectfully, becoming respected elders and mentors in those nations.
Yordles like Poppy and Kled have turned the tide of countless battles for the nations of Demacia and Noxus respectfully, becoming the stuff of legends.
Yordles such as Teemo , Veigar , and Fizz through their mischievous deeds and accidental heroism are known throughout Runeterra.
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands
Marai Village
Oovi-Kat Island
Constellations
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun · Volrachnun
Targon Prime
Void Realm · Multiverse
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Camavor was founded by the twins, Camor and Avora. Camor was a warlord who conquered their neighbors to expand their kingdom. He struck a deal with Grandmother Viper's brood when he pleaded for their aid. In exchange for the dragons lending their power to his army, Camavor would supply them with endless riches and livestock. They sealed their pact with the oath of Vol Visperi-Desinvei, which would bind the royal family to Viper's brood for generations. When Camor was mortally wounded by the Black Arrow of Astora, his sister Avora used Mikael's Chalice to heal him from near-death. Camor's sword, Sanctity, would be passed down to his heirs and used to signify the rightful ruler of Camavor.
Legend once told of a prince in a kingdom threatened by the infamous Darkin , as their great war spilled into the rest of Valoran . With his father’s crown at stake, and many more heirs ahead of him in the line of succession, the unfortunate youth was traded to the fallen god-warriors as a hostage. Should he break faith with his new master, Vladimir would be slain. But like all his father’s promises, it was empty. He cared nothing for his own son, and broke his oath within the year.
But instead of killing him, his Darkin master had something altogether more amusing in mind. Amusing for him, at any rate. He offered Vladimir the chance to lead his armies against his father’s kingdom, an offer Vladimir gladly accepted. He destroyed his father’s city and presented his head to his master. Believing himself above other mortal vassals, and therefore worthy of the powerful blood magic, Vladimir was the first of his kind permitted to study this terrifying magic. His devotion earned him a place of favor in his patron’s warhost, and the right to practice hemomancy and enforce the darkin’s will on lesser beings. Over time, the god-warrior watched with amusement as Vladimir came to govern his subjects with as little mercy as the darkin themselves. [ 2 ]
At some point after being taken by his Darkin master, Vladimir started sending customary, yearly letters to his original kingdom to whoever was running Camavor at the time, which are typically responded by royal family. [ 3 ]
At some point Isolde creates a doll . Viego becomes the king following his brother's death, while his niece Kalista becomes the king's general. Viego meets and marries his queen, Isolde. Hecarim becomes the commander of the Iron Order.
Unable to interest himself in governance and having fallen in love, the nation begins to unravel under Viego's questionable leadership. Some of Viego's allies plot in secret to end their new king’s reign before it had begun. His nation’s enemies also see an opportunity to strike and send an assassin to slay him. During an assassination attempt, general Kalista was able to save the king's life but the assassin's blade poisons queen Isolde instead. With the kingdom's greatest priests and surgeons unable to remove the poison, the king dispatches Kalista to search for a cure and the Iron Order remain by the king's side in her absence. Kalista consults with multiple scholars, hermits and mystics throughout her journey but none could save the queen. She eventually discovers the existence of the Blessed Isles and the rumor that they may hold the secret to eternal life. She sets sail on one last voyage to the isles and, after much consideration, the island's inhabitants accept Kalista's request and asked her to bring the queen to the island, where they would cleanse her. They give her a special talisman that would allow her to part the island's mists but ask her to keep their secret.
While Kalista was away, the king's paranoia grows and he sends Hecarim and his knights to quell dissent within the kingdom. Hundreds are killed and many towns and villages are destroyed. Eventually the queen dies and Viego descends into madness, locking himself in his tower with the queen's corpse. Hecarim manipulates the king's grief to sanction invading foreign lands under the guise of avenging queen Isolde. But as they prepare to set sail, Kalista returns from her quest, only to find out she is too late. The king asks Kalista for what she has found, but upon seeing his mental state and remembering the promise she made with the people of the Blessed Isles , Kalista refuses to reveal what she has discovered and is imprisoned as a traitor. Eventually, at Hecarim's behest, she reveals what she has discovered and agrees to lead them to the isles.
The king and his army sail to the Blessed Isles and ask the island's masters to resurrect the queen. When the guardians refused, the king flew into a rage. He orders Kalista to kill anyone who opposes them and to ransack the city of Helia to find the cure. Kalista refuses the order and is stabbed by Hecarim before her forces clash with the Iron Order. A custodian later known as Thresh guides Viego to the waters of life while Hecarim and his knights pillage the city. The ritual was half-successful, resurrecting the queen as a wraith .
Isolde, in her pain, anger and confusion, takes Viego's enchanted blade and thrusts it through his heart. The magic of the waters and the ancient sword clash, and the chamber’s energy erupted, tearing across the Isles. Hecarim and his knights fuse with their steeds, becoming wraiths, as they try to flee to their ships. With the barrier between the material and spirit realms shattered, the souls of the dead were trapped in eternal torment within the coiling Black Mist, and the newly dubbed Shadow Isles was abandoned by all right-thinking mortals.
It is unknown how the civilization of the Kingdom of Camavor fared after the death of its king. Records of its existence were destroyed during the Rune Wars and, just like many other nations at the time, it is believed to have fallen into ruin.
Centuries later, the king of Camavor would eventually return home with the assistance of a Yordle ally. He would bring with him the fragments of the deceased queen's soul, divided across multiple fetters, and resurrect her to his side. Following him were two Sentinels of Light, Akshan and a Rookie. After being revived, Isolde rejected Viego after seeing the atrocities he had committed in order to bring her back. Prompted by the queen, Akshan killed her again, laying her to rest once more and reviving his allies. Infuriated, Viego lashed out against the Sentinels of Light, but was weakened with Isolde gone. Gwen would bind Viego with the Hallowed Mist and the king of Camavor would be imprisoned in the land he once ruled.
Alovédra was the capital city of Camavor and the seat of the Argent Throne.
Alshalana was a city within the Taskaros region of Camavor.
The Burning Valley was a vast steppe within Camavor Proper.
The Iron Keep was the fortress of the Iron Order, one of the Knightly Orders who have sworn fealty to the King of Camavor. The fortress was a half a day's ride on horseback from the capital, Alovédra, and the Order had protect the Argent Throne for centuries. Its last Knight-Commander was Hecarim .
Panthas was an estate situated on the southern shoreline of Camavor. It was renowned for its vineyards and fine wines. After the demise of its previous head with no heirs, the estate found final leadership in the lowborn, Captain Ledros , who was appointed by Viego as its baronet.
Polemia was a small city within the Taskaros region of Camavor. In the latter days of the kingdom, the city was burned to the ground as a result of feuds caused by a secession from the kingdom.
Port Takan stood as an independent city-state with a allegiance to Camavor and other nations on the continent. This bustling port thrived under the governance of a conglomerate of influential highlords. However, when an assassination attempt targeted Viego , the reigning monarch suspected Port Takan's involvement without concrete evidence or apparent motive. In response, Viego commanded Hecarim to besiege the city. Hecarim not only accomplished this task but also laid waste to all territories allied with Port Takan to the east.
Santoras was once an independent city-state who had a long standing allegiance to Camavor. It was subjugated by Viego under the pretense of reclaiming a Camavoran artifact, Mikael's Chalice . In this conflict, the city-state's last king, Agripos, was slain by Ledros . It was during the victory party within the city, that Isolde was hit with a poisoned black dagger.
Taskaros was a region in the far east of the Kingdom of Camavor. In the latter days of the kingdom, the region had seceded from the kingdom, declaring itself independent. This resulted in the burning of villages and the Knightly Orders native to that region to fight amongst themselves, reigniting blood feuds.
Zavala was a city to western shores of Camavor. It is the birthplace of Viego's mother, Lady Lianor.
Camavoran Dragon taken by the Black Mist
Winged, elemental-breathing reptiles that can reach near-giant sizes over their long, long lifespans, they are the indisputable ruler of the skies. Both fearsome and majestic, dragons have a society that revolves around strength and might and because of their egoistic and narcissistic pride, mixing their blood with that of races outside of dragonkind are seen as an abomination, a cancer that must be eradicated utterly. Many dragons persecute such defiled creations and their perpetrators to no end, a thing that Shyvana , the Half-Dragon, found out firsthand.
Camavoran dragons are long and serpent-like in appearance with many tail ends. The dragons of Camavor bound themselves to the royal family when Camor, the first king of Camavor, pleaded with Grandmother Viper, the progenitor of all Camavoran dragons, to lend her strength to his army and help him build his empire, in exchange for limitless riches. They sealed their pact with the oath of Vol Visperi-Desinvein, which roughly translates to "will of (old slur for dragons) and (old slur for humans)". [ 4 ] The dragons were fiercely loyal to the royal family, however, they refused to accompany Camavor's last king, Viego , on his ill-fated quest to the Blessed Isles. [ 5 ] After the departure of their king, Camavor fell into ruin and the dragons began to decline as well. Some of them may have wandered over to the Shadow Isles and were ruined by the surrounding Black Mist, turning them into monstrous wraiths. Smolder and his mother are among some of the last living dragons of Camavor.
Sanctity as seen on the cover of the Ruination novel
Sanctity, the Blade of the King , is a royal, magical weapon which has the ability to call upon the souls of kings to bring them back if wounded. It was first wielded by Camor, the first king of Camavor. The sword is considered the true symbol of the throne of Camavor as Sanctity is used to determine its next ruler. Heirs to the throne will attempt to bind their soul to the blade and if they survive the binding ritual, only then will they be crowned the ruler of Camavor. After being bound, the ruler of Camavor can manifest Sanctity at will. It has since been corrupted when its magic collided with the Waters of Life during the reign of Camavor's last king, Viego .
The Royal Line of Camavor
Camavor is a kingdom of aggressive conquerors ruled by the Vol Kalah Heigaari royal family.
Camavoran Soldiers taken by the Black Mist
The Camavoran military was one of the fiercest of its time, being able to wage wars beyond their lands. The military of Camavor consists of the Host and the many Knightly Orders. The Host is the primary army of Camavor, while the Knightly Orders provided additional military support. The Host is mostly comprised of lowborn citizens and has a lower status compared to the Knightly Orders. Highborn citizens preferred to join the Knightly Orders due to their greater wealth and prestige. The Knightly Orders have a strong questing culture and enjoy looting their enemies to fill their coffers. The Knightly Orders often pledge their service whenever a new monarch is corronated, as a sign of faith in their new ruler, but various orders have reneged on their promise or refused to pledge their service over the years. The armor they wore was ornate with feathery and draconic accents in their designs.
One of the most prominent knightly orders, the Iron Order was an elite group of soldiers tasked with protecting the King. They were the most powerful knightly order, in terms of political weight and military strength, during the reign of Camavor's last king. Lead by Knight-Commander Hecarim they were the soldiers that set sail with the King to the Blessed Isles . After the Ruination, they fused with their own riding horses becoming grotesque wraith abominations.
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands
Marai Village
Oovi-Kat Island
Constellations
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun · Volrachnun
Targon Prime
Void Realm · Multiverse
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Icathia is a lost city bordering Shurima in the southeast part of the Southern Continent.
A rebellious vassal-state of ancient Shurima, Icathia is now a barren and forbidding wasteland. And yet, amid the ruins, unspeakable horrors of the Void are beginning to stir once more...
Axamuk, the last of the Mage Kings, was the final ruler to fall before the Shuriman Sun Empress when she led her golden host of men and gods into the kingdom of Icathia. Icathia remained a vassal state controlled by Shurima for a thousand years, its people subjugated and enslaved. The ruins of their city's walls stood as a reminder to their defeat.
The Fall of Icathia
During the last days of Icathia, the once-noble warrior order of Kohari was rebuilt to retake the city. The city was filled with screams, as baying crowds chased down and murdered every Shuriman official they could find. Resentment for centuries of humiliating laws intended to eradicate Icathian culture—and brutal executions for breaking those laws—came to a head in one blood-filled day of violence. It did not matter that most of these people were merely scriveners, merchants and tithe-takers. All servants of the Sun-Emperor were killed.
Sun Disc effigies were pulled from rooftops and smashed by cheering crowds. Shuriman scriptwork was burned and their treasuries looted; the statues of dead emperors were desecrated.
A day after the massacre, an army of stonewrights, laborers and thaumaturges were hefting giant blocks of freshly hewn granite into place of the city's ruined walls with windlass mechanisms that crackled with magic. Ten thousand men and women were conscripted to defend the city, clad in armor of boiled leather and armed with axes, picks, and spears. Three blocks of deep-ranked infantry formed the bulk of their line. Shuriman corpses were impaled upon wooden stakes driven into the earth at its base, and flocks of carrion birds circled overhead. A silken pavilion of crimson and indigo had been raised at its summit. Robed priests surrounded it, each one weaving intricate patterns in the air with their star-metal staves.
The Sun Emperor turned his gaze upon the rebellious satrapy and marched east. His five armies consisted of tens of thousands of men, with riders on golden mounted chariots ahead of the army. Heavy wagons the size of river barques bore strange war-machines that resembled navigational astrolabes; spinning globes orbited by flaming spheres, bursting with crackling lightning. Robed priests came with them, each with a flame-topped staff and an entourage of blinded slaves. At the heart of the army were the god-warriors. Nine Ascended (among them Nasus , Aatrox , Ta'anari and Enakai) led by their leader Setaka, were armored in bronze and jade.
The battle was long and bloody. The Icathians would have been overrun by the Shuriman army's might and their god-warriors, if not for the combined power of their mages. What happened next sealed Icathia's fate. The pavilion exploded with forking traceries of light. Arcing loops of purple energy ripped into the sky and lashed down like crashing waves. The force of the blast threw everyone to the ground. The sky, once bright and blue, was now the color of a week-old bruise. Unnatural twilight held sway. A nightmarish light, sickly blue and ugly purple, smothered the world, pressing down from above and blooming up from somewhere far below.
An abyss that bled purple light tore open amid the Shurimans, and Setaka was overcome by whipping cords of matter. She fought to free herself with wild sweeps of her blade, but the power of the Void proved too much for her. The pulsing, glowing light spread over her body like a hideous cocoon. Slick coils rising from the earth, or from the very air itself, reached to seize the flesh of mortals. Men and women were swept up and enveloped, bodies dissolved as the tendrils of foul energy overwhelmed them.
At the end of the battle, the territory where Icathia once stood became a Void-taken wasteland from where the forces of the Void attacked every lifeform it encountered. The Shuriman Ascended fought against it for years; many god-warriors and even more mortals died at this war, but through the heroic actions of Horok, who found a way to end Void corruption by destroying the Void hearts found far below the ground, where unknowable, beastly horrors were hidden, the Ascended were able to seal the greatest rifts.
On a battle to seal an ocean rift on the eastern coast, Sypahx and Ta'anari fought for ten days and nights and were able to drive the Void back after the death of seven thousand Shuriman warriors upon the red shore. Only the Ascended heroes returned alive.
In the great battle to seal the Great Rift of Icathia, Sabeke and Sabake, twin raven Ascended, had their minds shattered with a glimpse of the Watchers. Even though those were some of the most affected, all the Sunborn (the Ascended who survived the war) lost something with that victory. Nightmarish memories of this war would haunt them and reinforce their fall into Darkin .
A great and terrible battle was fought against the Void before the walls of ancient Icathia. In the aftermath, the lands all around the damned city became deserted wastes, and its very existence was struck from the maps of Shurima. It was hoped, perhaps foolishly, that the horrors unleashed there would eventually be forgotten.
On the outskirts of Icathia lies the Rupture—evidence of the Void itself bursting forth from deep beneath the ground, in an age now lost to history. Though the bold and the curious alike have often sought to learn more, only the most foolhardy explorer would ever dare venture into the dark spaces beneath.
During ancient times, both of these nations had cultural ties with one another. Mages from Icathia such as Zilean went to study elemental magics in Ixtali cities such as Ixaocan . After the Void Rupture, the Ixtali Ascended Ne'Zuk constructed a giant superweapon known as the Monolith to combat the entities of the Void. The battle decimated Icathian lands, leaving visible scars upon the entire peninsula. From the rubble and shards of the fallen Monolith, Malphite rose.
The ancient Empire of Shurima once conquered Icathia by overthrowing its Mage King. Centuries later due to being frequently ignored and marginalized in the greater empire, Icathians rebelled in the hopes of regaining their independence. The result of this rebellion and the hubris of the mages of Icathia, the entire Icathian peninsula was destroyed and corrupted by the Void.
Discovering the Void Rupture near Saabera , Icathian mages were willing to use the power of the Void to combat the larger and stronger armies of Shurima. The result of their hubris ended up creating a Void Rupture in Icathia, spewing the energies of the Void across the entire peninsula. The few remaining survivors such as Jax and Zilean are gathering strength or searching for ways to combat this threat.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Like any place of myth, Mount Targon is a beacon to dreamers, madmen and questors of adventure. A mountainous and sparsely inhabited region to the west of Shurima , Targon boasts the tallest peak in Runeterra . Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is all but impossible to reach, save by the most determined pilgrims, chasing some soul-deep yearning to reach its summit. Those hardy few who survive the arduous journey to the foot of the titanic mountain find a sky shimmering with celestial bodies; the sun and moons, but also constellations, planets, fiery comets that streak the darkness, and auspicious arrangements of stars. They return haunted and empty, or changed beyond all recognition. The people living at the mountain's base believe these to be aspects of long-vanished stellar beings, creatures powerful and ancient on a scale beyond human comprehension. [ 1 ] However, Mount Targon is simply a way into the celestial realm , and it would be wrong to attribute much in the way of mortal sensibilities, morals or concerns to what lies beyond the mountain. [ 2 ]
Mount Targon is the mightiest peak in Runeterra , a towering peak of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker. Many legends cling to Mount Targon, and, like any place of myth, it is a beacon to dreamers, madmen and questors of adventure. Some of these brave souls attempt to scale the impossible mountain, perhaps seeking wisdom or enlightenment, perhaps chasing glory or some soul-deep yearning to witness its summit. The ascent is all but impossible, and those hardy few who somehow survive to reach the top almost never speak of what they have seen. Some return with a haunted, empty look in their eyes, others changed beyond all recognition, imbued by an aspect of unearthly, inhuman power with a destiny few mortals can comprehend.
The being known as Aurelion Sol was born in the first breath of creation, and he then roamed the physical realm , seeking to fill this canvas of incalculable breadth with marvels which would delight all who witnessed them.
Much later, around one of the first stars he had created, he discovered a world not made by him orbiting it. The Aspects , who seemed unusually invested in it, implored him to come closer. There was life here, and magic, and fledgling civilizations that cried out for guidance. Flattered, Aurelion Sol descended in the form of a dragon from the stars. The Targonians named him for the sun he had gifted them, and the Aspects commanded them to offer something in return. The mortals climbed to the peak of their tallest mountain, and presented him with a splendorous crown, crafted with careful and cunning magic, and etched with the inscrutable patterns of the celestial realm.
But it was no gift at all. The crown clamped in place too tightly to remove, and his knowledge of the sun began to drain through it, to be examined by mortals. Worse still, he was hurled back into the heavens, and prevented from getting any closer to that world. The Aspects of Targon set the mortals to construct a great Sun Disc . With this, they channeled his celestial power to raise up immortal god-warriors , for some future conflict.
Since its inception, Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disc, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians. At one point, Targon became a nation-state of the greater empire. The Targonian Aspects may have joined the empire in the war against the Void after the fall of Icathia . Some time after the empire was destroyed, the nation collapsed, and Targon once more withdrew.
Myisha , host of the Aspect of Twilight, leads panther Ascended Ta'anari to Nasus , who reveals the location of the Chalicar of Setaka, with which Ta'anari hopes to stop the civil war between Ascended. Ta'anari calls for a gathering of the Ascended. Enakai (Tiger), Syphax (Chameleon), Zigantus (Bull), Xuuyan (Turtle), Shabaka and Shabak (Raven twins), Valeeva (Unknown), Cebotaru (Wolf), and Naganeka (Snake) come to this gathering.
Ta'anari proposes that the next wielder of the Chalicar be recognised as Sivunas Alahair, one of Azir's remaining descendants. Xuuyan disagrees and tries to take the Chalicar by force. Ta'anari is forced to slay him by using Riftwalk . The other Darkin disagree with uniting. Ta'anari, with the aid of Myisha , uses the Chalicar to heal himself, and release an empowered form of Moonfalling which takes away the Ascended's forms and power.
Shabaka and Shabake arevaporized instantly by the Moonfall, with Syphax, Zigantus and Enakai dying a few moments later. Ta'anari ascension is also reverted. Myisha later removes his heart, killing him. Naganeka, Valeeva and Cebotaru manage to escape alive. Ta'anari's three warrior queens - Teushpa, Sulpae and Idri-Mi - are made responsible for having weapons to seal away the Darkin, with Myisha's tutelage.
Later, Myisha gives the mortals the knowledge to trap the remaining Darkin, while the newly reborn Aspect of War unites many in fighting back. The Darkin threats are eventually neutralized.
Over a millenia ago, as Zoe of the Lunari skips away from her studies to find something more fun to do, she is noticed by the Targonian Aspect of Twilight. It observes as the young girl mocks the priests chasing her. An hour later, she finds herself cornered by her angry teachers. The Aspect summons six objects: a bag of golden coins, a sword, a completed study book, a devotion rug, a silk rope, and a toy ball. Five of these objects would help her solve her problem. Zoe chooses the sixth option, kicking the ball and making it bounce between the priests. Delighted, the Aspect opens a portal to the apex of Mount Targon. Zoe dives into it , merging with the Aspect. Following this, Zoe travels to dimensions at the edge of Targon's control, playing within realities beyond mortal comprehension.
Conflicts arise between the two religious organizations of the region. The Solari defeat the Lunari and become the dominant group while condemning those who oppose them as heretics, hunting them down and destroying the evidence of their existence. The Lunari flee into hiding.
Diana , an outcast among the Solari acolytes who had always questioned their belief that the Sun is the only source of light, decides to ascend the mountain. Her concerned lover Leona follows to the peak, where they are chosen as the mortal hosts of the Aspects of the Sun ( Leona ) and the Moon ( Diana ). Frustrated with each other's choices on how to use their power, Diana almost kills Leona. Fearful of losing herself to the Aspect's power, Diana flees down the mountain to confront the Solari priests. They condemn her as a heretic, enraging Diana and the Aspect within, and she kills many priests and their guardians. She then flees, hoping to find her purpose. Meanwhile, Leona swears to find Diana, to preserve the dominance of the Solari, but also to help her keep her Aspect under control.
A few years later, the Rakkor warriors Atreus and his friend Pylas climb Mount Targon after Leona denies their pleas to fight invading barbarians. Atreus is the only one who survives the climb, becoming one with the Aspect of War, Pantheon. However, it judges him unworthy to fulfil its purposes and takes control of his body, relegating Atreus to the back of his own mind. Eventually, Pantheon was goaded into battle by the Darkin Aatrox . Against all expectations, Aatrox's blade kills Pantheon with a shattering blow, stars in the sky fading as it dies. Atreus awakes impaled upon Aatrox's blade, and spits in the darkin's face. Aatrox leaves the man to die. Atreus is nursed back to health by Pylas' widow, Iula. He realises that it was Aatrox who had sent the barbarians into Targon, and that mortals are seen as mere pawns in the games of higher powers. Atreus swears to oppose the greater powers that threaten the world as the Pantheon reborn.
Taric , a Demacia n exile, is sentenced to endure 'the Crown of Stone', after a ceremony that demanded a dishonored soldier ascend Mount Targon, known to all as a death sentence, as few mortals had ever survived the climb. And while the Crown of Stone was traditionally used by the dishonored to simply flee Demacia and make a new life in exile, Taric decided to actually atone for his mistake and set out for the towering spire of Mount Targon. The ascent nearly claimed him, body and soul, numerous times, but Taric pushed past the tests inflicted upon him by the mountain. As he approached the summit, Taric was challenged by a seemingly unending myriad of conflicting realities, each warped existence offering a new, horrifying vision, but he completed all of his trials. 'The Protector' was impressed by Taric's steadfast resolve, the otherworldly being deemed the fallen Demacian hero a worthy avatar, imbuing him with its ethereal powers. The Protector spoke of the truths Taric had known his entire life, and of the mantle that he had unknowingly been preparing for with every decision that brought him to the top of the mountain. As the Protector's whispers faded, Taric received a final warning: He would stand as the Shield of Valoran, but crashing against him would be a wave of howling madness, an ocean of gnashing teeth intent on consuming all, a squalid horror born of the Void . Reborn with power and purpose, Taric gladly accepted the seemingly impossible challenge and now dedicates himself to his sworn duty - as the steadfast guardian of an entire world.
Returning home after millennia, Zoe has aged barely a year. Though Runeterra has changed little from her perspective, she arrives full of teenage curiosity for humans and her fellow aspects.
Aphelios and his sister Alune .
The fortress accepted only one occupant, gifted in magic, each time it appeared. This time it would be Alune , her orbit guiding her to the temple. Aphelios, her twin brother, usually asking for nothing, requested to attend the event.
But somehow, the Lunari had been discovered even as the celestial cycles turned in their favor. An army of Solari descended upon them. All seemed lost, the Solari purging the Lunari heresy with fire and steel. Even Aphelios was beaten, his moonstone blades shattered on the ground.
But as the battle raged, Alune reached the heart of the temple. From inside, amplified by the temple's focusing power, Alune was able to project her magic anywhere, so long as it found a focus—like the noctum poison coursing through Aphelios' veins. Aphelios's skill and Alune's magic converged. With a whisper, she pushed magic into his hands—a replacement for his blades solidifying into moonstone.
Those Solari would not live to see the sun again.
As her power flared, Alune pushed the temple, and herself within, back into the spirit realm where it would remain safe from the Solari.
Aphelios would become a conduit for the moon's power, constantly in pain due to the noctum poison. Alune would live alone, isolated in her fortress, but she would guide her brother.
To protect the survivors of the attack who retreated back into the shadows of the mountain, Aphelios' training as an assassin has been given reach by Alune's magic—his blades now an arsenal of mystical weapons, perfected by Alune over the course of many missions together.
Now that the power balance of Targon is shifting, and the Solari know the Lunari still endure, Aphelios and Alune are needed more than ever.
Pantheon awaiting Aurelion Sol's arrival
When witnessing the rise and fall of the God-Warriors , Aurelion Sol slowly accepted his fate. But soon after, the world was ravaged by a succession of sorcerous catastrophes, and Aurelion Sol finally knew that Targon and the hated Aspects were all but defenseless. As he cautiously circled back, he realized the magic that bound him was weakening. Flecks of gold began to fall from his crown, each one blazing across the skies like a comet.
Driven by the tantalizing possibilities of freedom and revenge, Aurelion Sol now regards Runeterra with simmering, eternal fury. Surely, it is here, upon this world, that the cosmic balance will tip in his favor once more—and with it, the universe itself shall bear witness to the fate of those who dare steal the power of a star forger.
Mount Targon is a nation in the Western part of the Shuriman Continent and boarders with Shurima . The currently well known locations encompassing Mount Targon are:
Mount Targon is a mountain found in the Western part of the Shuriman Continent and borders with Shurima . Located far from civilization, Mount Targon is utterly remote and all but impossible to reach save by the most determined seeker. It is highest and mightiest peak in Runeterra, a towering mountain of sun-baked rock amid a range of summits unmatched in scale anywhere else in the world. It is the site of many sacred pilgrimages.
Mount Targon can be broken into distinct regions, as delineated by patterns in the rock and a marked increase in hazardous weather conditions, difficulty of the climb, and increased death rate. The upper levels of the mountain expand and contract as if the land itself were alive, making it impossible to map a reliable pathway to the top. Each ascent is different, as the mountain magically stretches–some climbs can last for months while others reach the peak in just a day. Its rocky heights have been twisted and elongated, some say drawn upward, by powers beyond mortal comprehension.
Living in the shadow of cyclopean structures of monumental scale, the Rakkor believe they were called to the mountain by mysterious powers. Some believe that the patterns in the rock were once a map of the realms beyond the heavens. Others say the markings warn of a day when a great war will ravage the lands and set brother against brother. Despite such speculation, the true origin and purpose of these patterns in the rock remains a mystery.
Known troughout Runeterra as the City of Gold and Silver. Targon Prime is a realm beyond Runeterra where celestial beings known as Aspects and mythical creatures of the stars resides. Each generation or so, an Aspect will descend from Targon Prime to imbue these mortals on which they deemed worthy to become their vessel. It is a vast realm bathed in golden light at day and sparkling stars at night. Currently Kayle set out for this realm to know if what really happened to their mother Mihira. Sometimes the reason for these Targonian Ascended's disappearances can be linked to Targon Prime on which deceased aspect vessels are now a part of the great council planning to build an army of powerful human-celestial mieldings against the unknowable nothingness .
Mount Targon hosts an assortment of hardy creatures; for instance: Bolors, Erboks, Ibiks, Tamu, etc.
Animals of the mountain are uniquely primed to survive under the coldest weather conditions, with thick layers of fat and wooly furs to insulate from bitter winds and snow. Cloven hooves provide support on steep slopes and narrow footholds, while hooked claws easily latch onto ice.
The bolor are large quadrupedal avian carnivores. Standing at the height of two average humans (three if placed standing upwards), these creatures sport a thick feathery coat that protects them from the harsh environments of Mount Targon as well as camouflage themselves in the snowy environment. These feathers are mostly white with brown ones primarily located around the head and neck areas. Their talons and beaks are of a dark blue color and used for climbing and hunting.
Famous for the trilling cry it emits before swooping for a kill, the predatory bolor moves in long, gliding leaps along thermal currents with aerodynamic feathered limbs, and loves to prey on stray tamu.
The erbok are large quadrupedal mammalian herbivores. Unique to the lands surrounding Mount Targon, these species of mountain goat stand at the height of two average humans. These creatures sport thick coats that protect them from the harsh environments of the mountain. The mane of the cave-dwelling erbok is coated in a thick oil that the Rakkor use to cover their outer garments, making them waterproof. Their mane and their tail are of a tan colour while the softer coat on the rest of their body is of a brighter shade of tan. They have large hooves and a bone-plate that extends to form a horn. The erbok use the bone-plate on their head in territorial duels over mountain caves.
Zoe's scarf is knitted from the wool of an Erbok.
The ibik is a rare solitary quadrupedal mammalian herbivores that dwell in the lower plains of Mount Targon. Standing at the height of three average humans (five if placed standing upwards), these creatures are some of the largest found at the slopes of the mountain. During the winter months, the ibik is often covered by snowfall as it hibernates, and its rough, slate-colored skin and fur help disguise it amongst the boulders. They have large slanted horns used to protect themselves against other predators. Most adult ibik have numerous scars on their backs due to surviving predatory attacks from creatures such as the bolor.
Targonians use this creature for their milk. Its sweet fatty milk is a delicacy to the Rakkor.
The embodiment of wispy firelight, the Lightcharger can be seen soaring across the skies of Targon as dusk turns to night. It bathes in the moon's most radiant glow, galloping nobly from east to west and protecting the world from the eternal darkness.
Stellacorn are unicorn-like creatures live near Mount Targon . Young ones live near the peak of the mountain, taken care by Star Shepherds.
Grown Stellacorn use their wings soar the sky. When they flying, most people would think they are moving stars.
It is considered lucky to see and know the Stellacorn and even luckier to grow one. This is mentioned in the flavor text of the Legends of Runeterra card. [ 3 ]
Tamu are a quadrupedal mammalian herbivores that mostly dwell in the lower plains of Mount Targon. These creatures are intelligent and are raised by tribes in vast flocks. Shepherds herd their flocks to graze on the slopes during the hotter seasons. They are also able to traverse narrow cliff sides and climb mountain areas.
Their manes are of a white color, while the rest of their coat is different shades of brown and tan. These lush coats are sheared bi-yearly and woven into warm clothing and other textiles by the Rakkor.
Demacia has had a long reverence for Mount Targon itself. 'The Crown of Stone', is a ceremony that demanded a dishonored soldier ascend Mount Targon. Known to all as a death sentence, few mortals had ever survived the climb.
And while the Crown of Stone was traditionally used by the dishonored to simply flee Demacia and make a new life in exile, Taric decided to actually atone for his mistake and set out for the towering spire of Mount Targon, later successfully becoming the Aspect of Protection. Both Kayle and Morgana are two Ascended who hail from Mount Targon but have made historical and cultural mark upon the nation since its inception.
Ixtali culture is part of an older great westward diaspora that gave the rise of civilizations such as the ascetics of Mount Targon. It is likely Ixtali played a significant role in the creation of the first Ascended .
Since its inception Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disk, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians.
During the Darkin War Targonian Aspects aided Shurima with both stopping and imprisoning all of warring Darkin of that time.
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
Darkin are corrupted God-Warriors who were traumatized by the horrors of the Void War as well as self infliction by the use of blood magic. Currently, all known Darkin have been imprisoned in weapons, unable to ever regain their original Ascended forms.
The Darkin are believed to be a collection of sentient weapons by Eduard Santangelo [ 1 ] and the Shadow Order . In truth, the Darkin are corrupted Ascended who were imprisoned within their own weapons.
The nature of their corruption is implied to be self-inflicted after the mental scar left from the horrors of countless wars and those witnessed in the Void War. The death of Azir and the subsequent fall of Shurima were the final catalysts that led to them turning their backs to the world they had once swore to protect.
Without an emperor to command them, the Darkin felt forgotten and were left purposeless. They believed themselves to the rightful inheritors of the world and enslaved many races, forcing them to worship them. The Darkin used their knowledge of blood magic to augment their flesh and weapons until they were unrecognizeable from the noble warriors they had once been. The Darkin and their armies would clash with one another, leading to the Great Darkin War .
The Aspects would eventually intervene and aid the mortals in Lua error in Module:LoRData at line 649: attempt to call field 'findCardsByName' (a nil value). the Darkin within their own weapons and scattering them across Runeterra, ending the Darkin War. In the centuries since, a handful of these weapons have been recovered by the ignorant and the ambitious alike. More recently, the Darkin have begun to stir and seek out vessels to free them from their prisons.
The Darkin began their story as revered human warriors of Ancient Shurima, Ascended into serving against the threat from the threshold . After finally halting the Void's perverse incursion, the surviving Ascended entitled themselves as "Sunborn" , the first witnesses of a dawn of peace they brought to a now safe world.
Centuries after an age of war with the Void, despite their divine makeup, their minds remained as fragile as the mortals they once were. When the light of Shurima finally left the world, many of the immortal Ascended found themselves lost. With no emperor to lead them, these “darkin” eventually fell to warring among their own kind—and the peoples of Runeterra were caught in the middle. The ceaseless warring and the horrors they witnessed slowly took their toll, leading them to fight over who was worthy of taking over the world that forgot them. This started the War of the Sunborn , known better to the world as the Darkin War .
The laws of mortal life held little meaning for the darkin. Over the centuries, they mastered many forbidden forms of primal magic, crafting their own flesh and armor with equal ease, until they were completely unrecognizable as the noble warriors they had once been.
During the Darkin War depictions of the self-corrupted Sunborn, now known as Darkin, as already having a demonic appearance—the result of using blood magic, fueled with each mortal and Darkin life they took, to reshape their own bodies and armor and meld them as one.
Toward the end of the Darkin War, the Darkin were imprisoned within their own weapons and wielded against their brethren until all who remained were likewise trapped. Those who wielded a Darkin weapon would gain a portion of their power, but through a vessel was also the only avenue through which a Darkin could gain a mockery of freedom. Even when able to wrest absolute control of a body, the power of a Darkin is too much for any mortal body to contain - condemning the Darkin to a fate of constantly harvesting life force, eventually completely depleting the mortal's energy and being forced to seek another vessel, lest they be rendered inanimate once more.
To date, a golden-armored warrior queen is the only being known to have held a Darkin and not succumbed to its will. That said, her final act after dispatching all other Darkin was to trap herself and the Darkin Bow within a well in Pallas, condemning herself but denying the Darkin freedom as well.
When an Ascended is created, a celestial concept merges with a mortal host body and grants them ascended power. When a Darkin is sealed, that concept is trapped or deleted. The ideal that they represented ceases to exist and it becomes indistinguishable what the Darkin was once the avatar of. [ 2 ]
From the moment a darkin weapon chooses a vessel, that mortal will find themselves compelled by a power they can scarcely hope to master—no matter what seductive whispers they might hear in their mind. That power will soon take root in flesh and bone, reshaping them into a new, monstrous amalgam. At the early stages of a darkin infestation, the corruption can be reverted with minimal contact with the weapon, but the darkin will try to entice their host to wield them.
The weapon's wielder and any Darkin trapped within seem to enter a symbiotic relationship, the wielder gaining a portion of the Darkin's power and the Darkin in turn gain some agency and a venue of freedom. However, the Darkin can parasitically dominate their wielder, thereby annihilating the wielder's personality while in turn freely affirming their agency; similarly, the wielder can extirpate the Darkin's persona to gain full access to the weapon's power. In both cases, the dominated other is described as "dying".
Though the darkin's hunger for vengeance is inhuman and eternal, they must overcome the limitations of their new form if they are ever to sate it. Memories of who they once were, what they aspired to be, and what they have become, all now blur together in their flawed, mortal minds.
Aatrox usurped his wielder long ago. Rhaast actively seeks to gain control over Kayn's body. Varus has yet to fully take control of both Valmar and Kai in their tri-symbiotic existence.
Kayn asserts that Rhaast will die if Kayn "lets go" of the scythe, while it is implied the Darkin's power is lost if they are killed in this fashion. However, Kayn's statement may simply imply that Rhaast will suffer, much like other known Darkin, complete immobility and sensory deprivation until another takes up the scythe. According to Aatrox, this is a fate far worse than death, for the Darkin remains conscious for the full length of their imprisonment.
Due to the events of the Darkin Saga are not canon, [ 3 ] the hosts listed for the Darkin from Legends of Runeterra (All Darkin except Aatrox, Naafiri, Rhaast and Varus) are all theoretical and based on what happens in the context of the expansion.
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
Bandle Gunners · Bandle Scouts
Boatman · Buhru · Harpooners · Jagged Hooks · Syrens
The Knightly Orders · The Iron Order · Vol Kalah Heigaari Royal Family
Buvelle House · Crownguard House · Dauntless Vanguard · Demacian Rangers · Dragonguard · Durand House · Illuminators · Laurent House · Lightshield House · Mageseekers · Spiritmight House · Vayne House · Rebels of Zeffira
Avarosan · Black-Clads · Broken Tooth · Chosen Children · Draklorn · Ebrataal · Frostguard · Frost-Trolls · Hearthblood · Ice Children · Ice Veins · Mourncrow · Notai · Red Snow · Snow Followers · Stonepicks · Stone Tooth · Tryndamere · Tusk Crow · Ursine · Vargkin · Winter's Claw
Council · Kohari
Hirana Order · Houhjo · Kinkou Order · Navori Brotherhood · Shadow Order · Shojin Order · Wuju Order · Zhyun
Yun Tal · Colleges of Magic
Arcane Fist · Black Rose · Bloodrunners · Crimson Circle · Darkwill House · Du Couteau House · First Legion · Fury Company · Kythera House · Mordekaiser · Reckoners · Redblades · Swain House · Tallymen · Trifarian Legion · Trifarix · Warmasons Order · Zaavan House
Arvino Clan · Cadwalder Clan · Ferros Clan · Giopara Clan · Holloran Clan · Kiramman Clan · Kozari Clan · Medarda Clan · Morichi Clan · Piltovan Bureau of Safety Inspections · Piltover Explorers Guild · Piltover Wardens · Torek Clan
Black Mist · Ruined King
Rulers of Shurima · Bel'zhun Suns · Disciples Of The Armordillo · Shakkal Raiders ·
Aspects · Lunari · Rakkor · Solari
Prophet Followers · Watchers
Academy of Techmaturgy · Chem-Barons · Glasc Industries · Chem-Jacks · Chem-Punks · Chem-Thugs · Sump-Scrappers · The Sons of Ur · Vigilnauts
Arbormark · Aurma · Kalstead · Kathkan · Nockmirch · Skaggorn · Tokogol
Boleham · Harelport · Holdrum · Kumangra · Kalstead · Mudtown · Nazumah · Palclyff · Paretha · Stonewall
Crew of the Charming Lady · Sentinels of Light
The umbrella term Celestial refers to all the beings that originate from the Celestial Realm beyond Runeterra .
Among the first beings that came to be in the universe (the "Realm of Creation"), they are alien in comparison to the physical and spiritual realms . These beings come in various forms. From the Aspects as representations of concepts and ideals, to the numerous beings such as Celestial Dragons that interact with the world of Runeterra with motives far beyond mortal understanding.
A race of enigmatic beings wielding powers that are said to be godlike, Celestials are the universe's creators, protectors, and caretakers, seeding and influencing the tide of the world's past, present and future towards the greater good. Some interfere directly, as with the case of Soraka's crusade of healing and restoration, while others choose to contribute as a hidden hand, as is Bard's way to protect the multiverse from falling to destruction. Most of them are revered as powerful deities or guardians but they share the same mystery and bond with the heavenly firmaments. A few have been named and identified by the people of Runeterra: Aurelion Sol , Soraka and Bard .
Born in the first breath of creation, Aurelion Sol roamed the vast nothingness of the cosmos , gracing it with his wonders. A celestial dragon is an exotic creature, and as such, Aurelion Sol seldom encountered any equals. As more forms of life emerged to fill the universe, a multitude of primitive eyes gazed up and beheld his work with wonder and breathless pondering. Flattered by this audience of countless worlds, he became fascinated by their fledgling civilizations, who crafted amusingly self-centered philosophies on the nature of his stars. One such ambitious species to catch the attention of the dragon were the Runeterran Targonians.
Amazed by the spectacles which the Cosmic Being performed before their very eyes, the Targonians titled the dragon Aurelion Sol and presented him with a gift as a token of respect: a splendorous crown of star-gems, which he promptly donned. Before long, though, boredom drew Aurelion Sol back to his work in the fertile vastness of space. However, the further from the reach of that tiny world he traveled, the more he felt a grasping at his very essence, pulling him off his path, directing him elsewhere! He could hear voices shouting, commanding, from across the cosmic expanse. The gift he'd received was no gift at all.
Pantheon awaiting Aurelion Sol's arrival
Outraged, he fought these controlling impulses and attempted to break his bonds by force, only to discover that for each attack against his newfound masters, one of his stars vanished forever from the firmament. A powerful magic now yoked Aurelion Sol, forcing him to wield his powers exclusively for Targon's benefit. He battled chitinous beasts that tore at the fabric of this universe. He clashed with other cosmic entities, some of which he had known since the dawn of time. For millennia, he fought Targon's wars, crushed any threats to its dominance, and helped it forge a star-spanning empire.
As his past glories slowly vanished from the celestial realm for lack of maintenance, Aurelion Sol resigned himself to never again bask in the warmth of a freshly ignited star. Then, he felt it - a weakening in his unwilling pact. The voices from the crown grew sporadic, clashing, arguing with each other while some fell ominously silent. An unknown catastrophe he could not fathom had thrown off the balance of those who bound him. They were scattered and distracted. Hope crept into his heart.
Driven by the tantalizing possibility of impending freedom, Aurelion Sol arrives on the world where it all began: Runeterra. It is here the balance will finally tip in his favor. And with it, civilizations across the stars shall bear witness to his rebellion and again play audience to his might. All will learn what fate befalls those who strive to steal for themselves the power of a cosmic dragon.
Ascended · Brackern · Celestial · Dragon · Golem · Human · Minotaur · Spirit · Titan † · Troll · Undead · Vastaya · Vastayashai'rei † · Voidborn · Watcher · Yeti
Azurite Eagle · Bubble Bear · Cat · Chirean · Coral Creature · Dredge Dredger · Fish Folk · Molediver · Pengu · Plague Rat · Poro · Shellshocker · Squill · Vellox · Whump
Aspect Host · Baccai · Darkin · God-Warrior
Aspect · Celestial Dragon
Celestial Dragon · Terrestrial Dragon
Demon · Faerie · Fae Fawn · Luonn Kon · Naga · Nixie · Spirit God · Treant · Yordle
Revenant · Wraith
Besheb · Canghapi · Chyra · Fauhwoon · Juloah · Lhotlan · Khonlui · Kepthalla · Kiilash · Makara · Marai · Ophelis · Ottrani · Oovi-Kat · Raylu · Shimon · Skard · Sodjoko · Strig · Vesani · Vlotah
Abyssal Eye · Antlermouse · Argoth · Aurma Fish · Badgerbear · Bahrl Jay · Balestrider · Bawkatrice · Bellswayer · Bolbo · Bolor · Cat · Celestial · Clam · Cloud Drinker · Crag Beast · Crow · Dragon · Drakalops · Drüvask · Dunpor · Dormun · Eka'Sul · Elephant · Elmark · Elnük · Erbok · Fleetfeather · Four-eyed Hammerhead Shark · Frog · Furyhorn · Giant Crab · Giant Squid · Gigalodon · Golden Narwhal · Golem · Greathorn · Grellfeen · Hawk · Hushtail · Hooked Grouse · Ibex · Ibik · Ironback · Jaull-fish · Kmiros · Kraken · Kumangra Parrot · Lightcharger · Mwatis · Ocklepod · Octopus · Paddlemar · Platewyrm · Plundercrab · Powder Monkey · Protector · Ralsiji · Raptor · Rat · Raven · Sandswimmer · Scaled Snapper · Scuttle Crab · Sea Horse · Sea Serpent · Seagull · Shagyak · Shuriman Camel · Silverwing · Skallashi · Snow Hare · Spider · Spirit · Stellacorn · Stone-scale Viper · Stonehorn · Tamu · Targonian Mountain Goat · Tuskvore · Voidborn · Vulkodalk · Waverider · Whump · Wildclaw · Windfarer · Wing-Eared Devour · Wolf · Wolfseal · Worax · Yellow Crab · Zeeble
Meep · Sparklefly
Basilisk · Drake-Hound · Wyvern
Mammoth · Tuskbeast
Krug · Sentinel
Light Vindoran Horse
Gutter Rat · Plague Rat · Wharf Rat
Spiderling · Vilemaw
Brambleback · Fuemigo · River Sprite
Xer'Sai · Voidgrub
Dog · Gray Wolf · Murk Wolf · Rimefang Wolf
Blast Cone · Blue Stargazer · Calasa · Cavernberry · Citrus · Daisy · Duskpetal · Freljordian Grain · Grass · Honeyfruit · Kiwa · Lilie · Lotus · Medicila Elasticas · Mushroom · Naap · Night-Blooming Zychid · Nightbloom · Nirpooti · Parethan Corpse Tulip · Pearl of the Moon · Petricite Tree · Poppy · Raikkon Berry · Rose · Scryer's Bloom · Serpentleaf · Spirit · Sun Apple Tree · Tola Vine · Vlonqo Flower · Xaolan Tree
Bilge Bitter · Demacian Tangor · Ionian Citrus Fruit · Noxian Orange · Piltover Shaddock · Shadow Citrus
Kraken Lilie · Lighted Lilie
Puffcap · Stingsalve Fungus
Spirit Tree
Bantha · Chicken · Firelight · Forest Chameleon · Manatee · Porowl · Yonkeies · Unnamed Species
These species were only mentioned, but were never elaborated on. Carnotaun · Cougar · Croxagor · Devilfish · Grelmorn · Lippertick Apple · Mewlark · Razorhide · Rhoksha · Salamander Dew · Unnamed Species
These alterations are characteristics that multiple different species can have. Chemical Alteration · Cyborg · Iceborn · Magical · Magical Alteration · Void Touched
The Spirit Realm , or Spirit World , is a parallel pocket of existence to the Physical Realm and the Celestial Realm . It is strongly connected to the physical planet of Runeterra . It is the home and origin place of the Spirits . While most (if not all) spirits seem to cross easily to the physical realm, mortals can only visit the spirit realm while in death or having powerful spiritual prowess .
Very little is known about the spirit world, usually through tales and myths. These myths describe this realm as a place where time and space function differently from the physical realm. The Spirit World seems to be separated into smaller regions or "realms".
The Spirit Realm, the Physical Realm, and the Celestial Realm all toghether form the so-called "Realm of Creation". Beyond the Realm of Creation (or seemingly below it) is the Void , the "Realm of Nothingness".
In Bandle City, it is said that every sensation is heightened for non-yordles. Colors are brighter. Food and drink intoxicate the senses for years and, once tasted, will never be forgotten. People tell that it is a place of unfettered magic, where the foolhardy can be led astray by myriad wonders, and end up lost in a dream... The sunlight is eternally golden, the waters crystal clear, and every harvest brings a fruitful bounty. Perhaps some of these claims are true, or maybe none—for no two tale-tellers ever seem to agree on what they actually saw.
The material realm is linked to this enchanted place in the spirit realm. The pathways are rarely seen by mortals, for they only open under particular circumstances, or for those with the ability to read and interpret the language of the yordles. Certain portals can only be opened with a series of specific gestures, often defined by peculiar symbols inscribed nearby. Some portals open to a deep cavern, when the low tide reveals a pattern of runic circles, filling the indentations with sea water.
The doorways between realms are finicky and seldom open, even to creatures as dexterous as cats such as Yuumi . Yordles would have to wait for days for the eastern star to align with a particular stone archway, or waded impatiently between marsh-lilies, seeking a silver blossom blooming from the mud—only then would a pathway appear.
Mordekaiser's reign in the Death Realm
The Death Realm is the afterlife where the souls of the deceased go after death. This realm is built from the various beliefs of Runeterrans, its infinite landscapes shifting endlessly across multiple different cultures according to their beliefs.
The Iron Revenant came here after dying and refusing to fade into nothingness, built an empire called Mitna Rachnun where he reigns. This place seems to be connected to the Immortal Bastion on Noxus .
The Ionians have their own version of the Death Realm, visualized through the myth The Path . Here, a foxlike spirit will guide you after death to your afterlife playing a chase game. You may deviate from your path, but the spirit will not intervene.
The barrier between Ionia and the spirit realm is so thin that the deceased can come back for one day during the Spirit Blossom festivities.
In the Freljord , followers of the Wolf call it the Great Beyond, they believe that in death they join the spirits of other fallen shamans and begin their journey through the Great Beyond as a new pack.
Marus Omegnum is a Lunari temple fortress located for the majority of the time inside the spirit realm. During special lunar events, the temple phases into the physical realm and shows up on Mount Targon . Alune resides in this fortress within the Spirit Realm.
The Glade is a hidden area inside the spirit realm. It is told it was a place stranger still—it existed long before yordles came into the world, and it was perhaps from the Glade that Bandle City itself sprung. A place of raw primordial magic, it was hidden away so deeply that no yordle had ever found it until Lulu was guided there.
